DESCRIPTION Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP are oral antihyperglycemic drugs used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C 4 H 11 N 5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of Metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of Metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP contains 500 mg , 850 mg , or 1000 mg of Metformin hydrochloride .
Each tablet contains the inactive ingredients povidone ( K - 30 ) , povidone ( K - 90 ) , pregelatinized starch , and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the coating for the tablets contains artificial blackberry flavor , hypromellose and polyethylene glycol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , Metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With Metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability The absolute bioavailability of a Metformin Hydrochloride 500 mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 % to 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of Metformin Hydrochloride 500 mg to 1500 mg , and 850 mg to 2550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Food decreases the extent of and slightly delays the absorption of Metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak plasma concentration ( C max ) , a 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 - minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( T max ) following administration of a single 850 mg tablet of Metformin with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
The clinical relevance of these decreases is unknown .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of Metformin following single oral doses of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , steady state plasma concentrations of Metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally < 1 mcg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , maximum Metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 mcg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Elimination Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of Metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single - or multiple - dose pharmacokinetics of Metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) , nor is there any accumulation of Metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
Renal Insufficiency In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of Metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency No pharmacokinetic studies of Metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of Metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and C max is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in Metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ) .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Table 1 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP Subject Groups : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets dosea ( number of subjects ) C maxb ( mcg / mL ) T maxc ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderlyf , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CL crg 61 to 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CL cr 31 to 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CL cr 10 to 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration c Time to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 to 59 years ) e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 to 81 years ) g CL cr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m 2 Pediatrics After administration of a single oral Metformin Hydrochloride 500 mg tablet with food , geometric mean Metformin C max and AUC differed less than 5 % between pediatric type 2 diabetic patients ( 12 to 16 years of age ) and gender - and weight - matched healthy adults ( 20 to 45 years of age ) , all with normal renal function .
Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP was comparable in males and females .
Race No studies of Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS USP In a double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter U . S . clinical trial involving obese patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia was not adequately controlled with dietary management alone ( baseline fasting plasma glucose [ FPG ] of approximately 240 mg / dL ) , treatment with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ( up to 2550 mg / day ) for 29 weeks resulted in significant mean net reductions in fasting and postprandial plasma glucose ( PPG ) and hemoglobin A 1 c ( HbA 1 c ) of 59 mg / dL , 83 mg / dL , and 1 . 8 % , respectively , compared to the placebo group ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets vs Placebo Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Fasting Plasma Glucose , HbA 1 c , and Body Weight , at Final Visit ( 29 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo p – Value ( n = 141 ) ( n = 145 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline 241 . 5 237 . 7 NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT - 53 6 . 3 0 . 001 Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 4 8 . 2 NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT - 1 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs ) Baseline 201 206 NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT - 1 . 4 - 2 . 4 NS ** * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline ** Not statistically significant A 29 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and glyburide , alone and in combination , was conducted in obese patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve adequate glycemic control while on maximum doses of glyburide ( baseline FPG of approximately 250 mg / dL ) ( see Table 3 ) .
Patients randomized to the combination arm started therapy with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg .
At the end of each week of the first four weeks of the trial , these patients had their dosages of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP increased by 500 mg if they had failed to reach target fasting plasma glucose .
After week four , such dosage adjustments were made monthly , although no patient was allowed to exceed Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 2500 mg .
Patients in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP only arm ( Metformin plus placebo ) followed the same titration schedule .
At the end of the trial , approximately 70 % of the patients in the combination group were taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 2000 mg / glyburide 20 mg or Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 2500 mg / glyburide 20 mg .
Patients randomized to continue on glyburide experienced worsening of glycemic control , with mean increases in FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c of 14 mg / dL , 3 mg / dL , and 0 . 2 % , respectively .
In contrast , those randomized to Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ( up to 2500 mg / day ) experienced a slight improvement , with mean reductions in FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c of 1 mg / dL , 6 mg / dL , and 0 . 4 % , respectively .
The combination of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and glyburide was effective in reducing FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c levels by 63 mg / dL , 65 mg / dL , and 1 . 7 % , respectively .
Compared to results of glyburide treatment alone , the net differences with combination treatment were - 77 mg / dL , - 68 mg / dL , and - 1 . 9 % , respectively ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Combined Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / Glyburide ( Comb ) vs Glyburide ( Glyb ) or Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( MET ) Monotherapy : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Fasting Plasma Glucose , HbA 1 c , and Body Weight , at Final Visit ( 29 - week study ) Comb ( n = 213 ) Glyb ( n = 209 ) MET ( n = 210 ) p - values Glyb vs Comb MET vs Comb Glyb Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline 250 . 5 247 . 5 253 . 9 NS ** NS ** NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT - 63 . 5 13 . 7 - 0 . 9 0 . 001 0 . 001 0 . 025 Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 8 8 . 5 8 . 9 NS ** NS ** 0 . 007 Change at FINAL VISIT - 1 . 7 0 . 2 - 0 . 4 0 . 001 0 . 001 0 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs ) Baseline 202 . 2 203 204 NS ** NS ** NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 9 - 0 . 7 - 8 . 4 0 . 011 0 . 001 0 . 001 * All patients on glyburide , 20 mg / day , at Baseline ** Not statistically significant The magnitude of the decline in fasting blood glucose concentration following the institution of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy was proportional to the level of fasting hyperglycemia .
Patients with type 2 diabetes with higher fasting glucose concentrations experienced greater declines in plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin .
In clinical studies , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , alone or in combination with a sulfonylurea , lowered mean fasting serum triglycerides , total cholesterol , and LDL cholesterol levels and had no adverse effects on other lipid levels ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Summary of Mean Percent Change From Baseline of Major Serum Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 29 - week studies Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets vs Placebo Combined Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / Glyburide vs Monotherapy Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / Glyburide Glyburide ( n = 141 ) ( n = 145 ) ( n = 210 ) ( n = 213 ) ( n = 209 ) Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline 211 212 . 3 213 . 1 215 . 6 219 . 6 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT - 5 % 1 % - 2 % - 4 % 1 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) Baseline 236 . 1 203 . 5 242 . 5 215 266 . 1 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT - 16 % 1 % - 3 % - 8 % 4 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline 135 . 4 138 . 5 134 . 3 136 137 . 5 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT - 8 % 1 % - 4 % - 6 % 3 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline 39 40 . 5 37 . 2 39 37 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 2 % - 1 % 5 % 3 % 1 % In contrast to sulfonylureas , body weight of individuals on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP tended to remain stable or even decrease somewhat ( see Tables 2 and 3 ) .
A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to achieve adequate glycemic control on insulin alone ( see Table 5 ) .
Patients randomized to receive Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin achieved a reduction in HbA 1 c of 2 . 10 % , compared to a 1 . 56 % reduction in HbA 1 c achieved by insulin plus placebo .
The improvement in glycemic control was achieved at the final study visit with 16 % less insulin , 93 . 0 U / day vs 110 . 6 U / day , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo , respectively , p = 0 . 04 .
Table 5 : Combined Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / Insulin vs Placebo / Insulin Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA 1 c and Daily Insulin Dose Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / Insulin ( n = 26 ) Placebo / Insulin ( n = 28 ) Treatment difference Mean ± SE Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) Baseline 8 . 95 9 . 32 Change at FINAL VISIT - 2 . 1 - 1 . 56 - 0 . 54 ± 0 . 43 a Insulin Dose ( U / day ) Baseline 93 . 12 94 . 64 Change at FINAL VISIT - 0 . 15 15 . 93 - 16 . 08 ± 7 . 77 b a Statistically significant using analysis of covariance with baseline as covariate ( p = 0 . 04 ) Not significant using analysis of variance ( Values shown in table ) b Statistically significant for insulin ( p = 0 . 04 ) A second double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( n = 51 ) , with 16 weeks of randomized treatment , demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes controlled on insulin for 8 weeks with an average HbA 1 c of 7 . 46 ± 0 . 97 % , the addition of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP maintained similar glycemic control ( HbA 1 c 7 . 15 ± 0 . 61 versus 6 . 97 ± 0 . 62 for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , respectively ) with 19 % less insulin versus baseline ( reduction of 23 . 68 ± 30 . 22 versus an increase of 0 . 43 ± 25 . 20 units for Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , p < 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study demonstrated that the combination of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP plus insulin resulted in reduction in body weight of 3 . 11 ± 4 . 30 lbs , compared to an increase of 1 . 30 ± 6 . 08 lbs for placebo plus insulin , p = 0 . 01 .
A 24 - week , double - blind , randomized study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , taken twice daily ( with breakfast and evening meal ) , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had been treated with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg twice daily for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry .
The Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP dose had not necessarily been titrated to achieve a specific level of glycemic control prior to study entry .
Patients qualified for the study if HbA 1 c was ≤ 8 . 5 % and FPG was ≤ 200 mg / dL .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in HbA 1 c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , and Body Weight at Week 12 and at Final Visit ( 24 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg Twice Daily Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) ( n = 67 ) Baseline 7 . 06 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 14 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 03 , 0 . 31 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 14 a ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 04 , 0 . 31 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 69 ) Baseline 127 . 2 Change at 12 Weeks 12 . 9 ( 95 % CI ) ( 6 . 5 , 19 . 4 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 14 ( 95 % CI ) ( 7 . 0 , 21 . 0 ) Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 71 ) Baseline 210 . 3 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 4 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 4 , 1 . 5 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 9 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 4 , 2 . 2 ) * All patients on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg twice daily at Baseline a n = 68 Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP are shown in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Summary of Mean Percent Changes from Baseline * in Major Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 24 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily * All patients on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg twice daily at Baseline Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) Baseline 199 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 10 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) Baseline 178 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 6 . 30 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) Baseline 122 . 1 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT - 1 . 30 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) Baseline 41 . 9 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 4 . 80 % * All patients on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP 500 mg twice daily at Baseline Pediatric Clinical Studies In a double - blind , placebo - controlled study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes ( mean FPG 182 . 2 mg / dL ) , treatment with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ( up to 2000 mg / day ) for up to 16 weeks ( mean duration of treatment 11 weeks ) resulted in a significant mean net reduction in FPG of 64 . 3 mg / dL , compared with placebo ( see Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets vs Placebo ( Pediatrics a ) Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Plasma Glucose and Body Weight at Final Visit Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo p - Value FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 37 ) ( n = 36 ) Baseline 162 . 4 192 . 3 < 0 . 001 Change at FINAL VISIT - 42 . 9 21 . 4 Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 39 ) ( n = 38 ) Baseline 205 . 3 189 NS ** Change at FINAL VISIT - 3 . 3 - 2 a Pediatric patients mean age 13 . 8 years ( range 10 to 16 years ) * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline ** Not statistically significant INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and children with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP is contraindicated in patients with : • Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to Metformin hydrochloride .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be temporarily discontinued in patients undergoing radiologic studies involving intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials , because use of such products may result in acute alteration of renal function .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
WARNINGS [ / S ] Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to Metformin accumulation during treatment with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When Metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , Metformin plasma levels > 5 mcg / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving Metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
In more than 20 , 000 patient - years exposure to Metformin in clinical trials , there were no reports of lactic acidosis .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia , are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ’ s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and by use of the minimum effective dose of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration , or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , since alcohol potentiates the effects of Metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
In addition , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence , and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ’ s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose , and if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels , and even blood Metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because Metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated Metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS . )
PRECAUTIONS General Macrovascular Outcomes — There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP for any other anti - dash diabetic drug .
Monitoring of renal function — Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of Metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function .
Thus , patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
In patients with advanced age , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect , because aging is associated with reduced renal function .
In elderly patients , particularly those ≥ 80 years of age , renal function should be monitored regularly and , generally , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should not be titrated to the maximum dose ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Before initiation of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified as normal .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , renal function should be assessed more frequently and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Use of concomitant medications that may affect renal function or Metformin disposition — Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of Metformin , such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , should be used with caution .
Radiologic studies involving the use of intravascular iodinated contrast materials ( for example , intravenous urogram , intravenous cholangiography , angiography , and computed tomography ( CT ) scans with intravascular contrast materials ) — Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving Metformin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re - evaluated and found to be normal .
Hypoxic states — Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued .
Surgical procedures — Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ’ s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
Alcohol intake — Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of Metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Impaired hepatic function — Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels — In controlled clinical trials of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B 12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B 12 absorption from the B 12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP or vitamin B 12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B 12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B 12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B 12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes — A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate , and Metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia — Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Loss of control of blood glucose — When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to withhold Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and temporarily administer insulin .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved .
The effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in lowering blood glucose to a targeted level decreases in many patients over a period of time .
This phenomenon , which may be due to progression of the underlying disease or to diminished responsiveness to the drug , is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective during initial therapy .
Should secondary failure occur with either Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP or sulfonylurea monotherapy , combined therapy with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and sulfonylurea may result in a response .
Should secondary failure occur with combined Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP / sulfonylurea therapy , it may be necessary to consider therapeutic alternatives including initiation of insulin therapy .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function , and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of Metformin therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counselled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP is used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
( See Patient Information printed below . )
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B 12 deficiency should be excluded .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ) Glyburide — In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , coadministration of Metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either Metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and C max were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide — A single - dose , Metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration .
Furosemide increased the Metformin plasma and blood C max by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in Metformin renal clearance .
When administered with Metformin , the C max and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of Metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically .
Nifedipine — A single - dose , Metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma Metformin C max and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
T max and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of Metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Cationic drugs — Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , or vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with Metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Such interaction between Metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , Metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak Metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood Metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other — Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of Metformin and propranolol , and Metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when coadministered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately four times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with Metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with Metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of Metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by Metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to Metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that Metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP is discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP for the treatment of type 2 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years ( studies have not been conducted in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years ) .
Use of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in adults with additional data from a controlled clinical study in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes , which demonstrated a similar response in glycemic control to that seen in adults .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Studies . )
In this study , adverse effects were similar to those described in adults .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients . )
A maximum daily dose of 2000 mg is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Recommended Dosing Schedule : Pediatrics . )
Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney and because the risk of serious adverse reactions to the drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should only be used in patients with normal renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because aging is associated with reduced renal function , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP should be used with caution as age increases .
Care should be taken in dose selection and should be based on careful and regular monitoring of renal function .
Generally , elderly patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ( see also WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a US double - blind clinical study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP patients , and that were more common in Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP - than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 9 .
Table 9 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 . 0 Percent ) in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Monotherapy * Adverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Monotherapy Placebo ( n = 141 ) ( n = 145 ) % of Patients Diarrhea 53 . 2 11 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 25 . 5 8 . 3 Flatulence 12 . 1 5 . 5 Asthenia 9 . 2 5 . 5 Indigestion 7 . 1 4 . 1 Abdominal Discomfort 6 . 4 4 . 8 Headache 5 . 7 4 . 8 * Reactions that were more common in Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP - than placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 to ≤ 5 . 0 % of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP patients and were more commonly reported with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
Pediatric Patients In clinical trials with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose of Metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with Metformin hydrochloride has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of Metformin overdose cases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom Metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with Metformin hydrochloride or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of Metformin hydrochloride must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses .
The maximum recommended daily dose of Metformin hydrochloride is 2550 mg in adults and 2000 mg in pediatric patients ( 10 to 16 years of age ) .
Metformin hydrochloride should be given in divided doses with meals .
Metformin hydrochloride should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to Metformin hydrochloride and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of Metformin hydrochloride , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of Metformin hydrochloride may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults – In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of Metformin hydrochloride is 500 mg twice a day or 850 mg once a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks , up to a total of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Patients can also be titrated from 500 mg twice a day to 850 mg twice a day after 2 weeks .
For those patients requiring additional glycemic control , Metformin hydrochloride may be given to a maximum daily dose of 2550 mg per day .
Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given three times a day with meals .
If higher doses of Metformin are required , Metformin hydrochloride should be used at total daily doses up to 2550 mg administered in divided daily doses , as described above .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies . )
Pediatrics – The usual starting dose of Metformin hydrochloride is 500 mg twice a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Transfer From Other Antidiabetic Therapy When transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to Metformin hydrochloride , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of Metformin hydrochloride monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing Metformin hydrochloride at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for Metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant Metformin hydrochloride and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and prior failure on glyburide , patients started on Metformin hydrochloride 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg were titrated to 1000 / 20 mg , 1500 / 20 mg , 2000 / 20 mg or 2500 / 20 mg of Metformin hydrochloride and glyburide , respectively , to reach the goal of glycemic control as measured by FPG , HbA 1 c and plasma glucose response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant Metformin hydrochloride and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of Metformin hydrochloride and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without Metformin hydrochloride .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of Metformin hydrochloride therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of Metformin hydrochloride should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2500 mg for Metformin hydrochloride .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and Metformin hydrochloride .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride is not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride is not recommended in patients below the age of 10 years .
The initial and maintenance dosing of Metformin hydrochloride should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of Metformin hydrochloride .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
( See WARNINGS . )
HOW SUPPLIED 1000 mg - White to off - white , oval , biconvex , scored , film coated tablets debossing “ H / 104 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Bottles of 30 NDC 68071 - 3200 - 3 Bottles of 60 NDC 68071 - 3200 - 6 Bottles of 90 NDC 68071 - 3200 - 9 Bottles of 120 NDC 68071 - 3200 - 2 Bottles of 180 NDC 68071 - 3200 - 8 Storage Store at 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closure .
Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) Made in India Iss .
05 / 15 Patient Package Insert Patient Information Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP Read this information carefully before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of your doctor ’ s advice .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What are Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ?
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP are used to treat type 2 diabetes .
This is also known as non - insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
People with type 2 diabetes are not able to make enough insulin or respond normally to the insulin their bodies make .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems including kidney damage , amputations , and blindness .
Diabetes is also closely linked to heart disease .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of medicines taken by mouth , and by insulin shots .
Before you take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP , try to control your diabetes by exercise and weight loss .
While you take your diabetes medicine , continue to exercise and follow the diet advised for your diabetes .
No matter what your recommended diabetes management plan is , studies have shown that maintaining good blood sugar control can prevent or delay complications of diabetes , such as blindness .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP can help control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP do not cause your body to make more insulin .
Because of this , when taken alone , it rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , and usually do not cause weight gain .
However , when it is taken with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia is more likely to occur , as is weight gain .
WARNING : A small number of people who have taken Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP have developed a serious condition called lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is caused by a buildup of lactic acid in the blood .
This happens more often in people with kidney problems .
Most people with kidney problems should not take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
( See " What are the side effects of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ? " )
Who should not take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ?
Some conditions increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis , or cause other problems if you take either of these medicines .
Most of the conditions listed below can increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis .
Do not take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP if you : • have kidney problems • have liver problems • have heart failure that is treated with medicines , such as Lanoxin ® ( digoxin ) or Lasix ® ( furosemide ) • drink a lot of alcohol .
This means you binge drink for short periods or drink all the time • are seriously dehydrated ( have lost a lot of water from your body ) • are going to have an x - ray procedure with injection of dyes ( contrast agents ) • are going to have surgery • develop a serious condition , such as heart attack , severe infection , or a stroke • are 80 years or older and you have NOT had your kidney function tested Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP may not be right for you .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
You should also discuss your choices with your doctor if you are nursing a child .
Can Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP be used in children ?
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP has been shown to effectively lower glucose levels in children ( ages 10 to 16 years ) with type 2 diabetes .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP has not been studied in children younger than 10 years old .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP has not been studied in combination with other oral glucose - control medicines or insulin in children .
If you have any questions about the use of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP in children , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
How should I take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ?
Your doctor will tell you how much medicine to take and when to take it .
You will probably start out with a low dose of the medicine .
Your doctor may slowly increase your dose until your blood sugar is better controlled .
You should take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP with meals .
Your doctor may have you take other medicines along with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP to control your blood sugar .
These medicines may include insulin shots .
Taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP with insulin may help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose .
Continue your exercise and diet program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP causes harm to the liver or kidneys .
Tell your doctor if you : • have an illness that causes severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a much lower amount of liquid than normal .
These conditions can lead to severe dehydration ( loss of water in your body ) .
You may need to stop taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP for a short time .
• plan to have surgery or an x - ray procedure with injection of dye ( contrast agent ) .
You may need to stop taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP for a short time .
• start to take other medicines or change how you take a medicine .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP can affect how well other drugs work , and some drugs can affect how well Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP work .
Some medicines may cause high blood sugar .
What should I avoid while taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP ?
Lactic Acidosis .
In rare cases , Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP can cause a serious side effect called lactic acidosis .
This is caused by a buildup of lactic acid in your blood .
This buildup can cause serious damage .
Lactic acidosis caused by Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP is rare and has occurred mostly in people whose kidneys were not working normally .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in about one in 33 , 000 patients taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP over the course of a year .
Although rare , if lactic acidosis does occur , it can be fatal in up to half the people who develop it .
It is also important for your liver to be working normally when you take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP .
Your liver helps remove lactic acid from your blood .
Make sure you tell your doctor before you use Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP if you have kidney or liver problems .
You should also stop using Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and call your doctor right away if you have signs of lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital .
Signs of lactic acidosis are : • feeling very weak , tired , or uncomfortable • unusual muscle pain • trouble breathing • unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort • feeling cold • feeling dizzy or lightheaded • suddenly developing a slow or irregular heartbeat If your medical condition suddenly changes , stop taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and call your doctor right away .
This may be a sign of lactic acidosis or another serious side effect .
Other Side Effects .
Common side effects of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ’ ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol , or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
General advice about prescription medicines If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP that is written for healthcare professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) Made in India Code .
No : 37 / RR / AP / 2003 / F / RIss .
05 / 15 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
