Active Ingredient : Docusate sodium 10 mg ( in each 1 mL ) Purpose : Stool Softener Uses • for gentle , reliable relief from occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • generally produces bowel movement in 12 to 72 hours Warning • Do not use laxative products for longer than 1 week unless told to do so by a doctor • if you are presently taking mineral oil unless told to do by a doctor Ask doctor before use if you have • stomach pain • nausea • vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that last over two weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or fail to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative .
These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • take as indicated by doctor • this product must be given in a 6 to 8 oz .
glass of milk or fruit juice or infant ' s formula to prevent throat irritation .
Dose may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dosage should be adjusted to individual response • higher doses are recommended for initial therapy • the effect on stools is usually apparent 1 to 3 days after the first dose Adults and children over 12 years 50 to 200 mg ( 1 to 4 teaspoonful ) Children 6 to under 12 years 50 to 100 mg ( 1 to 2 teaspoonful ) Children 3 to under 6 years 25 to 50 mg ( 1 / 2 to 1 teaspoonful ) Children under 3 years of age Ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • protect from freezing and excessive heat • do not use if tamperevident safety seal around cap is broken or missing • dispense in tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant closure Inactive ingredients citric acid , D & C red no . 33 , flavor , methylparaben , Poloxamer , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate .
Questions 888 - 974 - 5279 This product is not manufactured or distributed by Purdue Products LP , distributor of Colace ® Liquid .
Manufactured by : Silarx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 1033 Stoneleigh Ave Carmel , NY 10512 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
