DESCRIPTION Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg are white to off - white suppositories , each containing the antifungal agent , miconazole nitrate , USP 1 - [ 2 , 4 - Dichloro - β - [ ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl ) oxy ] phenethyl ] - imidazole mononitrate , 200 mg , in a hydrogenated vegetable oil base .
The molecular formula is C18H14Cl4N2O • HNO3 ; the molecular weight is 479 . 14 and the structural formula may be represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Miconazole nitrate exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against species of the genus Candida .
The pharmacologic mode of action is unknown .
Following intravaginal administration of miconazole nitrate , small amounts are absorbed .
Administration of a single dose of miconazole nitrate vaginal suppositories ( 100 mg ) to healthy subjects resulted in total recovery from the urine and feces of 0 . 85 % ( ± 0 . 43 % ) of the administered dose .
Animal studies indicate that the drug crossed the placenta and doses above those used in humans result in embryo and fetotoxicity ( 80 mg / kg , orally ) , although this has not been reported in human subjects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
In multi - center clinical trials in 440 women with vulvovaginal candidiasis , the efficacy of treatment with the Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg for 3 days was compared with treatment for 7 days with Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream 2 % .
The clinical cure rates ( free of microbiological evidence and clinical signs and symptoms of candidiasis at 8 to 10 days and 30 to 35 days post therapy ) were numerically lower , although not statistically different , with the 3 - Day Suppository when compared with the 7 - Day Cream .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg are indicated for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( moniliasis ) .
Effectiveness in pregnancy has not been established .
As miconazole nitrate is effective only for candidal vulvovaginitis , the diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smear and / or cultures .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis ( Trichomonas and Haemophilus vaginalis [ Gardnerella ] ) should be ruled out by appropriate laboratory methods .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients known to be hypersensitive to this drug .
PRECAUTIONS General Discontinue drug if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
The base contained in the suppository formulation may interact with certain latex products , such as that used in vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Concurrent use is not recommended .
Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Cream USP , 2 % may be considered for use under these conditions .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of response to Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories , appropriate microbiological studies ( standard KOH smear and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Fertility ( Reproduction ) : Oral administration of miconazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
However , this effect was not observed in oral rabbit studies .
In addition , signs of fetal and embryo toxicity were reported in rat and rabbit studies , and dystocia was reported in rat studies after oral doses at and above 80 mg per kg .
Intravaginal administration did not produce these effects in rats .
Pregnancy Since imidazoles are absorbed in small amounts from the human vagina , they should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
Clinical studies , during which miconazole nitrate vaginal cream and suppositories were used for up to 14 days , were reported to include 541 pregnant patients .
Follow - up reports available in 471 of these patients reveal no adverse effects or complications attributable to miconazole nitrate therapy in infants born to these women .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether miconazole is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when miconazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical studies with Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg , 301 patients were treated .
The incidence of vulvovaginal burning , itching or irritation was 2 % .
Complaints of cramping ( 2 % ) and headaches ( 1 . 3 % ) were also reported .
Other complaints ( hives , skin rash ) occurred with less than a 0 . 5 % incidence .
The therapy - related dropout rate was 0 . 3 % .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of miconazole nitrate in humans has not been reported to date .
In mice , rats , guinea pigs and dogs , the oral LD50 values were found to be 578 . 1 , greater than 640 , 275 . 9 and greater than 160 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg : One suppository ( miconazole nitrate , 200 mg ) is inserted intravaginally once daily at bedtime for three consecutive days .
Before prescribing another course of therapy , the diagnosis should be reconfirmed by smears and / or cultures to rule out other pathogens .
HOW SUPPLIED Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg are available as elliptically shaped white to off - white suppositories in packages of three with a vaginal applicator NDC 0472 - 1738 - 03 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . A 7 / 2020 PATIENT ’ S INSTRUCTIONS Miconazole Nitrate ( mye konꞌ a zole nyeꞌ trate ) Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg 3 - DAY THERAPY Three oval suppositories , for use inside the vagina only .
Designed to be inserted into the vagina .
HOW TO USE : Place one suppository into the vagina each night at bedtime for 3 nights , as directed by your doctor .
The miconazole nitrate vaginal suppository is self - lubricating and may be inserted with or without the applicator A . Insertion with the applicator 1 .
Filling the applicator : Tear off one suppository from the strip .
Separate the plastic wrap at the pointed end with your thumb .
With thumb and forefinger of each hand , hold the plastic tabs and pull apart .
Gently remove the suppository from the plastic wrap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Place the flat end of the suppository into the open end of the applicator as shown .
You are now ready to insert the suppository into the vagina .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Using the applicator : Lie on your back with your knees drawn up toward your chest .
Holding the applicator by the ribbed end of the barrel , gently insert it into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
Press the plunger to release the suppository into the vagina .
Remove the applicator from the vagina .
3 .
Cleaning the applicator : After each use , you should thoroughly clean the applicator by the following procedure : Pull the plunger out of the barrel .
Wash both pieces with lukewarm , soapy water , and dry them thoroughly .
Put the applicator back together by gently pushing the plunger into the barrel as far as it will go .
B . Insertion without the applicator Lie on your back with your knees drawn up toward your chest .
Place the suppository on the tip of your finger as shown .
Insert the suppository gently into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NOTE : Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
See end flap for lot number and expiration date .
A WORD ABOUT YEAST INFECTIONS Why do yeast infections occur ?
Yeast infections are caused by an organism called Candida ( KAN di duh ) .
It may be present in small and harmless amounts in the mouth , digestive track , and vagina .
Sometimes the natural balance of the vagina becomes upset .
This may lead to rapid growth of Candida , which results in a yeast infection .
Symptoms of yeast infection include itching , burning , redness , and an abnormal discharge .
Your doctor can make the diagnosis of a yeast infection by evaluating your symptoms and looking at a sample of the discharge under the microscope .
How can I prevent yeast infections ?
Certain factors may increase your chance of developing a yeast infection .
These factors don ’ t actually cause the problem , but they may create a situation that allows the yeast to grow rapidly .
Clothing : Tight jeans , nylon underwear , pantyhose , and wet bathing suits can hold in heat and moisture ( two conditions in which yeast organisms thrive ) .
Looser pants or skirts , 100 % cotton underwear , and stockings may help avoid this problem .
Diet : Cutting down on sweets , milk products , and artificial sweeteners reduce the risk of yeast infections .
Antibiotics : Antibiotics work by eliminating disease - causing organisms .
While they are helpful in curing other problems , antibiotics may lead to an overgrowth of Candida in the vagina .
Pregnancy : Hormonal changes in the body during pregnancy encourage the growth of yeast .
This is a very common time for an infection to occur .
Until the baby is born , it may be hard to completely eliminate yeast infections .
If you believe you are pregnant , tell your doctor .
Menstruation : Sometimes , monthly changes in hormone levels may lead to yeast infections .
Diabetes : In addition to heat and moisture , yeast thrives on sugar .
Because diabetics often have sugar in their urine , their vaginas are rich in this substance .
Careful control of diabetes may help prevent yeast infection .
Controlling these factors can help eliminate yeast infections and may prevent them from coming back .
Some other helpful tips : • For best results , be sure to use the medication as prescribed by your doctor , even if you feel better very quickly .
• Avoid sexual intercourse , if your doctor advises you to do so .
The suppository formulation ( not the cream ) may damage the diaphragm .
Therefore , use of the diaphragm during therapy with the suppository is not recommended .
Consult your physician .
• If your partner has any penile itching , redness , or discomfort , he should consult his physician and mention that you are being treated for a yeast infection .
• You can use the medication even if you are having your menstrual period .
However , you should not use tampons because they may absorb the medication .
Instead , use external sanitary pads or napkins until you have finished your medication or if the vaginal medication leaks .
• Dry the genital area thoroughly after showering , bathing , or swimming .
Change out of a wet bathing suit or damp exercise clothes as soon as possible .
A dry environment is less likely to encourage the growth of yeast .
• Wipe from front to rear ( away from the vagina ) after a bowel movement .
• Don ’ t douche unless your doctor specifically tells you to do so .
Douching may disturb the vaginal balance .
• Don ’ t scratch if you can help it .
Scratching can cause more irritation and spread the infection .
• Discuss with your physician any medication you are already taking .
Certain types of medication can make your vagina more susceptible to infection .
• Eat nutritious meals to promote your general health .
IF YOU HAVE A QUESTION Contact Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 Rev . A 7 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0472 - 1738 - 03 Miconazole Nitrate Vaginal Suppositories USP , 200 mg For Vaginal Yeast Infections 3 - Day Regimen Rx only 3 vaginal suppositories with applicator [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
