Rx only Composition Each Softgel Capsule Contains : Vitamins and Minerals : Vitamin A ( as beta carotene ) 1100 IU Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 12 mg Vitamin D3 ( as cholecalciferol ) 1000 IU Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 10 IU Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 ) ( as thiamine mononitrate ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as nicotinamide ) 15 mg Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folic Acid 1 mg Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Elemental Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 27 mg Iodine ( as potassium iodide ) 200 mcg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 5 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 15 mg Copper ( as copper oxide ) 2 mg Lauric Acid 60 mg Omega - 3 FATTY ACID DHA from Algal ( crypthecodinium ) Oil 200 mg Other Ingredients Gelatin , Sorbitol , Glycerin , Soybean Oil , USP Purified Water , Yellow Beeswax , Soy Lecithin , FD & C Blue # 1 , Titanium Dioxide ( color ) , High Oleic Sunflower Oil , Tocopherols , Ascorbyl Palmitate , FD & C Yellow # 5 , FD & C Red # 40 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vitafol ® - Plus is indicated to provide vitamin , mineral and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother , including individuals with known allergies to fish .
Vitafol ® - Plus does not contain fish , fish oils , fish proteins or fish byproducts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® - Plus is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B - 12 ) WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNING / PRECAUTIONS Vitafol - Plus should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbitol , and valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including pregnancy and breast - feeding , and the use of all medications and dietary supplements .
Pediatric Use Not for Pediatric Use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® - Plus .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , one softgel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® - Plus is available as a purple , oval shaped softgel capsule imprinted EV0092 .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 softgel capsules ) ( NDC0642 - 0092 - 30 ) , and as professional samples ( NDC0642 - 0092 - 01 ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat , moisture and protect from light .
Rx only Manufactured for EVERETT LABORATORIES , INC .
West Orange , NJ 07052 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 Patent Pending Vitafol ® is a trademark of Everett Laboratories , Inc .
life ' s DHA is a trademark of DSM .
U . S . Patent No . 5 , 492 , 938 ; 7 , 163 , 811 ( Rev . 03 / 12 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Capsule Carton NDC 0642 - 0092 - 30 Vitafol ® - Plus Prenatal Supplement with DHA Small , All - In - One , Once Daily Softgel Capsule EV0092 Actual Size DOES NOT CONTAIN FISH OIL life ' s DHA HEALTHY BRAIN , EYES , HEART ™ Unit Dose Pack 30 Softgel Capsules Rx only Patent Pending [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
