PHENAZOPYRIDINE HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS , USP RxOnly CAUTION : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
DESCRIPTION Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride is light or dark red to dark violet , odorless , slightly bitter , crystalline powder .
It has a specific local analgesic effect in the urinary tract , promptly relieving burning and pain .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Carnauba Wax , Croscarmellose Sodium , Hypromellose , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , Polyethylene Glycol and Pregelatinized Starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Phenazopyridine HCl is excreted in the urine where it exerts a topical analgesic effect on the mucosa of the urinary tract .
This action helps to relieve pain , burning , urgency and frequency .
The precise mechanism of action is not known .
The pharmacokinetic properties of Phenazopyridine HCl have not been determined .
Phenazopyridine HCl is rapidly excreted by the kidneys , with as much as 66 % of an oral dose being excreted unchanged in the urine .
INDICATIONS ANDUSAGE Phenazopyridine HCl is indicated for the symptomatic relief of pain , burning , urgency , frequency , and other discomforts arising from irritation of the lower urinary tract mucosa caused by infection , trauma , surgery , endoscopic procedures , or the passage of sounds or catheters .
The use of Phenazopyridine HCl for relief of symptoms should not delay definitive diagnosis and treatment of causative conditions .
Because it provides only symptomatic relief , prompt appropriate treatment of the cause of pain must be instituted and Phenazopyridine HCl should be discontinued when symptoms are controlled .
The analgesic action may reduce or eliminate the need for systemic analgesics or narcotics .
It is , however , compatible with antibacterial therapy and can help to relieve pain and discomfort during the interval before antibacterial therapy controls the infection .
Treatment of a urinary tract infection with Phenazopyridine HCl should not exceed 2 days because there is a lack of evidence that the combined administration of Phenazopyridine HCl and an antibacterial provides greater benefit than administration of the antibacterial alone after 2 days .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Phenazopyridine HCl should not be used in patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to it .
The use of Phenazopyridine HCl is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Headache , rash , pruritus and occasional gastrointestinal disturbance .
An anaphylactoid - like reaction has been described .
Methemoglobinemia , hemolytic anemia , renal and hepatic toxicity have been reported , usually at overdosage levels ( see OVERDOSAGE Section ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : A yellowish tinge of the skin or sclera may indicate accumulation due to impaired renal excretion and the need to discontinue therapy .
The decline in renal function associated with advanced age should be kept in mind .
NOTE : Patients should be informed that Phenazopyridine HCl produces a reddish - orange discoloration of the urine and may stain fabric .
Staining of contact lenses has been reported .
Laboratory Test Interaction : Due to its properties as an azo dye , Phenazopyridine HCl may interfere with urinalysis based on spectrometry or color reactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term administration of Phenazopyridine HCl has induced neoplasia in rats ( large intestine ) and mice ( liver ) .
Although no association between Phenazopyridine HCl and human neoplasia has been reported , adequate epidemiological studies along these lines have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 50 mg / kg / day and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Phenazopyridine HCl .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers : No information is available on the appearance of Phenazopyridine HCl , or its metabolites in human milk .
DOSAGE ANDADMINISTRATION 100 mg Tablets : Average adult dosage is two tablets 3 times a day after meals .
200 mg Tablets : Average adult dosage is one tablet 3 times a day after meals .
When used concomitantly with an antibacterial agent for the treatment of a urinary tract infection , the administration of Phenazopyridine HCl should not exceed 2 days .
OVERDOSAGE Exceeding the recommended dose in patients with good renal function or administering the usual dose to patients with impaired renal function ( common in elderly patients ) may lead to increased serum levels and toxic reactions .
Methemoglobinemia generally follows a massive , acute overdose .
Methylene blue , 1 to 2 mg / kg / body weight intravenously or ascorbic acid 100 to 200 mg given orally should cause prompt reduction of the methemoglobinemia and disappearance of the cyanosis which is an aid in diagnosis .
Oxidative Heinz body hemolytic anemia may also occur , and “ bite cells ” ( degmacytes ) may be present in a chronic overdosage situation .
Red blood cell G - 6 - PD deficiency may predispose to hemolysis .
Renal and hepatic impairment and occasional failure , usually due to hypersensitivity , may also occur .
HOWSUPPLIED 100 mg Tablets : Supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 10135 - 0620 - 01 ) counts .
Appearance : Deep brown to maroon colored , round , film coated tablets debossed “ PY ” above “ 1 ” on one side and plain on the other .
200 mg Tablets : Supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 10135 - 0621 - 01 ) counts .
Appearance : Deep brown to maroon colored , round , film coated tablets debossed “ PY ” above “ 2 ” on one side and plain on the other .
DISPENSE contents with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) and in a tight container as defined in the USP .
STORE at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufacturedfor : Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
New Castle , DE 19720 Distributed by : Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
New Castle , DE 19720 Made in USA Rev . 2 03 / 18 AN PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10135 - 0620 - 01 Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 100 mg Rx Only 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10135 - 0621 - 01 Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 200 mg Rx Only 100 TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
