DESCRIPTION Nifedipine is a drug belonging to a class of pharmacological agents known as the calcium channel blockers .
Nifedipine is 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid , 1 , 4 - dihydro - 2 , 6 - dimethyl - 4 - ( 2 - nitrophenyl ) - , dimethyl ester , C 17 H 18 N 2 O 6 , and has the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nifedipine is a yellow crystalline substance , practically insoluble in water but soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 346 . 3 .
Nifedipine GITS ( Gastrointestinal Therapeutic System ) tablet is formulated as a once - a - day controlled - release tablet for oral administration designed to deliver 30 , 60 , or 90 mg of nifedipine .
Inert ingredients in the formulations are : cellulose acetate ; ferric oxide ; hypromellose ; magnesium stearate ; polyethylene glycol ; polyethylene oxide ; potassium chloride ; povidone ; sodium chloride ; titanium dioxide ; propylene glycol and black iron oxide .
The USP Dissolution Test is pending .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] System Components and Performance Nifedipine extended - release tablets are similar in appearance to a conventional tablet .
It consists , however , of a semipermeable membrane surrounding an osmotically active drug core .
The core itself is divided into two layers : an “ active ” layer containing the drug , and a “ push ” layer containing pharmacologically inert ( but osmotically active ) components .
As water from the gastrointestinal tract enters the tablet , pressure increases in the osmotic layer and “ pushes ” against the drug layer , releasing drug through the precision laser - drilled tablet orifice in the active layer .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets are designed to provide nifedipine at an approximately constant rate over 24 hours .
This controlled rate of drug delivery into the gastrointestinal lumen is independent of pH or gastrointestinal motility .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets depend for its action on the existence of an osmotic gradient between the contents of the bi - layer core and fluid in the gastrointestinal tract .
Drug delivery is essentially constant as long as the osmotic gradient remains constant , and then gradually falls to zero .
Upon swallowing , the biologically inert components of the tablet remain intact during gastrointestinal transit and are eliminated in the feces as an insoluble shell .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nifedipine is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) and inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into cardiac muscle and smooth muscle .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Nifedipine selectively inhibits calcium ion influx across the cell membrane of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle without altering serum calcium concentrations .
Mechanism of Action A ) Angina The precise mechanisms by which inhibition of calcium influx relieves angina has not been fully determined , but includes at least the following two mechanisms : 1 ) Relaxation and Prevention of Coronary Artery Spasm Nifedipine dilates the main coronary arteries and coronary arterioles , both in normal and ischemic regions , and is a potent inhibitor of coronary artery spasm , whether spontaneous or ergonovine - induced .
This property increases myocardial oxygen delivery in patients with coronary artery spasm , and is responsible for the effectiveness of nifedipine in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ’ s or variant ) angina .
Whether this effect plays any role in classical angina is not clear , but studies of exercise tolerance have not shown an increase in the maximum exercise rate - pressure product , a widely accepted measure of oxygen utilization .
This suggests that , in general , relief of spasm or dilation of coronary arteries is not an important factor in classical angina .
2 ) Reduction of Oxygen Utilization Nifedipine regularly reduces arterial pressure at rest and at a given level of exercise by dilating peripheral arterioles and reducing the total peripheral vascular resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works .
This unloading of the heart reduces myocardial energy consumption and oxygen requirements , and probably accounts for the effectiveness of nifedipine in chronic stable angina .
B ) Hypertension The mechanism by which nifedipine reduces arterial blood pressure involves peripheral arterial vasodilatation and the resulting reduction in peripheral vascular resistance .
The increased peripheral vascular resistance that is an underlying cause of hypertension results from an increase in active tension in the vascular smooth muscle .
Studies have demonstrated that the increase in active tension reflects an increase in cytosolic free calcium .
Nifedipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator which acts directly on vascular smooth muscle .
The binding of nifedipine to voltage - dependent and possibly receptor - operated channels in vascular smooth muscle results in an inhibition of calcium influx through these channels .
Stores of intracellular calcium in vascular smooth muscle are limited and thus dependent upon the influx of extracellular calcium for contraction to occur .
The reduction in calcium influx by nifedipine causes arterial vasodilation and decreased peripheral vascular resistance which results in reduced arterial blood pressure .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Nifedipine is completely absorbed after oral administration .
Plasma drug concentrations rise at a gradual , controlled rate after a nifedipine extended - release tablets dose and reach a plateau at approximately six hours after the first dose .
For subsequent doses , relatively constant plasma concentrations at this plateau are maintained with minimal fluctuations over the 24 - hour dosing interval .
About a four - fold higher fluctuation index ( ratio of peak to trough plasma concentration ) was observed with the conventional immediate - release nifedipine capsule at t . i . d . dosing than with once daily nifedipine extended - release tablets .
At steady - state , the bioavailability of the nifedipine extended - release tablets is 86 % relative to nifedipine capsules .
Administration of the nifedipine extended - release tablets in the presence of food slightly alters the early rate of drug absorption , but does not influence the extent of drug bioavailability .
Markedly reduced gastrointestinal retention time over prolonged periods ( i . e . , short bowel syndrome ) , however , may influence the pharmacokinetic profile of the drug which could potentially result in lower plasma concentrations .
Pharmacokinetics of nifedipine extended - release tablets are linear over the dose range of 30 to 180 mg in that plasma drug concentrations are proportional to dose administered .
There was no evidence of dose dumping either in the presence or absence of food for over 150 subjects in pharmacokinetic studies .
Nifedipine is extensively metabolized to highly water - soluble , inactive metabolites , accounting for 60 to 80 % of the dose excreted in the urine .
The elimination half - life of nifedipine is approximately two hours .
Only traces ( less than 0 . 1 % of the dose ) of unchanged form can be detected in the urine .
The remainder is excreted in the feces in metabolized form , most likely as a result of biliary excretion .
Thus , the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine are not significantly influenced by the degree of renal impairment .
Patients in hemodialysis or chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis have not reported significantly altered pharmacokinetics of nifedipine .
Since hepatic biotransformation is the predominant route for the disposition of nifedipine , the pharmacokinetics may be altered in patients with chronic liver disease .
Patients with hepatic impairment ( liver cirrhosis ) have a longer disposition half - life and higher bioavailability of nifedipine than healthy volunteers .
The degree of serum protein binding of nifedipine is high ( 92 to 98 % ) .
Protein binding may be greatly reduced in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
Following intravenous administration , clearance of nifedipine was decreased by 33 % in elderly healthy subjects relative to young healthy subjects .
Hemodynamics Like other slow - channel blockers , nifedipine exerts a negative inotropic effect on isolated myocardial tissue .
This is rarely , if ever , seen in intact animals or man , probably because of reflex responses to its vasodilating effects .
In man , nifedipine decreases peripheral vascular resistance which leads to a fall in systolic and diastolic pressures , usually minimal in normotensive volunteers ( less than 5 to 10 mm Hg systolic ) , but sometimes larger .
With nifedipine extended - release tablets , these decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by any significant change in heart rate .
Hemodynamic studies in patients with normal ventricular function have generally found a small increase in cardiac index without major effects on ejection fraction , left ventricular end diastolic pressure ( LVEDP ) , or volume ( LVEDV ) .
In patients with impaired ventricular function , most acute studies have shown some increase in ejection fraction and reduction in left ventricular filling pressure .
Electrophysiologic Effects Although , like other members of its class , nifedipine causes a slight depression of sinoatrial node function and atrioventricular conduction in isolated myocardial preparations , such effects have not been seen in studies in intact animals or in man .
In formal electrophysiologic studies , predominantly in patients with normal conduction systems , nifedipine has had no tendency to prolong atrioventricular conduction or sinus node recovery time , or to slow sinus rate .
INDICATIONS & USAGE I . Vasospastic Angina Nifedipine extended - release tablets are indicated for the management of vasospastic angina confirmed by any of the following criteria : 1 ) classical pattern of angina at rest accompanied by ST segment elevation , 2 ) angina or coronary artery spasm provoked by ergonovine , or 3 ) angiographically demonstrated coronary artery spasm .
In those patients who have had angiography , the presence of significant fixed obstructive disease is not incompatible with the diagnosis of vasospastic angina , provided that the above criteria are satisfied .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets may also be used where the clinical presentation suggests a possible vasospastic component , but where vasospasm has not been confirmed , e . g . , where pain has a variable threshold on exertion , or in unstable angina where electrocardiographic findings are compatible with intermittent vasospasm , or when angina is refractory to nitrates and / or adequate doses of beta blockers .
II .
Chronic Stable Angina • ( Classical Effort - Associated Angina ) Nifedipine extended - release tablets are indicated for the management of chronic stable angina ( effort - associated angina ) without evidence of vasospasm in patients who remain symptomatic despite adequate doses of beta blockers and / or organic nitrates or who cannot tolerate those agents .
In chronic stable angina ( effort - associated angina ) , nifedipine has been effective in controlled trials of up to eight weeks duration in reducing angina frequency and increasing exercise tolerance , but confirmation of sustained effectiveness and evaluation of long - term safety in these patients is incomplete .
Controlled studies in small numbers of patients suggest concomitant use of nifedipine and beta - blocking agents may be beneficial in patients with chronic stable angina , but available information is not sufficient to predict with confidence the effects of concurrent treatment , especially in patients with compromised left ventricular function or cardiac conduction abnormalities .
When introducing such concomitant therapy , care must be taken to monitor blood pressure closely , since severe hypotension can occur from the combined effects of the drugs .
( See WARNINGS ) III .
Hypertension Nifedipine extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including nifedipine extended - release tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Known hypersensitivity reaction to nifedipine .
WARNINGS Excessive Hypotension Although in most angina patients the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated , occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension .
These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment , and may be more likely in patients on concomitant beta blockers .
Severe hypotension and / or increased fluid volume requirements have been reported in patients receiving nifedipine together with a beta - blocking agent who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia .
The interaction with high dose fentanyl appears to be due to the combination of nifedipine and a beta blocker , but the possibility that it may occur with nifedipine alone , with low doses of fentanyl , in other surgical procedures , or with other narcotic analgesics cannot be ruled out .
In nifedipine - treated patients where surgery using high dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated , the physician should be aware of these potential problems and , if the patient ’ s condition permits , sufficient time ( at least 36 hours ) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery .
The following information should be taken into account in those patients who are being treated for hypertension as well as angina : Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Rarely , patients , particularly those who have severe obstructive coronary artery disease , have developed well documented increased frequency , duration and / or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction on starting nifedipine or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect is not established .
Beta Blocker Withdrawal It is important to taper beta blockers if possible , rather than stopping them abruptly before beginning nifedipine .
Patients recently withdrawn from beta blockers may develop a withdrawal syndrome with increased angina , probably related to increased sensitivity to catecholamines .
Initiation of nifedipine treatment will not prevent this occurrence and on occasion has been reported to increase it .
Congestive Heart Failure Rarely , patients , usually receiving a beta blocker , have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine .
Patients with tight aortic stenosis may be at greater risk for such an event , as the unloading effect of nifedipine would be expected to be of less benefit , owing to the fixed impedance to flow across the aortic valve in these patients .
Gastrointestinal Obstruction Requiring Surgery There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of nifedipine extended - release tablets .
Bezoars can occur in very rare cases and may require surgical intervention .
Cases of serious gastrointestinal obstruction have been identified in patients with no known gastrointestinal disease , including the need for hospitalization and surgical intervention .
Risk factors for a gastrointestinal obstruction identified from post - marketing reports of nifedipine extended - release tablets ( GITS tablet formulation ) include alteration in gastrointestinal anatomy ( e . g . , severe gastrointestinal narrowing , colon cancer , small bowel obstruction , bowel resection , gastric bypass , vertical banded gastroplasty , colostomy , diverticulitis , diverticulosis , and inflammatory bowel disease ) , hypomotility disorders ( e . g . , constipation , gastroesophageal reflux disease , ileus , obesity , hypothyroidism , and diabetes ) and concomitant medications ( e . g . , H2 - histamine blockers , opiates , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , laxatives , anticholinergic agents , levothyroxine , and neuromuscular blocking agents ) .
Gastrointestinal Ulcers Cases of tablet adherence to the gastrointestinal wall with ulceration have been reported , some requiring hospitalization and intervention .
PRECAUTIONS General - Hypotension : Because nifedipine decreases peripheral vascular resistance , careful monitoring of blood pressure during the initial administration and titration of nifedipine is suggested .
Close observation is especially recommended for patients already taking medications that are known to lower blood pressure .
( See WARNINGS ) Peripheral Edema : Mild to moderate peripheral edema occurs in a dose dependent manner with an incidence ranging from approximately 10 % to about 30 % at the highest dose studied ( 180 mg ) .
It is a localized phenomenon thought to be associated with vasodilation of dependent arterioles and small blood vessels and not due to left ventricular dysfunction or generalized fluid retention .
With patients whose angina or hypertension is complicated by congestive heart failure , care should be taken to differentiate this peripheral edema from the effects of increasing left ventricular dysfunction .
Information for Patients : Nifedipine extended - release tablets should be swallowed whole .
Do not chew , divide or crush tablets .
Do not be concerned if you occasionally notice in your stool something that looks like a tablet .
In nifedipine extended - release tablets , the medication is contained within a nonabsorbable shell that has been specially designed to slowly release the drug for your body to absorb .
When this process is completed , the empty tablet is eliminated from your body .
Laboratory Tests : Rare , usually transient , but occasionally significant elevations of enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase , CPK , LDH , SGOT and SGPT have been noted .
The relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain in most cases , but probable in some .
These laboratory abnormalities have rarely been associated with clinical symptoms ; however , cholestasis with or without jaundice has been reported .
A small ( 5 . 4 % ) increase in mean alkaline phosphatase was noted in patients treated with nifedipine extended - release tablets .
This was an isolated finding not associated with clinical symptoms and it rarely resulted in values which fell outside the normal range .
Rare instances of allergic hepatitis have been reported .
In controlled studies , nifedipine extended - release tablets did not adversely affect serum uric acid , glucose , or cholesterol .
Serum potassium was unchanged in patients receiving nifedipine extended - release tablets in the absence of concomitant diuretic therapy , and slightly decreased in patients receiving concomitant diuretics .
Nifedipine , like other calcium channel blockers , decreases platelet aggregation in vitro .
Limited clinical studies have demonstrated a moderate but statistically significant decrease in platelet aggregation and an increase in bleeding time in some nifedipine patients .
This is thought to be a function of inhibition of calcium transport across the platelet membrane .
No clinical significance for these findings has been demonstrated .
Positive direct Coombs test with / without hemolytic anemia has been reported , but a causal relationship between nifedipine administration and positivity of this laboratory test , including hemolysis , could not be determined .
Although nifedipine has been used safely in patients with renal dysfunction and has been reported to exert a beneficial effect , in certain cases , rare , reversible elevations in BUN and serum creatinine have been reported in patients with preexisting chronic renal insufficiency .
The relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain in most cases but probable in some .
Drug Interactions : Beta - adrenergic blocking agents : ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE and WARNINGS ) Experience in over 1400 patients with nifedipine capsules in a noncomparative clinical trial has shown that concomitant administration of nifedipine and beta - blocking agents is usually well tolerated , but there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure , severe hypotension , or exacerbation of angina .
Long - acting Nitrates : Nifedipine may be safely coadministered with nitrates , but there have been no controlled studies to evaluate the antianginal effectiveness of this combination .
Digitalis : Administration of nifedipine with digoxin increased digoxin levels in nine of twelve normal volunteers .
The average increase was 45 % .
Another investigator found no increase in digoxin levels in thirteen patients with coronary artery disease .
In an uncontrolled study of over two hundred patients with congestive heart failure during which digoxin blood levels were not measured , digitalis toxicity was not observed .
Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels , it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating , adjusting , and discontinuing nifedipine to avoid possible over - or under - digitalization .
Coumarin Anticoagulants : There have been rare reports of increased prothrombin time in patients taking coumarin anticoagulants to whom nifedipine was administered .
However , the relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain .
Cimetidine : A study in six healthy volunteers has shown a significant increase in peak nifedipine plasma levels ( 80 % ) and area - under - the - curve ( 74 % ) , after a one week course of cimetidine at 1000 mg per day and nifedipine at 40 mg per day .
Ranitidine produced smaller , non - significant increases .
The effect may be mediated by the known inhibition of cimetidine on hepatic cytochrome P - 450 , the enzyme system probably responsible for the first - pass metabolism of nifedipine .
If nifedipine therapy is initiated in a patient currently receiving cimetidine , cautious titration is advised .
Nifedipine is metabolized by CYP3A4 .
Coadministration of nifedipine with phenytoin , an inducer of CYP3A4 , lowers the systemic exposure to nifedipine by approximately 70 % .
Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with phenytoin or any known CYP3A4 inducer or consider an alternative antihypertensive therapy .
CYP3A inhibitors such as fluconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , erythromycin , nefazodone , fluoxetine , saquinavir , indinavir , and nelfinavir may result in increased exposure to nifedipine when coadministered .
Careful monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary ; consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose available if given concomitantly with these medications .
Other Interactions : Grapefruit Juice : Coadministration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice resulted in approximately a doubling in nifedipine AUC and C max with no change in half - life .
The increased plasma concentrations most likely result from inhibition of CYP 3A4 related first - pass metabolism .
Avoid ingestion of grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided while taking nifedipine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Nifedipine was administered orally to rats for two years and was not shown to be carcinogenic .
When given to rats prior to mating , nifedipine caused reduced fertility at a dose approximately 5 times the maximum recommended human dose .
There is a literature report of reversible reduction in the ability of human sperm obtained from a limited number of infertile men taking recommended doses of nifedipine to bind to and fertilize an ovum in vitro .
In vivo mutagenicity studies were negative .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Nifedipine has been shown to produce teratogenic findings in rats and rabbits , including digital anomalies similar to those reported for phenytoin .
Digital anomalies have been reported to occur with other members of the dihydropyridine class and are possibly a result of compromised uterine blood flow .
Nifedipine administration was associated with a variety of embryotoxic , placentotoxic , and fetotoxic effects , including stunted fetuses ( rats , mice , rabbits ) , rib deformities ( mice ) , cleft palate ( mice ) , small placentas and underdeveloped chorionic villi ( monkeys ) , embryonic and fetal deaths ( rats , mice , rabbits ) , and prolonged pregnancy / decreased neonatal survival ( rats ; not evaluated in other species ) .
On a mg / kg basis , all of the doses associated with the teratogenic embryotoxic or fetotoxic effects in animals were higher ( 5 to 50 times ) than the maximum recommended human dose of 120 mg / day .
On a mg / m 2 basis , some doses were higher and some were lower than the maximum recommended human dose , but all are within an order of magnitude of it .
The doses associated with placentotoxic effects in monkeys were equivalent to or lower than the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m 2 basis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
Lactation : Nifedipine is transferred through breast milk .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets should be used during breastfeeding only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Age appears to have a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine .
The clearance is decreased resulting in a higher AUC in the elderly .
These changes are not due to changes in renal function ( see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
ADVERSE EXPERIENCES Over 1000 patients from both controlled and open trials with nifedipine extended - release tablets in hypertension and angina were included in the evaluation of adverse experiences .
All side effects reported during nifedipine extended - release tablets therapy were tabulated independent of their causal relation to medication .
The most common side effect reported with nifedipine extended - release tablets was edema which was dose related and ranged in frequency from approximately 10 % to about 30 % at the highest dose studied ( 180 mg ) .
Other common adverse experiences reported in placebo - controlled trials include : Adverse Effect Nifedipine Extended - Release Tablets ( % ) ( N = 707 ) Placebo ( % ) ( N = 266 ) Headache 15 . 8 9 . 8 Fatigue 5 . 9 4 . 1 Dizziness 4 . 1 4 . 5 Constipation 3 . 3 2 . 3 Nausea 3 . 3 1 . 9 Of these , only edema and headache were more common in nifedipine extended - release tablets patients than placebo patients .
The following adverse reactions occurred with an incidence of less than 3 . 0 % .
With the exception of leg cramps , the incidence of these side effects was similar to that of placebo alone .
Body as a Whole / Systemic : asthenia , flushing , pain Cardiovascular : palpitations Central Nervous System : insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , somnolence Dermatologic : pruritus , rash Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , diarrhea , dry mouth , dyspepsia , flatulence Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , leg cramps Respiratory : chest pain ( nonspecific ) , dyspnea Urogenital : impotence , polyuria Other adverse reactions were reported sporadically with an incidence of 1 . 0 % or less .
These include : Body as a Whole / Systemic : face edema , fever , hot flashes , malaise , periorbital edema , rigors Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , hypotension , increased angina , tachycardia , syncope Central Nervous System : anxiety , ataxia , decreased libido , depression , hypertonia , hypoesthesia , migraine , paroniria , tremor , vertigo Dermatologic : alopecia , increased sweating , urticaria , purpura Gastrointestinal : eructation , gastroesophageal reflux , gum hyperplasia , melena , vomiting , weight increase Musculoskeletal : back pain , gout , myalgias Respiratory : coughing , epistaxis , upper respiratory tract infection , respiratory disorder , sinusitis Special Senses : abnormal lacrimation , abnormal vision , taste perversion , tinnitus Urogenital / Reproductive : breast pain , dysuria , hematuria , nocturia Adverse experiences which occurred in less than 1 in 1000 patients cannot be distinguished from concurrent disease states or medications .
The following adverse experiences , reported in less than 1 % of patients , occurred under conditions ( e . g . , open trials , marketing experience ) where a causal relationship is uncertain : gastrointestinal irritation , gastrointestinal bleeding , gynecomastia .
Gastrointestinal obstruction resulting in hospitalization and surgery , including the need for bezoar removal , has occurred in association with nifedipine extended - release tablets , even in patients with no prior history of gastrointestinal disease .
( See WARNINGS ) Cases of tablet adherence to the gastrointestinal wall with ulceration have been reported , some requiring hospitalization and intervention .
In multiple - dose U . S . and foreign controlled studies with nifedipine capsules in which adverse reactions were reported spontaneously , adverse effects were frequent but generally not serious and rarely required discontinuation of therapy or dosage adjustment .
Most were expected consequences of the vasodilator effects of nifedipine .
Adverse Effect Nifedipine Capsules ( % ) ( N = 226 ) Placebo ( % ) ( N = 235 ) Dizziness , lightheadedness , giddiness 27 15 Flushing , heat sensation 25 8 Headache 23 20 Weakness 12 10 Nausea , heartburn 11 8 Muscle cramps , tremor 8 3 Peripheral edema 7 1 Nervousness , mood changes 7 4 Palpitations 7 5 Dyspnea , cough , wheezing 6 3 Nasal congestion , sore throat 6 8 There is also a large uncontrolled experience in over 2100 patients in the United States .
Most of the patients had vasospastic or resistant angina pectoris , and about half had concomitant treatment with beta - adrenergic blocking agents .
The relatively common adverse events were similar in nature to those seen with nifedipine extended - release tablets .
In addition , more serious adverse events were observed , not readily distinguishable from the natural history of the disease in these patients .
It remains possible , however , that some or many of these events were drug related .
Myocardial infarction occurred in about 4 % of patients and congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema in about 2 % .
Ventricular arrhythmias or conduction disturbances each occurred in fewer than 0 . 5 % of patients .
In a subgroup of over 1000 patients receiving nifedipine with concomitant beta blocker therapy , the pattern and incidence of adverse experiences was not different from that of the entire group of nifedipine - treated patients .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) In a subgroup of approximately 250 patients with a diagnosis of congestive heart failure as well as angina , dizziness or lightheadedness , peripheral edema , headache , or flushing each occurred in one in eight patients .
Hypotension occurred in about one in 20 patients .
Syncope occurred in approximately one patient in 250 .
Myocardial infarction or symptoms of congestive heart failure each occurred in about one patient in 15 .
Atrial or ventricular dysrhythmias each occurred in about one patient in 150 .
In post - marketing experience , there have been rare reports of exfoliative dermatitis caused by nifedipine .
There have been rare reports of exfoliative or bullous skin adverse events ( such as erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) and photosensitivity reactions .
Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis also has been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TWi Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 844 - 518 - 2989 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Experience with nifedipine overdosage is limited .
Generally , overdosage with nifedipine leading to pronounced hypotension calls for active cardiovascular support , including monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory function , elevation of extremities , judicious use of calcium infusion , pressor agents , and fluids .
Clearance of nifedipine would be expected to be prolonged in patients with impaired liver function .
Since nifedipine is highly protein - bound , dialysis is not likely to be of any benefit .
There has been one reported case of massive overdosage with nifedipine extended - release tablets .
The main effects of ingestion of approximately 4800 mg of nifedipine extended - release tablets in a young man attempting suicide as a result of cocaine - induced depression was initial dizziness , palpitations , flushing , and nervousness .
Within several hours of ingestion , nausea , vomiting , and generalized edema developed .
No significant hypotension was apparent at presentation , 18 hours post - ingestion .
Electrolyte abnormalities consisted of a mild , transient elevation of serum creatinine , and modest elevations of LDH and CPK , but normal SGOT .
Vital signs remained stable , no electrocardiographic abnormalities were noted , and renal function returned to normal within 24 to 48 hours with routine supportive measures alone .
No prolonged sequelae were observed .
The effect of a single 900 mg ingestion of nifedipine capsules in a depressed anginal patient also on tricyclic antidepressants was loss of consciousness within 30 minutes of ingestion , and profound hypotension , which responded to calcium infusion , pressor agents , and fluid replacement .
A variety of ECG abnormalities were seen in this patient with a history of bundle branch block , including sinus bradycardia and varying degrees of AV block .
These dictated the prophylactic placement of a temporary ventricular pacemaker , but otherwise resolved spontaneously .
Significant hyperglycemia was seen initially in this patient , but plasma glucose levels rapidly normalized without further treatment .
A young hypertensive patient with advanced renal failure ingested 280 mg of nifedipine capsules at one time , with resulting marked hypotension responding to calcium infusion and fluids .
No AV conduction abnormalities , arrhythmias , or pronounced changes in heart rate were noted , nor was there any further deterioration in renal function .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage must be adjusted according to each patient ’ s needs .
Therapy for either hypertension or angina should be initiated with 30 or 60 mg once daily .
Nifedipine Extended - Release Tablets USP should be swallowed whole and should not be bitten or divided .
In general , titration should proceed over a 7 to 14 day period so that the physician can fully assess the response to each dose level and monitor blood pressure before proceeding to higher doses .
Since steady - state plasma levels are achieved on the second day of dosing , titration may proceed more rapidly , if symptoms so warrant , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
Titration to doses above 120 mg are not recommended .
Angina patients controlled on nifedipine capsules alone or in combination with other antianginal medications may be safely switched to nifedipine extended - release tablets at the nearest equivalent total daily dose ( e . g . , 30 mg t . i . d . of nifedipine capsules may be changed to 90 mg once daily of nifedipine extended - release tablets ) .
Subsequent titration to higher or lower doses may be necessary and should be initiated as clinically warranted .
Experience with doses greater than 90 mg in patients with angina is limited .
Therefore , doses greater than 90 mg should be used with caution and only when clinically warranted .
Avoid coadministration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS : Other Interactions ) .
No “ rebound effect ” has been observed upon discontinuation of nifedipine extended - release tablets .
However , if discontinuation of nifedipine is necessary , sound clinical practice suggests that the dosage should be decreased gradually with close physician supervision .
Care should be taken when dispensing nifedipine extended - release tablets to assure that the extended release dosage form has been prescribed .
Coadministration with Other Antianginal Drugs Sublingual nitroglycerin may be taken as required for the control of acute manifestations of angina , particularly during nifedipine titration .
See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , for information on coadministration of nifedipine with beta blockers or long - acting nitrates .
HOW SUPPLIED Nifedipine extended - release tablets USP are supplied as 90 mg round , biconvex , rose - pink , film - coated tablets with T009 in black ink on one side and plain on the other side : NDC 68071 - 4097 - 3 Bottles of 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Protect from moisture and humidity .
Manufactured for : TWi Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Paramus , NJ 07652 Manufactured by : China Chemical & Pharmaceutical Co . , Ltd .
Tainan City , 72042 , Taiwan OS011 01 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
