Package Insert DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL contains : Glycine USP ..................................................................................... 1 . 5 g Water for Injection USP ...................................................................
qs pH : 6 . 1 ( 4 . 5 - 6 . 5 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 200 mOsmol / liter The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Glycine USP NH2CH2COOH 75 . 07 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous solution suitable for urologic irrigation .
This solution is slightly hypotonic .
The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests – Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The PIC ™ Container is PVC - free and DEHP - free .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is nontoxic , nonhemolytic , not sticky , and has a refractive index close to that of water .
These properties make it useful as a urologic irrigating fluid , particularly during transurethral surgical procedures where the irrigant may be absorbed through cut venous sinuses .
Systemically absorbed glycine is primarily metabolized by transamination to serine , and by deamination to ammonia which is normally removed by its conversion to urea .
A portion of the absorbed glycine is excreted by the kidneys .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is indicated as an irrigant during transurethral prostatic or bladder surgery .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is not for injection .
It is contraindicated in patients with anuria .
WARNINGS Solutions for urologic irrigation must be used with caution in patients with severe cardiopulmonary or renal dysfunction .
The amount of fluid absorbed during a transurethral resection is a function of the volume and hydrostatic pressure of the irrigant used , the number and size of venous sinuses opened , and the duration of the procedure .
Since irrigating fluids used during transurethral prostatectomy have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes , any irrigation solution must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts of fluids containing glycine and the resultant osmotic diuresis may significantly affect cardiopulmonary and renal dynamics .
Absorption of large amounts of irrigating solution can also result in pronounced hyponatremia and water intoxication .
After opening container , the contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservative .
PRECAUTIONS Cardiovascular status , especially in patients with cardiac disease , should be carefully determined before and during transurethral resection of the prostate when using 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP as an irrigant .
The fluid absorbed into the systemic circulation via severed prostatic veins may produce significant extracellular fluid expansion and lead to fulminating congestive heart failure .
Shift of sodium - free intracellular fluid into the extracellular compartment following systemic absorption of 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP may lower serum sodium concentration and aggravate pre - existing hyponatremia .
Excessive loss of water and electrolytes may lead to serious imbalances .
Sustained diuresis from transurethral irrigation with 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP may obscure and intensify inadequate hydration or hypovolemia .
Care should be exercised if impaired liver function is known or suspected .
Under such conditions , ammonia resulting from the metabolism of glycine may accumulate in the blood .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include fluid and electrolyte disorders such as acidosis , electrolyte loss , marked diuresis , urinary retention , edema and dehydration ; cardiovascular / pulmonary disorders such as pulmonary congestion , hypotension , tachycardia , angina - like pain and thrombophlebitis ; other possible reactions include visual disturbances , convulsions , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , vertigo and urticaria .
Literature includes reports on hyponatremia , hyperammonemia , transient blindness , coma ( immediate or delayed ) , and digitalis toxicity in digitalized patients .
If an adverse reaction occurs , discontinue the irrigant and reevaluate the clinical status of the patient .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As required for irrigation .
1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP should be administered only by the appropriate transurethral urologic instrumentation .
It has been reported that absorption is significantly increased if the container is higher than 60 cm ( 24 " ) above the patient .
This drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in plastic irrigating containers .
The 2000 mL containers are packaged 8 per case and the 4000 mL containers are packaged 4 per case .
NDC Cat .
No .
Size 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP ( Canada DIN 01963945 ) 0264 - 2302 - 50 R6415 - 01 2000 mL 0264 - 2302 - 70 R6417 4000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : March 2009 Directions for Use Aseptic technique is required .
1 .
Caution – Before use , perform the following checks : • Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Single dose container .
Not for injection .
2 .
Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt .
Then , twisting the container in the opposite direction , turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off .
3 .
Connect the administration set through the sterile port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Do not warm above 150 ° F to assure minimal bottle distortion .
Keep bottles upright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun Medical Inc .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y36 - 002 - 696 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2000 mL Label 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP For Urologic Irrigation REF R6415 - 01 NDC 0264 - 2302 - 50 DIN 01963945 2000 mL Lot Exp .
Each 100 mL contains : Glycine USP 1 . 5 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 6 . 1 ( 4 . 5 - 6 . 5 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 200 mOsmol / liter Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only PVC - free and DEHP - free B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun Medical Inc .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y37 - 002 - 325 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4000 mL Label 1 . 5 % Glycine Irrigation USP For Urologic Irrigation REF R6417 NDC 0264 - 2302 - 70 DIN 01963945 4000 mL Lot Exp .
Each 100 mL contains : Glycine USP 1 . 5 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 6 . 1 ( 4 . 5 - 6 . 5 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 200 mOsmol / liter Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only PVC - free and DEHP - free B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun Medical Inc .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y37 - 002 - 326 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
