Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate , USP 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm • • for effective relief of itching , scaling , cracking , burning and discomfort Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • • avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • • irritation occurs • • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • wash the affected area and dry thoroughly • • apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor • • supervise children in the use of this product • • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • • if condition lasts longer , contact a doctor • • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • • store at controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
• • before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , mineral oil , oleoyl polyoxylglycerides , pegoxol 7 stearate , purified water Questions ?
1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 between 9 am and 4 pm EST , Monday - Friday .
Distributed by : Actavis Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel NDC 63187 - 885 - 15 Compare to the active ingredient in Micatin ® Antifungal Cream * Antifungal Cream Miconazole Nitrate Cream , USP 2 % Soothes Itching , Scaling , Cracking , and Burning Cures Most Athlete ’ s Foot , Jock Itch & Ringworm Net wt .
0 . 5 oz ( 14 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
