CII Rx only DESCRIPTION ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) Injection is an opioid analgesic chemically designated as N - [ 1 - [ 2 - ( 4 - ethyl - 4 , 5 - dihydro - 5 - oxo - 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) ethyl ] - 4 - ( methoxymethyl ) - 4 - piperidinyl ] - N - phenylpropanamide monohydrochloride ( 1 : 1 ) with a molecular weight of 452 . 98 and an n - octanol : water partition coefficient of 128 : 1 at pH 7 . 4 .
The structural formula of ALFENTA is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ALFENTA is a sterile , non - pyrogenic , preservative free aqueous solution containing alfentanil hydrochloride equivalent to 500 µg per mL of alfentanil base for intravenous injection .
The solution , which contains sodium chloride for isotonicity , has a pH range of 4 - 6 .
Each mL contains : Active : Alfentanil base 500 mcg .
Inactive : Sodium Chloride 9 mg and Water for Injection Q . S . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) is an opioid analgesic with a rapid onset of action .
At doses of 8 - 40 mcg / kg for surgical procedures lasting up to 30 minutes , ALFENTA provides analgesic protection against hemodynamic responses to surgical stress with recovery times generally comparable to those seen with equipotent fentanyl dosages .
For longer procedures , doses of up to 75 mcg / kg attenuate hemodynamic responses to laryngoscopy , intubation and incision , with recovery time comparable to fentanyl .
At doses of 50 - 75 mcg / kg followed by a continuous infusion of 0 . 5 - 3 mcg / kg / min , ALFENTA attenuates the catecholamine response with more rapid recovery and reduced need for postoperative analgesics as compared to patients administered enflurane .
At doses of 5 mcg / kg , ALFENTA provides analgesia for the conscious but sedated patient .
Based on patient response , doses higher than 5 mcg / kg may be needed .
Elderly or debilitated patients may require lower doses .
High intrasubject and intersubject variability in the pharmacokinetic disposition of ALFENTA has been reported .
The pharmacokinetics of ALFENTA can be described as a three - compartment model with sequential distribution half - lives of 1 and 14 minutes ; and a terminal elimination half - life of 90 - 111 minutes ( as compared to a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 475 minutes for fentanyl and approximately 265 minutes for sufentanil at doses of 250 mcg ) .
The liver is the major site of biotransformation .
ALFENTA has an apparent volume of distribution of 0 . 4 - 1 L / kg , which is approximately one - fourth to one - tenth that of fentanyl , with an average plasma clearance of 5 mL / kg / min as compared to approximately 8 mL / kg / min for fentanyl .
Only 1 . 0 % of the dose is excreted as unchanged drug ; urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of metabolites .
Plasma protein binding of ALFENTA is approximately 92 % .
In one study involving 15 patients administered ALFENTA with nitrous oxide / oxygen , a narrow range of plasma ALFENTA concentrations , approximately 310 - 340 ng / mL , was shown to provide adequate anesthesia for intra - abdominal surgery , while lower concentrations , approximately 190 ng / mL , blocked responses to skin closure .
Plasma concentrations between 100 - 200 ng / mL provided adequate anesthesia for superficial surgery .
ALFENTA has an immediate onset of action .
At dosages of approximately 105 mcg / kg , ALFENTA produces hypnosis as determined by EEG patterns ; an anesthetic ED90 of 182 mcg / kg for ALFENTA in unpremedicated patients has been determined , based upon the ability to block response to placement of a nasopharyngeal airway .
Based on clinical trials , induction dosage requirements range from 130 - 245 mcg / kg .
For procedures lasting 30 - 60 minutes , loading dosages of up to 50 mcg / kg produce the hemodynamic response to endotracheal intubation and skin incision as comparable to those from fentanyl .
A pre - intubation loading dose of 50 - 75 mcg / kg prior to a continuous infusion attenuates the response to laryngoscopy , intubation and incision .
Subsequent administration of ALFENTA infusion administered at a rate of 0 . 5 - 3 mcg / kg / min with nitrous oxide / oxygen attenuates sympathetic responses to surgical stress with more rapid recovery than enflurane .
Requirements for volatile inhalation anesthetics were reduced by thirty to fifty percent during the first 60 minutes of maintenance in patients administered anesthetic doses ( above 130 mcg / kg ) of ALFENTA as compared to patients given doses of 4 - 5 mg / kg thiopental for anesthetic induction .
At anesthetic induction dosages , ALFENTA provides a deep level of anesthesia during the first hour of anesthetic maintenance and provides attenuation of the hemodynamic response during intubation and incision .
Following an anesthetic induction dose of ALFENTA , requirements for ALFENTA infusion are reduced by 30 to 50 % for the first hour of maintenance .
Patients with compromised liver function and those over 65 years of age have been found to have reduced plasma clearance and extended terminal elimination for ALFENTA , which may prolong postoperative recovery .
Repeated or continuous administration of ALFENTA produces increasing plasma concentrations and an accumulation of the drug , particularly in patients with reduced plasma clearance .
Bradycardia may be seen in patients administered ALFENTA .
The incidence and degree of bradycardia may be more pronounced when ALFENTA is administered in conjunction with non - vagolytic neuromuscular blocking agents or in the absence of anticholinergic agents such as atropine .
Administration of intravenous diazepam immediately prior to or following high doses of ALFENTA has been shown to produce decreases in blood pressure that may be secondary to vasodilation ; recovery may also be prolonged .
Patients administered doses up to 200 mcg / kg of ALFENTA have shown no significant increase in histamine levels and no clinical evidence of histamine release .
Skeletal muscle rigidity is related to the dose and speed of administration of ALFENTA .
Muscular rigidity will occur with an immediate onset following anesthetic induction dosages .
Preventative measures ( see WARNINGS ) may reduce the rate and severity .
The duration and degree of respiratory depression and increased airway resistance usually increase with dose , but have also been observed at lower doses .
Although higher doses may produce apnea and a longer duration of respiratory depression , apnea may also occur at low doses .
During monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ) , attention must be given to the respiratory effects of ALFENTA Injection .
Decreased oxygen saturation , apnea , decreased respiratory rate , and upper airway obstruction can occur .
( See WARNINGS ) INDICATIONS AND USAGE ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) is indicated : • as an analgesic adjunct given in incremental doses in the maintenance of anesthesia with barbiturate / nitrous oxide / oxygen .
• as an analgesic administered by continuous infusion with nitrous oxide / oxygen in the maintenance of general anesthesia .
• as a primary anesthetic agent for the induction of anesthesia in patients undergoing general surgery in which endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation are required .
• as the analgesic component for monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ) .
SEE DOSAGE CHART FOR MORE COMPLETE INFORMATION ON THE USE OF ALFENTA .
CONTRAINDICATIONS ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or known intolerance to other opioid agonists .
WARNINGS ALFENTA SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED ONLY BY PERSONS SPECIFICALLY TRAINED IN THE USE OF INTRAVENOUS AND GENERAL ANESTHETIC AGENTS AND IN THE MANAGEMENT OF RESPIRATORY EFFECTS OF POTENT OPIOIDS .
AN OPIOID ANTAGONIST , RESUSCITATIVE AND INTUBATION EQUIPMENT AND OXYGEN SHOULD BE READILY AVAILABLE .
BECAUSE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DELAYED RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION , MONITORING OF THE PATIENT MUST CONTINUE WELL AFTER SURGERY .
ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) administered in initial dosages up to 20 mcg / kg may cause skeletal muscle rigidity , particularly of the truncal muscles .
The incidence and severity of muscle rigidity is usually dose - related .
Administration of ALFENTA at anesthetic induction dosages ( above 130 mcg / kg ) will consistently produce muscular rigidity with an immediate onset .
The onset of muscular rigidity occurs earlier than with other opioids .
ALFENTA may produce muscular rigidity that involves all skeletal muscles , including those of the neck and extremities .
The incidence may be reduced by : 1 ) routine methods of administration of neuromuscular blocking agents for balanced opioid anesthesia ; 2 ) administration of up to 1 / 4 of the full paralyzing dose of a neuromuscular blocking agent just prior to administration of ALFENTA at dosages up to 130 mcg / kg ; following loss of consciousness , a full paralyzing dose of a neuromuscular blocking agent should be administered ; or 3 ) simultaneous administration of ALFENTA and a full paralyzing dose of a neuromuscular blocking agent when ALFENTA is used in rapidly administered anesthetic dosages ( above 130 mcg / kg ) .
The neuromuscular blocking agent used should be appropriate for the patient ' s cardiovascular status .
Adequate facilities should be available for postoperative monitoring and ventilation of patients administered ALFENTA .
It is essential that these facilities be fully equipped to handle all degrees of respiratory depression .
PATIENTS RECEIVING MONITORED ANESTHESIA CARE ( MAC ) SHOULD BE CONTINUOUSLY MONITORED BY PERSONS NOT INVOLVED IN THE CONDUCT OF THE SURGICAL OR DIAGNOSTIC PROCEDURE ; OXYGEN SUPPLEMENTATION SHOULD BE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE AND PROVIDED WHERE CLINICALLY INDICATED ; OXYGEN SATURATION SHOULD BE CONTINUOUSLY MONITORED ; THE PATIENT SHOULD BE OBSERVED FOR EARLY SIGNS OF HYPOTENSION , APNEA , UPPER AIRWAY OBSTRUCTION AND / OR OXYGEN DESATURATION .
Severe and unpredictable potentiation of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors has been reported for other opioid analgesics , and rarely with alfentanil .
Therefore when alfentanil is administered to patients who have received MAO inhibitors within 14 days , appropriate monitoring and ready availability of vasodilators and beta - blockers for the treatment of hypertension is recommended .
PRECAUTIONS DELAYED RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION , RESPIRATORY ARREST , BRADYCARDIA , ASYSTOLE , ARRHYTHMIAS AND HYPOTENSION HAVE ALSO BEEN REPORTED .
THEREFORE , VITAL SIGNS MUST BE MONITORED CONTINUOUSLY .
General The initial dose of ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) should be appropriately reduced in elderly and debilitated patients .
The effect of the initial dose should be considered in determining supplemental doses .
In obese patients ( more than 20 % above ideal total body weight ) , the dosage of ALFENTA should be determined on the basis of lean body weight .
In one clinical trial , the dose of ALFENTA required to produce anesthesia , as determined by appearance of delta waves in EEG , was 40 % lower in geriatric patients than that needed in healthy young patients .
In patients with compromised liver function and in geriatric patients , the plasma clearance of ALFENTA may be reduced and postoperative recovery may be prolonged .
Induction doses of ALFENTA should be administered slowly ( over three minutes ) .
Administration may produce loss of vascular tone and hypotension .
Consideration should be given to fluid replacement prior to induction .
Diazepam administered immediately prior to or in conjunction with high doses of ALFENTA may produce vasodilation , hypotension and result in delayed recovery .
Bradycardia produced by ALFENTA may be treated with atropine .
Severe bradycardia and asystole have been successfully treated with atropine and conventional resuscitative methods .
The hemodynamic effects of a particular muscle relaxant and the degree of skeletal muscle relaxation required should be considered in the selection of a neuromuscular blocking agent .
Following an anesthetic induction dose of ALFENTA , requirements for volatile inhalation anesthetics or ALFENTA infusion are reduced by 30 to 50 % for the first hour of maintenance .
ALFENTA infusions should be discontinued at least 10 - 15 minutes prior to the end of surgery during general anesthesia .
During administration of ALFENTA for Monitored Anesthesia Care ( MAC ) , infusions may be continued to the end of the procedure .
Respiratory depression caused by opioid analgesics can be reversed by opioid antagonists such as naloxone .
Because the duration of respiratory depression produced by ALFENTA may last longer than the duration of the opioid antagonist action , appropriate surveillance should be maintained .
As with all potent opioids , profound analgesia is accompanied by respiratory depression and diminished sensitivity to CO2 stimulation which may persist into or recur in the postoperative period .
Intraoperative hyperventilation may further alter postoperative response to CO2 .
Appropriate postoperative monitoring should be employed , particularly after infusions and large doses of ALFENTA , to ensure that adequate spontaneous breathing is established and maintained in the absence of stimulation prior to discharging the patient from the recovery area .
Head Injuries ALFENTA should be used with caution in patients with head injury or increased intracranial pressure , due to the increased risk of respiratory depression .
As with all opioids , ALFENTA may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries and should be used only if clinically indicated .
Impaired Respiration ALFENTA should be used with caution in patients with pulmonary disease , decreased respiratory reserve or potentially compromised respiration .
In such patients , opioids may additionally decrease respiratory drive and increase airway resistance .
During anesthesia , this can be managed by assisted or controlled respiration .
Impaired Hepatic or Renal Function In patients with liver or kidney dysfunction , ALFENTA should be administered with caution due to the importance of these organs in the metabolism and excretion of ALFENTA .
Drug Interactions Both the magnitude and duration of central nervous system and cardiovascular effects may be enhanced when ALFENTA is administered in combination with other CNS depressants such as barbiturates , tranquilizers , opioids , or inhalation general anesthetics .
Postoperative respiratory depression may be enhanced or prolonged by these agents .
In such cases of combined treatment , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
Limited clinical experience indicates that requirements for volatile inhalation anesthetics are reduced by 30 to 50 % for the first sixty ( 60 ) minutes following ALFENTA induction .
The concomitant use of erythromycin with ALFENTA can significantly inhibit ALFENTA clearance and may increase the risk of prolonged or delayed respiratory depression .
Cimetidine reduces the clearance of ALFENTA .
Therefore smaller ALFENTA doses will be required with prolonged administration and the duration of action of ALFENTA may be extended .
Perioperative administration of drugs affecting hepatic blood flow or enzyme function may reduce plasma clearance and prolong recovery .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies of ALFENTA have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
No structural chromosome mutations were produced in the in vivo micronucleus test in female rats at single intravenous doses of ALFENTA as high as 20 mg / kg body weight ( approximately 40 times the upper human dose ) , equivalent to a dose of 103 mg / m2 body surface area .
No dominant lethal mutations were produced in the in vivo dominant lethal test in male and female mice at the maximum intravenous dose of 20 mg / kg ( 60 mg / m2 ) .
No mutagenic activity was revealed in the in vitro Ames Salmonella typhimurium test , with and without metabolic activation .
Pregnancy Category C ALFENTA has been shown to have an embryocidal effect in rats and rabbits when given in doses 2 . 5 times the upper human dose for a period of 10 days to over 30 days .
These effects could have been due to maternal toxicity ( decreased food consumption with increased mortality ) following prolonged administration of the drug .
No evidence of teratogenic effects has been observed after administration of ALFENTA in rats or rabbits .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ALFENTA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Labor and Delivery There are insufficient data to support the use of ALFENTA in labor and delivery .
Placental transfer of the drug has been reported ; therefore , use in labor and delivery is not recommended .
Nursing Mothers In one study of nine women undergoing postpartum tubal ligation , significant levels of ALFENTA were detected in colostrum four hours after administration of 60 mcg / kg of ALFENTA , with no detectable levels present after 28 hours .
Caution should be exercised when ALFENTA is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Adequate data to support the use of ALFENTA in children under 12 years of age are not presently available .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions of opioids are respiratory depression and skeletal muscle rigidity , particularly of the truncal muscles .
ALFENTA may produce muscular rigidity that involves the skeletal muscles of the neck and extremities .
See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS on the management of respiratory depression and skeletal muscle rigidity .
The adverse experience profile from 696 patients receiving ALFENTA for Monitored Anesthesia Care ( MAC ) is similar to the profile established with ALFENTA during general anesthesia .
Respiratory events reported during MAC included hypoxia , apnea , and bradypnea .
Other adverse events reported by patients receiving ALFENTA for MAC , in order of decreasing frequency , were nausea , hypotension , vomiting , pruritus , confusion , somnolence and agitation .
The following adverse reaction information is derived from controlled and open clinical trials in 785 patients who received intravenous ALFENTA during induction and maintenance of general anesthesia .
The controlled trials included treatment comparisons with fentanyl , thiopental sodium , enflurane , saline placebo and halothane .
The incidence of certain side effects is influenced by the type of use , e . g . , chest wall rigidity has a higher reported incidence in clinical trials of alfentanil induction , and by the type of surgery , e . g . , nausea and vomiting have a higher reported incidence in patients undergoing gynecologic surgery .
The overall reports of nausea and vomiting with ALFENTA were comparable to fentanyl .
Incidence Greater than 1 % - Probably Causally Related ( Derived from clinical trials ) Gastrointestinal : nausea ( 28 % ) , vomiting ( 18 % ) Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , bradycardia ( 14 % ) , hypertension ( 18 % ) , hypotension ( 10 % ) , tachycardia ( 12 % ) Musculoskeletal : chest wall rigidity ( 17 % ) , skeletal muscle movements [ 1 ] Respiratory : apnea null , postoperative respiratory depression Central Nervous System : blurred vision , dizziness null , sleepiness / postoperative sedation [ 1 ] Incidence 3 % to 9 % All others 1 % to 3 % Incidence Less than 1 % - Probably Causally Related ( Derived from clinical trials ) Adverse events reported in post - marketing surveillance , not seen in clinical trials , are italicized .
Body as a whole : anaphylaxis Central Nervous System : headache [ 1 ] , myoclonic movements , postoperative confusion null , postoperative euphoria null , shivering null Dermatological : itching null , urticaria * Injection Site : pain null Musculoskeletal : skeletal muscle rigidity of neck and extremities Respiratory : bronchospasm , hypercarbia null , laryngospasm null [ 1 ] Incidence 0 . 3 % to 1 % DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) is a Schedule II controlled drug substance that can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and therefore has the potential for being abused .
Opioid analgesics have been associated with abuse and dependence in health care providers and others with ready access to such drugs .
ALFENTA should be handled accordingly .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage would be manifested by extension of the pharmacological actions of ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) as with other potent opioid analgesics .
No experience of overdosage with ALFENTA was reported during clinical trials .
The intravenous LD50 of ALFENTA is 43 - 51 mg / kg in rats , 72 - 74 mg / kg in mice , 72 - 82 mg / kg in guinea pigs and 60 - 88 mg / kg in dogs .
Intravenous administration of an opioid antagonist such as naloxone should be employed as a specific antidote to manage respiratory depression .
The duration of respiratory depression following overdosage with ALFENTA may be longer than the duration of action of the opioid antagonist .
Administration of an opioid antagonist should not preclude immediate establishment of a patent airway , administration of oxygen , and assisted or controlled ventilation as indicated for hypoventilation or apnea .
If respiratory depression is associated with muscular rigidity , a neuromuscular blocking agent may be required to facilitate assisted or controlled ventilation .
Intravenous fluids and vasoactive agents may be required to manage hemodynamic instability .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) should be individualized and titrated to the desired effect in each patient according to body weight , physical status , underlying pathological condition , use of other drugs , and type and duration of surgical procedure and anesthesia .
In obese patients ( more than 20 % above ideal total body weight ) , the dosage of ALFENTA should be determined on the basis of lean body weight .
The dose of ALFENTA should be reduced in elderly or debilitated patients ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Vital signs should be monitored routinely .
See Dosage Guidelines for the use of ALFENTA : 1 ) by incremental injection as an analgesic adjunct to anesthesia with barbiturate / nitrous oxide / oxygen for short surgical procedures ( expected duration of less than one hour ) ; 2 ) by continuous infusion as a maintenance analgesic with nitrous oxide / oxygen for general surgical procedures ; and 3 ) by intravenous injection in anesthetic doses for the induction of anesthesia for general surgical procedures with a minimum expected duration of 45 minutes ; and 4 ) by intravenous injection as the analgesic component for monitored anesthesia care ( MAC ) .
DOSAGE GUIDELINESDOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED AND TITRATED FOR USE DURING GENERAL ANESTHESIA SPONTANEOUSLY BREATHING / ASSISTED VENTILATION Induction of Analgesia : 8 - 20 mcg / kg Maintenance of Analgesia : 3 - 5 mcg / kg q 5 - 20 min or 0 . 5 to 1 mcg / kg / min Total dose : 8 - 40 mcg / kg ASSISTED OR CONTROLLED VENTILATION Incremental Injection ( To attenuate response to laryngoscopy and intubation ) Induction of Analgesia : 20 - 50 mcg / kg Maintenance of Analgesia : 5 - 15 mcg / kg q 5 - 20 min Total dose : Up to 75 mcg / kg Continuous Infusion ( To provide attenuation of response to intubation and incision ) Infusion rates are variable and should be titrated to the desired clinical effect .
SEE INFUSION DOSAGE GUIDELINES BELOW .
Induction of Analgesia : 50 - 75 mcg / kg Maintenance of Analgesia : 0 . 5 to 3 mcg / kg / min ( Average rate 1 to 1 . 5 mcg / kg / min ) Total dose : Dependent on duration of procedure Anesthetic Induction Induction of Anesthesia : 130 - 245 mcg / kg Maintenance of Anesthesia : 0 . 5 to 1 . 5 mcg / kg / min or general anesthetic Total dose : Dependent on duration of procedure At these doses , truncal rigidity should be expected and a muscle relaxant should be utilized .
Administer slowly ( over 3 minutes ) .
Concentration of inhalation agents reduced by 30 - 50 % for initial hour .
MONITORED ANESTHESIA CARE ( MAC ) ( For sedated and responsive , spontaneously breathing patients ) Induction of MAC : 3 - 8 mcg / kg Maintenance of MAC : 3 - 5 mcg / kg q 5 - 20 min or 0 . 25 to 1 mcg / kg / min Total dose : 3 - 40 mcg / kg INFUSION DOSAGE Continuous Infusion : 0 . 5 - 3 mcg / kg / min administered with nitrous oxide / oxygen in patients undergoing general surgery .
Following an anesthetic induction dose of ALFENTA , infusion rate requirements are reduced by 30 - 50 % for the first hour of maintenance .
Changes in vital signs that indicate a response to surgical stress or lightening of anesthesia may be controlled by increasing the alfentanil to a maximum of 4 mcg / kg / min and / or administration of bolus doses of 7 mcg / kg .
If changes are not controlled after three bolus doses given over a five minute period , a barbiturate , vasodilator , and / or inhalation agent should be used .
Infusion rates should always be adjusted downward in the absence of these signs until there is some response to surgical stimulation .
Rather than an increase in infusion rate , 7 mcg / kg bolus doses of ALFENTA or a potent inhalation agent should be administered in response to signs of lightening of anesthesia within the last 15 minutes of surgery .
ALFENTA infusion should be discontinued at least 10 - 15 minutes prior to the end of surgery .
Usage in Children Clinical data to support the use of ALFENTA in patients under 12 years of age are not presently available .
Therefore , such use is not recommended .
Premedication The selection of preanesthetic medications should be based upon the needs of the individual patient .
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents The neuromuscular blocking agent selected should be compatible with the patient ' s condition , taking into account the hemodynamic effects of a particular muscle relaxant and the degree of skeletal muscle relaxation required ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections ) .
In patients administered anesthetic ( induction ) dosages of ALFENTA , it is essential that qualified personnel and adequate facilities are available for the management of intraoperative and postoperative respiratory depression .
Also see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections .
For purposes of administering small volumes of ALFENTA accurately , the use of a tuberculin syringe or equivalent is recommended .
The physical and chemical compatibility of ALFENTA have been demonstrated in solution with normal saline , 5 % dextrose in normal saline , 5 % dextrose in water and Lactated Ringers .
Clinical studies of ALFENTA infusion have been conducted with ALFENTA diluted to a concentration range of 25 mcg / mL to 80 mcg / mL .
As an example of the preparation of ALFENTA for infusion , 20 mL of ALFENTA added to 230 mL of diluent provides 40 mcg / mL solution of ALFENTA .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
SAFETY AND HANDLING ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) is supplied in individually sealed dosage forms which pose no known risk to health - care providers having incidental contact .
Accidental dermal exposure to ALFENTA should be treated by rinsing the affected area with water .
Protect from light .
Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
HOW SUPPLIED ALFENTA ( alfentanil hydrochloride ) Injection for intravenous use .
Each mL Contains : Active : Alfentanil base 500 mcg .
Inactives : Sodium Chloride 9 mg and WFI Q . S ALFENTA Injection is available as : NDC 11098 - 060 - 02 , 2 mL Ampule in packages of 10 NDC 11098 - 060 - 05 , 5 mL Ampule in packages of 10 NDC 11098 - 060 - 10 , 10 mL Ampule in packages of 5 NDC 11098 - 060 - 20 , 20 mL Ampule in packages of 5 U . S . Patent No . 4 , 167 , 574 May 1995 , November 1995 TAYLOR PHARMACEUTICALS AN AKORN COMPANY Decatur , IL 62522 AFA0N Rev . 06 / 05
