Rx only DESCRIPTION Proparacaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is a topical local anesthetic for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the structural formula : Established name : Proparacaine Hydrochloride Chemical name : Benzoic acid , 3 - amino - 4 - propoxy - , 2 - ( diethylamino ) ethyl ester , monohydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular weight : 330 . 85 Each mL contains : Active : proparacaine hydrochloride 5 mg ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Inactives : glycerin and purified water .
The pH may be adjusted with hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is a rapidly - acting topical anesthetic , with induced anesthesia lasting approximately 10 - 20 minutes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is indicated for procedures in which a topical ophthalmic anesthetic is indicated ; corneal anesthesia of short duration , e . g . tonometry , gonioscopy , removal of corneal foreign bodies and for short corneal and conjunctival procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation .
WARNINGS NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE - FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Prolonged use of a topical ocular anesthetic is not recommended .
It may produce permanent corneal opacification with accompanying visual loss .
PRECAUTIONS Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenicity or possible impairment of fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Proparacaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % .
It is also not known whether proparacaine hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Proparacaine hydrochloride should be administered to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when proparacaine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of proparacaine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution in pediatric patients have been established .
Use of proparacaine hydrochloride is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies in adults and children over the age of twelve , and safety information in neonates and other pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use No overall clinical differences in safety of effectiveness have been observed between the elderly and other adult patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Occasional temporary stinging , burning and conjunctival redness may occur with the use of proparacaine .
A rare , severe , immediate - type , apparently hyperallergic corneal reaction characterized by acute , intense and diffuse epithelial keratitis , a gray , ground glass appearance , sloughing of large areas of necrotic epithelium , corneal filaments and sometimes iritis with descemetitis has been reported .
Allergic contact dermatitis from proparacaine with drying and fissuring of the fingertips has been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual dosage : Removal of foreign bodies and sutures , and for tonometry : 1 to 2 drops ( in single instillations ) in each eye before operating .
Short corneal and conjunctival procedures : 1 drop in each eye every 5 to 10 minutes for 5 to 7 doses .
NOTE : Proparacaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % should be clear , colorless to faint yellow color .
If the solution becomes darker , discard the solution .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY HOW SUPPLIED Proparacaine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip and a white polypropylene cap in the following size : NDC 68071 - 4368 - 5 bottles of 15 mL Storage Refrigerate at 2 ° - 8 ° C ( 36 ° - 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Keep tightly closed .
DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised : July 2016 Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9114403 ( Folded ) 9114503 ( Flat ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
