Active ingredient Docosanol 10 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Uses • treats cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • shortens healing time and duration of symptoms : • tingling , pain , burning , and / or itching Warnings Allergy Alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may cause : • hives • facial swelling • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • rash if an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
For External use only Do not use • if you are allergic to any ingredient in this product When using this product • apply only to the affected areas • do not use in or near the eyes • avoid applying directly inside your mouth • do not share this product with anyone .
This may spread the infection .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your cold sore gets worse or the cold sore is not healed within 10 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years or over : • wash hands before and after applying cream • apply to affected area on the face or lips at the first sign of cold sore / fever blister ( tingle ) .
• early treatment ensures the best results • rub in gently but completely • use 5 times a day until healed • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • do not freeze Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , light mineral oil , propylene glycol , purified water , sucrose distearate , sucrose stearate Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free : 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM Principal display panel Compare to Abreva ® active ingredient ** Cold Sore Treatment Docosanol Cream 10 % Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment • Non - prescription medicine to shorten healing time * • Cold sore treatment • For topical use only NET WT g ( oz ) * Non - prescription cold sore medicine to shorten healing time and duration of symptoms .
** This product is not manufactured or distributed by GSK Consumer Healthcare , distributor of Abreva ® RETAIN THIS INSERT FOR FULL PRODUCT USES , DIRECTIONS AND WARNINGS .
MADE WITH PRIDE AND CARE FOR H - E - B ® , SAN ANTONIO , TX 78204 Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
