Description PYtest [ 1 ] ( 14 C - urea capsules ) is intended for use in the detection of gastric urease as an aid in the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) infection in the human stomach .
The test utilizes a liquid scintillation counter for the measurement of 14CO2 in breath samples .
The capsules are to be used when analysis is planned at the site where the sample is taken .
PYtest null capsule is a gelatin capsule for oral administration containing 1 µCi of 14 C labeled urea .
The urea is adsorbed on sugar spheres and colored yellow with fluorescein .
[ 1 ] Registered Trademark or Trademark of Kimberly - Clark Worldwide , Inc .
Data on 14 C - urea Structural Formula ( 14 C - urea ) : NH2 14CONH2 Radiation emission : beta - emission , 49 keVmean , 156 keVmax , no other emissions External emission : No external radiation hazard .
Low - energy beta emissions only .
Maximum range of 0 . 3 mm in water .
Radiological Half - life : 5730 years Maximum effective dose equivalent ( EDE ) : 0 . 3 mrem / µCi Clinical Pharmacology The urease enzyme is not present in mammalian cells , so the presence of urease in the stomach is evidence that bacteria are present .
The presence of urease is not specific for H . pylori , but other bacteria are not usually found in the stomach .
The principle of the breath test is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Principle of Breath Test [ MULTIMEDIA ] To detect H . pylori , urea labeled with 14 C is swallowed by the patient .
If gastric urease from H . pylori is present , urea is split to form CO2 and NH3 at the interface between the gastric epithelium and lumen and 14CO2 is absorbed into the blood and exhaled in the breath .
Following ingestion of the capsule by a patient with H . pylori , 14CO2 excretion in the breath peaks between 10 and 15 minutes and declines thereafter with a biological half - life of about 15 minutes .
14 C - urea that is not hydrolyzed by H . pylori is excreted in the urine with a half - life of approximately 12 hours .
About 10 % of the 14 C remains in the body at 72 hours and is gradually excreted with a biological half - life of 40 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Studies Two studies were performed .
In both studies , patients with gastrointestinal symptoms underwent the breath test and an endoscopy .
During the endoscopy , biopsy samples were taken from the antral gastric mucosa for histological analysis ( 2 samples , Giemsa stain ) and rapid urease test ( 1 sample , CLOtest null ) .
Breath samples were mailed to the TRI - MED lab where they were read in a liquid scintillation counter .
Results were reported as disintegrations per minute ( DPM ) .
Analysis for accuracy used the ten minute breath sample .
A breath sample DPM < 50 was defined as a negative result .
DPM ≥ 200 was defined as a positive result .
DPM in the range of 50 – 199 was classified as indeterminate .
STUDY 1 Of 186 patients who had histopathology and CLOtest null ( 80 men , 106 women ) , 53 were infected with H . pylori as determined by agreement between histology and CLOtest null .
The study results are summarized below : Table 1 : Study # 1 ( n = 186 , Indeterminate results included ) Histology and CLOtest null H . pylori Positive Negative Total Notes : PYtest null at 10 min .
was compared to the gold standard of biopsy results in which histology and CLOtest null concurred .
Patients who did not have both biopsy tests performed , or in whom the tests differed , were excluded from analysis .
There was no statistical difference in test accuracy based on gender of patient .
ppv = positive predictive value ( true positive divided by total PYtest null positive ) npv = negative predictive value ( true negative divided by total PYtest null negative ) PYtest null Positive 51 8 59 ppv .
86 % ( DPM Indeterminate 1 8 9 10 min . )
Negative 1 117 118 npv .
99 % Total 53 133 186 sensitivity specificity 96 % 88 % STUDY 2 Breath tests were performed on 436 outpatients attending gastroenterology practices at sites in the United States .
Seventy - six patients ( 40 men , 36 women ) who had histology and CLOtest null were evaluated .
The results are summarized below : Table 2 : Study # 2 ( n = 76 , Indeterminate results included ) Histology and CLOtest null H . pylori Positive Negative Total Notes : PYtest at 10 min .
was compared to the gold standard of biopsy results in which histology and CLOtest concurred .
Patients who did not have both biopsy tests performed , or in whom the tests differed , were excluded from analysis .
There was no statistical difference in test accuracy based on gender of patient .
ppv = positive predictive value ( true positive divided by total PYtest null positive ) npv = negative predictive value ( true negative divided by total PYtest null negative ) PYtest null Positive 22 0 22 ppv .
100 % ( DPM Indeterminate 4 2 6 10 min . )
Negative 1 47 48 npv .
98 % Total 27 49 76 sensitivity specificity 82 % 96 % Indications and Usage PYtest null ( 14 C - Urea breath test ) is indicated for use in the detection of gastric urease as an aid in the diagnosis of H . pylori infection in the human stomach .
The test utilizes a liquid scintillation counter for the measurement of 14CO2 in breath samples .
Contraindications None Warnings None Precautions General After the patient ingests the 14 C - urea capsule , the sample collected for test purposes is for in vitro diagnostic use only .
A false positive test could occur in patients who have achlorhydria .
Very rarely , a false positive test may occur due to urease associated with Helicobacters other than H . pylori ( i . e . Helicobacter heilmanni ) .
Limitations of the Test • The test has been evaluated in outpatients before elective endoscopy .
• Test results should be evaluated with clinical signs and patient history when diagnosing H . pylori infection .
• The performance characteristics of the test have not been established for monitoring the efficacy of antimicrobial therapies for the treatment of H . pylori infection .
• A negative result does not completely rule out the possibility of H . pylori infection .
If clinical signs and patient history suggest H . pylori infection , repeat the PYtest null or use an alternative diagnostic method .
Radioactivity Persons concerned about very low doses of radioactivity may postpone the test or may decide to use an alternative means of diagnosis .
The test produces radiation exposure equal to 24 hours of normal background .
In animal experiments , such low doses of radiation do not carry measurable risk .
Preclinical studies were not conducted on 14 C - urea .
The estimated dose equivalent received from a single administration of PYtest null ( 1 µCi 14 C ) is about 0 . 3 mrem .
Information for Patients It is necessary for the patient to fast for 6 hours before the test .
The patient should also be off antibiotics and bismuth for 1 month , and proton pump inhibitors and sucralfate for 2 weeks prior to the test .
Instruct the patient not to handle the capsule directly as this may interfere with the test result .
The capsule should be swallowed intact .
Do not chew the capsule .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility No studies have been conducted with 14 C - urea to evaluate its potential for carcinogenicity , impairment of fertility , or mutagenicity .
Drug Interactions Antibiotics , proton pump inhibitors , sucralfate , and bismuth preparations are known to suppress H . pylori .
Ingestion of antibiotics or bismuth within 4 weeks and proton pump inhibitors or sucralfate within 2 weeks prior to performing the test may give false negative results .
Pregnancy Pregnancy category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PYtest null ( 14 C - urea ) .
It is also not known whether PYtest null can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
PYtest null should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when PYtest null is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Clinical studies in children have not been conducted .
However , PYtest null is expected to work the same in children as in adults .
While the dose ( 1 capsule ) does not need to be adjusted , the child must be able to swallow the intact capsule and blow into a straw .
Adverse Reactions No adverse reactions were reported in clinical trials .
Overdosage Risk from radiation is negligible even with a 1000 capsule overdose ( 0 . 3 rem ) .
If overdose occurs , the patient may drink one glass of water ( 150 ml ) every hour to hasten excretion of the isotope .
Maximum excretion of urea is achieved at a urine output of ≥ 2 . 0 ml / min .
Dosage and Administration Materials Needed but not Provided FOR ANALYSIS AT TEST SITE BREATH SAMPLE COLLECTED INTO BALLOON ( RECOMMENDED METHOD ; SEE FIGURE 2 ) • Breath test report form • Stopwatch / Timer capable of timing an interval up to 10 minutes • Marking pen • 1 – 20 ml scintillation vial • Breath transfer pump • Pipette ( 10 ml ) for measuring fluids • Collection fluid ( 2 . 5 ml / vial ) • Scintillation fluid ( 10 ml / vial ) • 1 – Mylar collection balloon • 1 – Straw • 2 – Needles • 2 – 30 ml medicine cups • Water ( 40 ml ) • Any gas pump that is airtight and has a flow rate between . 5 and 1 liter per minute may be used .
Figure 2 : Other Components [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] FOR ANALYSIS ON SITE BREATH SAMPLE COLLECTED INTO VIAL CAUTION : Kimberly - Clark does not endorse breath sample collection by this method because patients might come into direct contact with the hyamine .
• Breath test report form • Stopwatch / Timer capable of timing an interval up to 10 minutes • Safety trap ( Figure 3 ) • 1 – Straw • 1 – 20 ml scintillation vial • Marking pen • Pipette ( 10 ml ) for measuring fluids • Collection fluid ( 2 . 5 ml / vial ) • Scintillation fluid ( 10 ml / vial ) Figure 3 : Typical Safety Trap [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosage One PYtest null capsule .
Procedural Notes • Inform the patient to fast for 6 hours prior to the test .
• The patient should be off antibiotics and bismuth for 1 month , and proton pump inhibitors and sucralfate for 2 weeks prior to the test .
• Have patient sitting at rest while doing the test .
• The capsule should not be handled directly as this may interfere with the test result .
• To avoid contamination by bacteria in the mouth , the capsule should be swallowed intact .
Do not chew capsule .
Step by Step Procedure for Balloon Breath Sample Collection by BalloonBefore the test • Label balloon and fill in breath test report form .
• Check that all materials are present .
Minus 1 minute • Open the package containing the 14 C - urea capsule and 1 minute tip the capsule into the empty 30 ml cup .
Do not handle the capsule directly .
• Hand the cup to the patient .
• Fill the second cup with 20 ml lukewarm water .
0 minute • Ask the patient to tip the capsule directly into his / her mouth , then swallow it with the 20 ml of lukewarm water .
• Start the stopwatch when the patient swallows the capsule .
• Discard waste ( e . g . , capsule packaging , used straws ) according to your facility ' s regulations .
3 minutes Ask the patient to drink another 20 ml of lukewarm water ( in case the capsule may have lodged in the esophagus and not yet reached the gastric mucosa ) .
10 minutes • Push a drinking straw into the neck of the balloon .
• Ask the patient to hold his / her breath for 5 – 10 seconds , then blow up a balloon with a slow breath through the straw , filling the balloon completely .
• Tie the neck of the balloon into a tight knot .
• Check that the balloon label and the breath test report form are completed correctly .
After sample collection See test analysis procedure .
Breath Sample Collection by VialCAUTION : Kimberly - Clark does not endorse the collection of breath samples by this method for patient safety reasons .
Before the test • Label vial and fill in breath test report form .
Vial label should include the patient ' s name , date of sample collection and time sample is taken .
• Check that the vial contains 2 . 5 ml of collection fluid ( 1 . 5 ml methanol , 1 . 0 ml 1 molar hyamine , two drops thymolphthalein pH indicator ) .
• Check that all materials are present .
Minus 2 minutes Attach a straw to the safety trap ( Figure 3 ) .
Minus 1 minute • Open the package containing the 14 C - urea capsule and tip the capsule into the 30 ml cup .
Do not handle the capsule directly .
• Hand the cup to the patient .
• Fill the second cup with 20 ml lukewarm water .
0 minute • Ask the patient to tip the capsule directly into his / her mouth , then swallow it with the 20 ml of lukewarm water .
• Start the stopwatch when the patient swallows the capsule .
• Discard waste ( e . g . , capsule packaging , used straw ) according to your facility ' s regulations .
3 minutes Ask the patient to drink another 20 ml of lukewarm water ( in case the capsule may have lodged in the esophagus and not yet reached the gastric mucosa ) .
10 minutes Ask the patient to hold his / her breath for 5 – 10 seconds , then blow bubbles into the collection fluid via the safety trap .
The patient should blow bubbles until the fluid turns clear .
Put lid on vial .
After sample collection See test analysis procedure .
Test Analysis Procedure General Information • The collection fluid contains hyamine , methanol and a pH indicator .
Hyamine is a corrosive caustic alkali .
If you are using the vial method and collecting breath directly into the collection fluid you must supervise the patient and ensure that a safety trap is used .
• The amount of hyamine ( 1 ml of 1 / m ) and methanol ( 2 . 5 ml ) in one collection vial is not sufficient to cause serious poisoning .
Local irritation to skin or mucous membranes is likely when the solution is blue .
After collecting CO2 the collection fluid turns clear .
At this point it is less dangerous because the pH is near neutral .
• If the collection fluid splashes onto the skin or eyes , wash immediately with water .
If the collection fluid is accidentally ingested , wash the mouth with water and have the patient drink 250 ml of water immediately .
Consult your poison information center for further facts on hyamine .
• Scintillation fluid comes in many formulations .
It is usually a mixture of toluene and various cyclic hydrocarbons .
It is flammable .
Biodegradable formulations do exist .
Consult your supplier if you have questions .
BALLOON READ ON - SITE : • Add 2 . 5 ml collection fluid to each vial .
• Label the scintillation vial lid to match the label on the balloon .
• Attach a needle to the inlet and outlet tubes on the pump .
• Turn on pump .
Allow to run for about 15 seconds .
• Put needle from the rigid outlet tube in a vial until it makes bubbles in the collection fluid .
• Pierce the label of a filled balloon with the other needle and hold it in a stable position .
( Do not pierce the balloon anywhere else or it may tear .
Do not squeeze the balloon . )
• After 2 – 3 minutes the collection fluid should turn colorless .
• After the collection fluid is colorless , remove the needles from the balloon and collection fluid and discard according to your facility protocol .
• Change needles between patients .
• Turn off pump after last patient sample is transferred .
• Double check that the label on the vial lid matches the label on the balloon .
• Add 10 ml scintillation fluid to each vial and mix fluid .
• Count the sample in liquid scintillation counter for 5 minutes or as directed by the liquid scintillation counter manufacturer .
( Note that values of 50 – 300 DPM can occur immediately after the addition of the scintillation fluid due to chemiluminescence .
Chemiluminescence decays rapidly over an hour or two and will reveal itself by falling counts .
Read the sample repeatedly until values 10 minutes apart are similar .
If DPM is still 50 – 300 , you should allow the sample to settle for 12 – 24 hours before re - testing . )
• Include a standard and a blank control vial in each run .
VIALS READ ON - SITE See steps 12 – 14 under " Balloon read on - site . "
Quality Control A minimum of 1 mmol of CO2 is required to perform analysis of a breath sample .
The amount of breath required to provide 1 mmol of CO2 varies depending on the amount of CO2 the patient is producing .
Since a full balloon typically contains at least 1 mmol of CO2 , the balloon should be completely filled .
Results Interpretation of results ( 10 minute sample ) < 50 DPM Negative for H . pylori 50 – 199 DPM Indeterminate for H . pylori ≥ 200 DPM Positive for H . pylori The indeterminate result should be evaluated by repeating the PYtest null or using an alternative diagnostic method .
If repeat breath testing is undertaken , careful history to exclude confounding factors should be obtained .
If confounding factors are identified , wait an appropriate time ( refer to table 3 ) before repeating the PYtest null .
The cutoff point of 50 DPM was determined to be the mean + 3 SD of results obtained in patients who did not have H . pylori .
DPM = Disintegrations per minute Table 3 : Factors which might cause sub - optimal breath test resultsFactor Result Comment Recent antibiotic or bismuth ( Pepto - Bismol , etc . ) false neg .
Relapse of partially treated Hp may take 1 – 4 weeks .
Omeprazole ( or other proton pump inhibitors ) false neg .
These agents suppress Hp in 40 % of patients .
Discontinuefor at least 2 weeks before performing the PYtest null .
Resective gastric surgery false neg .
Isotope may empty rapidly from the stomach .
Resective gastric surgery false pos .
Patient may be achlorhydric and have bacterial overgrowth ( non - Hp urease ) .
Food in stomach ( also bezoar , gastroparesis ) unknown Isotope may not come into contact with gastric mucosa Patient may be achlorhydric and / or have bacterial overgrowth ( non - Hp urease ) .
Expected Values As shown in Figure 4 approximately 30 % of patients tested will be positive for H . pylori .
Figure 4 : Histogram showing DPM distribution for the PYtest null .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * Note : DPM groupings were calculated on a logarithmic scale .
Empty DPM groupings were not included .
Chart includes all patients from Studies 1 and 2 .
Frequency of DPM group includes samples with DPM < Group Name .
• DPM = Disintegrations per minute • Gold Standard = Agreement between histology and CLOtest null If the capsule is damaged or appears abnormal in any way , it may give inaccurate results .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED PYtest null Capsules , clear gelatin capsules each containing 1 μCi of 14 C - urea in unit dose packages of 1 , 10 and 100 .
PYtest null Kit ( 14 C - urea breath test ) is also supplied as a kit containing a PYtest null Capsule and breath collection equipment .
The PYtest null Capsule has a shelf life of two years .
The expiration date is printed on the capsule label .
PYtest null Capsules and Kit should be stored at 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) in an area designated by each individual institution ' s regulations .
Rx Only ( USA ) U . S . Patent Nos . 4 , 748 , 113 ; 4 , 830 , 010 Kimberly - Clark Distributed in the U . S . by Kimberly - Clark Global Sales , LLC , Roswell , GA 30076 USA In USA , please call 1 - 800 - KCHELPS • www . kchealthcare . com Kimberly - Clark , Roswell , GA 30076 USA Kimberly - Clark N . V . , Belgicastraat 13 , 1930 Zaventem , Belgium Sponsored in Australia by Kimberly - Clark Australia Pty Limited ; 52 Alfred Street Milsons Point , NSW 2061 • 1 - 800 - 101 - 021 © 2003 KCWW .
All rights reserved .
14 - 63 - 133 - 0 - 00 / 70080916 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 Capsule Package Label AVANOS * PYtest * 14 C - UREA BREATH TEST CAPSULES FOR THE DETECTION OF HELICOBACTER PYLORI Contents – 10 PYtest * Capsules each containing 1 µCi 14 C - Urea For dosage information , please see package insert 14 C - Urea ( 5730 years1 / 2 , 156 keV [ max . ]
β - emission ) NDC 42536 - 6044 - 2 For In Vitro Diagnostic Use Rx Only Store at 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) REF 60442 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
