WARNING : LOSS OF BONE MINERAL DENSITY Women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection may lose significant bone mineral density .
Bone loss is greater with increasing duration of use and may not be completely reversible .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection during adolescence or early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion , will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection should not be used as a long - term birth control method ( i . e . , longer than 2 years ) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LOSS OF BONE MINERAL DENSITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection may lose significant bone mineral density .
Bone loss is greater with increasing duration of use and may not be completely reversible .
( 5 . 1 ) • It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection during adolescence or early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion , will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life .
( 5 . 1 ) • Medroxyprogesterone acetate Contraceptive Injection should not be used as a long - term birth control method ( i . e . , longer than 2 years ) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate .
( 5 . 1 ) Dosage and Administration , Prevention of Pregnancy ( 2 . 1 ) 11 / 2016 Warnings and Precautions , Injection Site Reactions ( 5 . 6 ) 11 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Medroxyprogesterone acetate is indicated only for the prevention of pregnancy .
The loss of bone mineral density ( BMD ) in women of all ages and the impact on peak bone mass in adolescents should be considered , along with the decrease in BMD that occurs during pregnancy and / or lactation , in the risk / benefit assessment for women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate long - term [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Medroxyprogesterone acetate is a progestin indicated only for the prevention of pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose is 150 mg of Medroxyprogesterone acetate every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) administered by deep , intramuscular ( IM ) injection in the gluteal or deltoid muscle .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Prevention of Pregnancy Both the 1 mL vial and the 1 mL prefilled syringe of Medroxyprogesterone acetate should be vigorously shaken just before use to ensure that the dose being administered represents a uniform suspension .
The recommended dose is 150 mg of Medroxyprogesterone acetate every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) administered by deep intramuscular ( IM ) injection using strict aseptic technique in the gluteal or deltoid muscle , rotating the sites with every injection .
As with any IM injection , to avoid an inadvertent subcutaneous injection , body habitus should be assessed prior to each injection to determine if a longer needle is necessary particularly for gluteal IM injection .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be used as a long - term birth control method ( i . e . longer than 2 years ) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate .
Dosage does not need to be adjusted for body weight [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
To ensure the patient is not pregnant at the time of the first injection , the first injection should be given ONLY during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period ; ONLY within the first 5 - days postpartum if not breast - feeding ; and if exclusively breast - feeding , ONLY at the sixth postpartum week .
If the time interval between injections is greater than 13 weeks , the physician should determine that the patient is not pregnant before administering the drug .
The efficacy of Medroxyprogesterone acetate depends on adherence to the dosage schedule of administration .
2 . 2 Switching from other Methods of Contraception When switching from other contraceptive methods , Medroxyprogesterone acetate should be given in a manner that ensures continuous contraceptive coverage based upon the mechanism of action of both methods , ( e . g . , patients switching from oral contraceptives should have their first injection of Medroxyprogesterone acetate on the day after the last active tablet or at the latest , on the day following the final inactive tablet ) .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sterile Aqueous suspension : 150 mg / ml Prefilled syringes are available packaged with a 22 - gauge × 1 1 / 2 inch Needle Pro ® EDGE ™ Safety Device .
• Vials containing sterile aqueous suspension : 150 mg per mL ( 3 ) • Prefilled syringes : prefilled syringes are available packaged with 22 - gauge × 1 1 / 2 inch Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ Safety Device ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy .
• Active thrombophlebitis , or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders , or cerebral vascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Known or suspected malignancy of breast [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to Medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Significant liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Known or suspected pregnancy or as a diagnostic test for pregnancy .
( 4 ) • Active thrombophlebitis , or current or past history of thromboembolic disorders , or cerebral vascular disease .
( 4 ) • Known or suspected malignancy of breast .
( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of its other ingredients ) .
( 4 ) • Significant liver disease .
( 4 ) • Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Thromboembolic Disorders : Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone acetate in patients who develop thrombosis ( 5 . 2 ) • Cancer Risks : Monitor women with a strong family history of breast cancer carefully .
( 5 . 3 ) • Ectopic Pregnancy : Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Medroxyprogesterone acetate becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain .
( 5 . 4 ) • Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions : Provide emergency medical treatment .
( 5 . 5 ) • Liver Function : Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone acetate if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop .
( 5 . 6 ) • Carbohydrate Metabolism : Monitor diabetic patients carefully .
( 5 . 11 ) 5 . 1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density ( BMD ) .
This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life .
After discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone acetate in adolescents , mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months ( 240 weeks ) post - treatment .
Similarly , in adults , there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip , femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post - treatment .
After discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone acetate in adolescents , mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months ( 240 weeks ) post - treatment [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
Similarly , in adults , there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip , femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post - treatment .
[ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) . ]
Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be used as a long - term birth control method ( i . e . , longer than 2 years ) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate .
BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone acetate long - term .
In adolescents , interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity . Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be used as a long - term birth control method ( i . e . , longer than 2 years ) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate .
BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone acetate long - term .
In adolescents , interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity .
Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk / benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate in women with osteoporosis risk factors .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis ( e . g . , metabolic bone disease , chronic alcohol and / or tobacco use , anorexia nervosa , strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids ) .
Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake . Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk / benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate in women with osteoporosis risk factors .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis ( e . g . , metabolic bone disease , chronic alcohol and / or tobacco use , anorexia nervosa , strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids ) .
Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake .
5 . 2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 150 mg ) .
However , Medroxyprogesterone acetate has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders .
Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Medroxyprogesterone acetate should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control .
Do not readminister Medroxyprogesterone acetate pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis , diplopia , or migraine .
Do not readminister if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions .
5 . 3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who have or have had a history of breast cancer should not use hormonal contraceptives , including Medroxyprogesterone acetate , because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Women with a strong family history of breast cancer should be monitored with particular care .
The results of five large case - control studies 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 assessing the association between depomedroxyprogesterone acetate ( DMPA ) use and the risk of breast cancer are summarized in Figure 1 .
Three of the studies suggest a slightly increased risk of breast cancer in the overall population of users ; these increased risks were statistically significant in one study .
One recent US study 1 evaluated the recency and duration of use and found a statistically significantly increased risk of breast cancer in recent users ( defined as last use within the past five years ) who used DMPA for 12 months or longer ; this is consistent with results of a previous study 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Odds ratio estimates were adjusted for the following covariates : Lee et al . ( 1987 ) : age , parity , and socioeconomic status .
Paul et al . ( 1989 ) : age , parity , ethnic group , and year of interview .
WHO ( 1991 ) : age , center , and age at first live birth .
Shapiro et al . ( 2000 ) : age , ethnic group , socioeconomic status , and any combined estrogen / progestogen oral contraceptive use .
Li et al . ( 2012 ) : age , year , BMI , duration of OC use , number of full - term pregnancies , family history of breast cancer , and history of screening mammography .
Based on the published SEER - 18 2011 incidence rate ( age - adjusted to the 2000 US Standard Population ) of breast cancer for US women , all races , age 20 to 49 years6 , a doubling of risk would increase the incidence of breast cancer in women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate from about 72 to about 144 cases per 100 , 000 women .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous - cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years ( RR 1 . 22 to 1 . 28 and 95 % CI 0 . 93 to 1 . 70 ) .
The overall , nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous - cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Medroxyprogesterone acetate was estimated to be 1 . 11 ( 95 % CI 0 . 96 to 1 . 29 ) .
No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed .
Other Cancers Long - term case - controlled surveillance of users of Medroxyprogesterone acetate found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer .
5 . 4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain .
5 . 5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs .
5 . 6 Injection Site Reactions Injection site reactions have been reported with use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Persistent injection site reactions may occur after administration of Medroxyprogesterone acetate due to inadvertent subcutaneous administration or release of the drug into the subcutaneous space while removing the needle [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Liver Function Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone acetate use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop .
Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Medroxyprogesterone acetate causation has been excluded .
5 . 8 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Association with drug use or pre - existing conditions is not clear .
5 . 9 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Medroxyprogesterone acetate if depression recurs .
5 . 10 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns .
Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea , irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting , prolonged spotting or bleeding , and heavy bleeding .
Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe , and institute appropriate treatment .
As women continue using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea .
In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone acetate , by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55 % of women , and by month 24 , amenorrhea was reported by 68 % of women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
5 . 11 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
From an initial average body weight of 136 lb , women who completed 1 year of therapy with Medroxyprogesterone acetate gained an average of 5 . 4 lb .
Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8 . 1 lb .
Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13 . 8 lb .
Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16 . 5 lb .
Two percent of women withdrew from a large - scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain .
5 . 12 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Medroxyprogesterone acetate treatment .
Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
5 . 13 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
In nursing mothers treated with Medroxyprogesterone acetate , milk composition , quality , and amount are not adversely affected .
Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty .
No adverse effects have been noted .
5 . 14 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including Medroxyprogesterone acetate may cause some degree of fluid retention , monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition , such as epilepsy , migraine , asthma , and cardiac or renal dysfunction .
5 . 15 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate to become pregnant , data are available for 61 % of them .
Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant , 114 became pregnant .
Based on Life - Table analysis of these data , it is expected that 68 % of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months , 83 % may conceive within 15 months , and 93 % may conceive within 18 months from the last injection .
The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months , and is unrelated to the duration of use .
No data are available for 39 % of the patients who discontinued Medroxyprogesterone acetate to become pregnant and who were lost to follow - up or changed their mind .
5 . 16 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that Medroxyprogesterone acetate does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
5 . 17 Pregnancy Although Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be used during pregnancy , there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy .
Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in - utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical , intellectual , sexual or social development .
5 . 18 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
5 . 19 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate may change the results of some laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
[ See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section ( 5 ) : • Loss of Bone Mineral Density [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Thromboembolic disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Breast Cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Bleeding Irregularities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Weight Gain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 5 % ) are : menstrual irregularities ( bleeding or spotting ) 57 % at 12 months , 32 % at 24 months , abdominal pain / discomfort 11 % , weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38 % , dizziness 6 % , headache 17 % , nervousness 11 % , decreased libido 6 % .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 423 - 4136 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the two clinical trials with Medroxyprogesterone acetate , over 3 , 900 women , who were treated for up to 7 years , reported the following adverse reactions , which may or may not be related to the use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years , of which 46 % were White , 50 % Non - White , and 4 . 9 % Unknown race .
The patients received 150 mg Medroxyprogesterone acetate every 3 - months ( 90 days ) .
The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1 – 84 months .
Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34 % after 24 months .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5 % of SubjectsBody System [ 1 ] Adverse Reactions [ Incidence ( % ) ] Body as a Whole Headache ( 16 . 5 % ) Abdominal pain / discomfort ( 11 . 2 % ) Metabolic / Nutritional Increased weight > 10 lbs at 24 months ( 37 . 7 % ) Nervous Nervousness ( 10 . 8 % ) Dizziness ( 5 . 6 % ) Libido decreased ( 5 . 5 % ) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities : bleeding ( 57 . 3 % at 12 months , 32 . 1 % at 24 months ) amenorrhea ( 55 % at 12 months , 68 % at 24 months ) [ 1 ] Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5 % of SubjectsBody System [ 1 ] Adverse Reactions [ Incidence ( % ) ] Body as a Whole Asthenia / fatigue ( 4 . 2 % ) Backache ( 2 . 2 % ) Dysmenorrhea ( 1 . 7 % ) Hot flashes ( 1 . 0 % ) Digestive Nausea ( 3 . 3 % ) Bloating ( 2 . 3 % ) Metabolic / Nutritional Edema ( 2 . 2 % ) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps ( 3 . 7 % ) Arthralgia ( 1 . 0 % ) Nervous Depression ( 1 . 5 % ) Insomnia ( 1 . 0 % ) Skin and Appendages Acne ( 1 . 2 % ) No hair growth / alopecia ( 1 . 1 % ) Rash ( 1 . 1 % ) Urogenital Leukorrhea ( 2 . 9 % ) Breast pain ( 2 . 8 % ) Vaginitis ( 1 . 2 % ) [ 1 ] Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary .
Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in ≥ 2 % of subjects : bleeding ( 8 . 2 % ) , amenorrhea ( 2 . 1 % ) , weight gain ( 2 . 0 % ) 6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post - marketing in patients taking Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post - Marketing ExperienceBody System [ 1 ] Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain , Allergic reactions including angioedema , Fever , Injection site abscess † , Injection site infection † , Injection site nodule / lump , Injection site pain / tenderness , Injection site persistent atrophy / indentation / dimpling , Injection - site reaction , Lipodystrophy acquired , Chills , Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope , Tachycardia , Thrombophlebitis , Deep vein thrombosis , Pulmonary embolus , Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite , Gastrointestinal disturbances , Jaundice , Excessive thirst , Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia , Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Neoplasms Cervical cancer , Breast cancer Nervous Paralysis , Facial palsy , Paresthesia , Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma , Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism , Excessive sweating and body odor , Dry skin , Scleroderma Urogenital Lack of return to fertility , Unexpected pregnancy , Prevention of lactation , Changes in breast size , Breast lumps or nipple bleeding , Galactorrhea , Melasma , Chloasma , Increased libido , Uterine hyperplasia , Genitourinary infections , Vaginal cysts , Dyspareunia [ 1 ] Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co - Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize contraceptive hormones , counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception .
Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones , and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ' s wort • topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration of HIV protease inhibitors .
Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
7 . 2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted .
The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Medroxyprogesterone acetate : • Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased ( e . g . , progesterone , estradiol , pregnanediol , testosterone , cortisol ) .
• Gonadotropin levels are decreased .
• Sex - hormone - binding - globulin concentrations are decreased .
• Protein - bound iodine and butanol extractable protein - bound iodine may increase .
T 3 - uptake values may decrease .
• Coagulation test values for prothrombin ( Factor II ) , and Factors VII , VIII , IX , and X may increase .
• Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased .
• The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent .
Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol , triglycerides , low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol , and high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol have been observed in studies .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric Patients : Medroxyprogesterone acetate is not indicated before menarche .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be administered during pregnancy .
[ See Contraindications and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 17 ) . ]
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) . ]
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Medroxyprogesterone acetate is not indicated before menarche .
Use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate is associated with significant loss of BMD .
This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood , a critical period of bone accretion .
In adolescents , interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity .
It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk of osteoporotic fractures in later life .
Other than concerns about loss of BMD , the safety and effectiveness are expected to be the same for postmenarchal adolescents and adult women .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product has not been studied in post - menopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on Medroxyprogesterone acetate pharmacokinetics has not been studied .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on Medroxyprogesterone acetate pharmacokinetics has not been studied .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate should not be used by women with significant liver disease and should be discontinued if jaundice or disturbances of liver function occur .
[ See Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) . ]
11 DESCRIPTION Medroxyprogesterone acetate contains medroxyprogesterone acetate , a derivative of progesterone , as its active ingredient .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate is active by the parenteral and oral routes of administration .
It is a white to off - white ; odorless crystalline powder that is stable in air and that melts between 200 ° C and 210 ° C .
It is freely soluble in chloroform , soluble in acetone and dioxane , sparingly soluble in alcohol and methanol , slightly soluble in ether , and insoluble in water .
The chemical name for medroxyprogesterone acetate is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 17 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 - methyl - , ( 6α - ) .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Medroxyprogesterone acetate for intramuscular ( IM ) injection is available in vials and prefilled syringes , each containing 1 mL of medroxyprogesterone acetate sterile aqueous suspension 150 mg / mL .
Each mL contains : Medroxyprogesterone acetate 150 mg Polyethylene glycol 3350 28 . 9 mg Polysorbate 80 2 . 41 mg Sodium chloride 8 . 68 mg Methylparaben 1 . 37 mg Propylparaben 0 . 150 mg Water for injection quantity sufficient When necessary , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid , or both .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( MPA ) , when administered at the recommended dose to women every 3 months , inhibits the secretion of gonadotropins which , in turn , prevents follicular maturation and ovulation and results in endometrial thinning .
These actions produce its contraceptive effect .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No specific pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single 150 mg IM dose of Medroxyprogesterone acetate in eight women between the ages of 28 and 36 years old , medroxyprogesterone acetate concentrations , measured by an extracted radioimmunoassay procedure , increase for approximately 3 weeks to reach peak plasma concentrations of 1 to 7 ng / mL .
Distribution Plasma protein binding of MPA averages 86 % .
MPA binding occurs primarily to serum albumin .
No binding of MPA occurs with sex - hormone - binding globulin ( SHBG ) .
Metabolism MPA is extensively metabolized in the liver by P450 enzymes .
Its metabolism primarily involves ring A and / or side - chain reduction , loss of the acetyl group , hydroxylation in the 2 - , 6 - , and 21 - positions or a combination of these positions , resulting in more than 10 metabolites .
Excretion The concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate decrease exponentially until they become undetectable ( < 100 pg / mL ) between 120 to 200 days following injection .
Using an unextracted radioimmunoassay procedure for the assay of medroxyprogesterone acetate in serum , the apparent half - life for medroxyprogesterone acetate following IM administration of Medroxyprogesterone acetate is approximately 50 days .
Most medroxyprogesterone acetate metabolites are excreted in the urine as glucuronide conjugates with only minor amounts excreted as sulfates .
Specific Populations The effect of hepatic and / or renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of Medroxyprogesterone acetate is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See Warnings and Precautions , ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 14 , and 5 . 16 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Contraception In five clinical studies using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , the 12 - month failure rate for the group of women treated with Medroxyprogesterone acetate was zero ( no pregnancies reported ) to 0 . 7 by Life - Table method .
The effectiveness of Medroxyprogesterone acetate is dependent on the patient returning every 3 months ( 13 weeks ) for reinjection .
14 . 2 Bone Mineral Density ( BMD ) Changes in Adult Women In a controlled , clinical study , adult women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate for up to 5 years showed spine and hip BMD mean decreases of 5 – 6 % , compared to no significant change in BMD in the control group .
The decline in BMD was more pronounced during the first two years of use , with smaller declines in subsequent years .
Mean changes in lumbar spine BMD of - 2 . 86 % , - 4 . 11 % , - 4 . 89 % , - 4 . 93 % and - 5 . 38 % after 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 years , respectively , were observed .
Mean decreases in BMD of the total hip and femoral neck were similar .
After stopping use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 150 mg ) , there was partial recovery of BMD toward baseline values during the 2 - year post - therapy period .
Longer duration of treatment was associated with less complete recovery during this 2 - year period following the last injection .
Table 4 shows the change in BMD in women after 5 years of treatment with Medroxyprogesterone acetate and in women in a control group , as well as the extent of recovery of BMD for the subset of the women for whom 2 - year post treatment data were available .
Table 4 .
Mean Percent Change from Baseline in BMD in Adults by Skeletal Site and Cohort ( 5 years of Treatment and 2 Years of Follow - Up ) Time in study Spine Total Hip Femoral Neck Medroxyprogesterone acetate [ 1 ] Control [ 2 ] Medroxyprogesterone acetate null Control null Medroxyprogesterone acetate null Control null 5 years - 5 . 38 % n = 33 0 . 43 % n = 105 - 5 . 16 % n = 21 0 . 19 % n = 65 - 6 . 12 % n = 34 - 0 . 27 % n = 106 7 years - 3 . 13 % n = 12 0 . 53 % n = 60 - 1 . 34 % n = 7 0 . 94 % n = 39 - 5 . 38 % n = 13 - 0 . 11 % n = 63 [ 1 ] The treatment group consisted of women who received Medroxyprogesterone acetate for 5 years and were then followed for 2 years post - use ( total time in study of 7 years ) .
[ 2 ] The control group consisted of women who did not use hormonal contraception and were followed for 7 years .
14 . 3 Bone Mineral Density Changes in Adolescent Females ( 12 – 18 years of age ) The impact of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 150 mg ) use for up to 240 weeks ( 4 . 6 years ) was evaluated in an open - label non - randomized clinical study in 389 adolescent females ( 12 – 18 years ) .
Use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate was associated with a significant decline from baseline in BMD .
Partway through the trial , drug administration was stopped ( at 120 weeks ) .
The mean number of injections per Medroxyprogesterone acetate user was 9 . 3 .
The decline in BMD at total hip and femoral neck was greater with longer duration of use ( see Table 5 ) .
The mean decrease in BMD at 240 weeks was more pronounced at total hip ( - 6 . 4 % ) and femoral neck ( - 5 . 4 % ) compared to lumbar spine ( - 2 . 1 % ) .
In general , adolescents increase bone density during the period of growth following menarche , as seen in the untreated cohort .
However , the two cohorts were not matched at baseline for age , gynecologic age , race , BMD and other factors that influence the rate of acquisition of bone mineral density .
Table 5 .
Mean Percent Change from Baseline in BMD in Adolescents Receiving ≥ 4 Injections per 60 - week Period , by Skeletal Site and CohortDuration of Treatment Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( 150 mg IM ) Unmatched , Untreated Cohort N Mean % Change N Mean % Change Total Hip BMD Week 60 ( 1 . 2 Years ) 113 - 2 . 75 166 1 . 22 Week 120 ( 2 . 3 Years ) 73 - 5 . 40 109 2 . 19 Week 240 ( 4 . 6 Years ) 28 - 6 . 40 84 1 . 71 Femoral Neck BMD Week 60 113 - 2 . 96 166 1 . 75 Week 120 73 - 5 . 30 108 2 . 83 Week 240 28 - 5 . 40 84 1 . 94 Lumbar Spine BMD Week 60 114 - 2 . 47 167 3 . 39 Week 120 73 - 2 . 74 109 5 . 28 Week 240 27 - 2 . 11 84 6 . 40 BMD recovery post - treatment in adolescent women Longer duration of treatment and smoking were associated with less recovery of BMD following the last injection of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Table 6 shows the extent of recovery of BMD up to 60 months post - treatment for adolescent women who received Medroxyprogesterone acetate for two years or less compared to more than two years .
Post - treatment follow - up showed that , in women treated for more than two years , only lumbar spine BMD recovered to baseline levels after treatment was discontinued .
Subjects treated with Medroxyprogesterone acetate for more than two years did not recover to their baseline BMD level at femoral neck and total hip even up to 60 months post - treatment .
Adolescent women in the untreated cohort gained BMD throughout the trial period ( data not shown ) .
Table 6 : Extent of BMD Recovery ( Months Post - Treatment ) in Adolescents by Years of Medroxyprogesterone acetate Use ( 2 Years or Less vs . More than 2 Years ) Duration of Treatment 2 years or less More than 2 years N Mean % Change from baseline N Mean % Change from baseline Total Hip BMD End of Treatment 49 - 1 . 5 % 49 - 6 . 2 % 12 M post - treatment 33 - 1 . 4 % 24 - 4 . 6 % 24 M post - treatment 18 0 . 3 % 17 - 3 . 6 % 36 M post - treatment 12 2 . 1 % 11 - 4 . 6 % 48 M post - treatment 10 1 . 3 % 9 - 2 . 5 % 60 M post - treatment 3 0 . 2 % 2 - 1 . 0 % Femoral Neck BMD End of Treatment 49 - 1 . 6 % 49 - 5 . 8 % 12 M post - treatment 33 - 1 . 4 % 24 - 4 . 3 % 24 M post - treatment 18 0 . 5 % 17 - 3 . 8 % 36 M post - treatment 12 1 . 2 % 11 - 3 . 8 % 48 M post - treatment 10 2 . 0 % 9 - 1 . 7 % 60 M post - treatment 3 1 . 0 % 2 - 1 . 9 % Lumbar Spine BMD End of Treatment 49 - 0 . 9 % 49 - 3 . 5 % 12 M post - treatment 33 0 . 4 % 23 - 1 . 1 % 24 M post - treatment 18 2 . 6 % 17 1 . 9 % 36 M post - treatment 12 2 . 4 % 11 0 . 6 % 48 M post - treatment 10 6 . 5 % 9 3 . 5 % 60 M post - treatment 3 6 . 2 % 2 5 . 7 % 14 . 4 Relationship of fracture incidence to use of DMPA 150 mg IM or non - use by women of reproductive age A retrospective cohort study to assess the association between DMPA injection and the incidence of bone fractures was conducted in 312 , 395 female contraceptive users in the UK .
The incidence rates of fracture were compared between DMPA users and contraceptive users who had no recorded use of DMPA .
The Incident Rate Ratio ( IRR ) for any fracture during the follow - up period ( mean = 5 . 5 years ) was 1 . 41 ( 95 % CI 1 . 35 , 1 . 47 ) .
It is not known if this is due to DMPA use or to other related lifestyle factors that have a bearing on fracture rate .
In the study , when cumulative exposure to DMPA was calculated , the fracture rate in users who received fewer than 8 injections was higher than that in women who received 8 or more injections .
However , it is not clear that cumulative exposure , which may include periods of intermittent use separated by periods of non - use , is a useful measure of risk , as compared to exposure measures based on continuous use .
There were very few osteoporotic fractures ( fracture sites known to be related to low BMD ) in the study overall , and the incidence of osteoporotic fractures was not found to be higher in DMPA users compared to non - users .
Importantly , this study could not determine whether use of DMPA has an effect on fracture rate later in life .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Li CI , Beaber EF , Tang , MCT et al .
Effect of Depo - Medroxyprogesterone Acetate on Breast Cancer Risk among Women 20 to 44 years of Age .
Cancer Research 2012 ; 72 : 2028 - 2035 .
2 .
Shapiro S , Rosenberg L , Hoffman M et al .
Risk of Breast Cancer in Relation to the Use of Injectable Progestogen Contraceptives and Combined Estrogen / Progestogen Contraceptives .
Am J Epidemiol 2000 : Vol . 151 , No . 4 , 396 - 403 .
3 .
WHO Collaborative Study of Neoplasia and Steroid Contraceptives .
Breast cancer and depot - medroxyprogesterone acetate : a multinational study .
Lancet 1991 ; 338 : 833 - 38 4 .
Paul C , Skegg DCG , Spears GFS .
Depot medroxyprogesterone ( Depo - Provera ) and risk of breast cancer .
Br Med J 1989 ; 299 : 759 - 62 .
5 .
Lee NC , Rosero - Bixby L , Oberle MW et al .
A Case - Control Study of Breast Cancer and Hormonal Contraception in Costa Rica .
JNCI 1987 ; 79 : 1247 - 1254 6 .
http : / / seer . cancer . gov / faststats / index . php ( Accessed on August 14 , 2014 ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension , USP , 150 mg / mL is available as : NDC 68071 - 4666 - 5 BOX OF 1 mL Instructions for using the Needle : 1 .
WARNINGS for use with the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ Safety Device : 1 . 1 A needle stick with a contaminated needle may cause infectious diseases .
1 . 2 Intentional disengagement of the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device may result in a needle stick with a contaminated needle .
1 . 3 Bent or damaged needles can result in breakage or damage to the tissue or accidental needle puncture .
If the needle is bent or damaged , no attempt should be made to straighten the needle or engage the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device .
Immediately discard into a sharps container .
The Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device may not properly contain a bent needle and / or the needle could puncture the needle protection device which may result in a needle stick with a contaminated needle .
1 . 4 Mishandling of this device , including excessive engagement force , may cause the needle to protrude from the needle protection device which may result in a contaminated needle stick .
1 . 5 Do not use free hand to press sheath over the needle .
This may result in a needle stick with a contaminated needle .
2 .
CAUTIONS for use with the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ Safety Device : 2 . 1 Follow standard infection control procedures as specified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( USA ) or local equivalent .
2 . 2 Do Not Reuse : Medical devices require specific material characteristics to perform as intended .
These characteristics have been verified for single use only .
Any attempt to re - process the device for subsequent reuse may adversely affect the integrity of the device or lead to deterioration in performance .
3 .
INSTRUCTIONS for use of the Prefilled Syringe with the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ Safety Device : 3 . 1 Remove syringe end cap exposing the luer fitting .
Peel blister pouch for the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device open half way .
Grasp sheath using the plastic peel pouch .
To prevent contamination , be careful not to touch the needle ’ s Luer connector .
3 . 2 Attach prefilled syringe to the Luer connection of the Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device .
Insert plunger rod into open end of syringe until it contacts the stopper .
Secure with 3 clockwise half turns .
Shake vigorously with needle cap in place .
3 . 3 Pull needle cap ( plastic component covering needle ) straight away from the needle .
Do not twist cap as Needle - Pro ® EDGE ™ safety device may be loosened from the prefilled syringe .
3 . 4 For user convenience , the needle is in the “ bevel up ” position when the safety sheath is located to the right as indicated by the “ arrow ” on the device .
3 . 5 Perform injection according to local standard practice using aseptic technique .
3 . 6 After procedure is completed , actuate needle protection by pressing the sheath against a flat surface using a one - handed technique .
An audible click may be heard as an indication that the needle is engaged into the needle protection device .
AS THE SHEATH IS PRESSED ( FIGURE 1 ) , THE NEEDLE IS FIRMLY ENGAGED INTO THE SHEATH ( FIGURE 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 . 7 Visually confirm that the needle is fully engaged into the needle protection sheath .
3 . 8 After use , place syringe and needle into a sharps container .
Dispose of sharps container containing used syringe and needle in a safe manner according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , USA and Federal / State / Local regulations ( EPA , OSHA ) and health care facility guidelines or local equivalent .
The Smiths Medical and Jelco design marks ; Needle - Pro ® EDGE ; and the color orange applied to the needle protection device are trademarks of the Smiths Medical family of companies .
The symbol ® indicates the trademark is registered in the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office and certain other countries .
The products described are covered by one or more of the following : U . S . Patent No .
RE37 , 110 ; counterpart foreign patent ( s ) ; and other U . S . and / or foreign pending patents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Syringe must be stored in carton at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] until ready for use .
Vials MUST be stored upright at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION " See FDA approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) . "
• Advise patients at the beginning of treatment that their menstrual cycle may be disrupted and that irregular and unpredictable bleeding or spotting results , and that this usually decreases to the point of amenorrhea as treatment with Medroxyprogesterone acetate continues , without other therapy being required .
• Counsel patients about the possible increased risk of breast cancer in women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Counsel patients that this product does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Counsel patients on Warnings and Precautions associated with use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
• Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Rx only © Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 2017 Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Rancho Cucamonga , CA 91730 Rev . 01 / 18 6954006 T Patient Information Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension ) Contraceptive Injection Read this Patient Information carefully before you decide if Medroxyprogesterone acetate is right for you .
This information does not take the place of talking with your gynecologist or other healthcare provider who specializes in women ’ s health .
If you have any questions about Medroxyprogesterone acetate , ask your healthcare provider .
You should also learn about other birth control methods to choose the one that is best for you .
What is the most important information I should know about Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Medroxyprogesterone acetate can cause serious side effects , including : • Use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate may cause you to lose calcium stored in your bone and decrease your bone mass .
The longer you use Medroxyprogesterone acetate , the greater your loss of calcium from your bones .
Your bones may not recover completely when you stop using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
• If you use Medroxyprogesterone acetate continuously for a long time ( for more than 2 years ) , it may increase the risk of weak , porous bones ( osteoporosis ) that could increase the risk of broken bones , especially after menopause .
• You should not use Medroxyprogesterone acetate for more than two years unless you cannot use other birth control methods .
• It is not known if your risk of developing osteoporosis is greater if you are a teenager or young adult when you start to use Medroxyprogesterone acetate ( see “ What are the possible side effects of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ? ” )
.
Medroxyprogesterone acetate is intended to prevent pregnancy .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
What is Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Medroxyprogesterone acetate is a progestin hormone birth control method that is given by injection ( a shot ) to prevent pregnancy .
How well does Medroxyprogesterone acetate work ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
The more carefully you follow the directions ( such as returning every 3 months for your next injection ) , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
In clinical studies , about 1 out of 100 women got pregnant during the first year that they used Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I take Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Medroxyprogesterone acetate is given by your healthcare provider as a shot into your muscle ( intramuscular injection ) .
The shot is given in your buttock or upper arm 1 time every 3 months .
At the end of the 3 months , you will need to return to your healthcare provider for your next injection in order to continue your protection against pregnancy .
• To make sure that you are not pregnant before you take Medroxyprogesterone acetate , the first injection should be given only : o during the first 5 days of a normal menstrual period , or o within the first 5 days after giving birth , if you are not breastfeeding , or o at the 6 th week after giving birth , if you are feeding your baby only breastmilk .
• Medroxyprogesterone acetate may be given at other times than those listed above , but you will likely need to have a pregnancy test first to show that you are not pregnant • During treatment with Medroxyprogesterone acetate , you should see your healthcare provider every year for a blood pressure check and other healthcare needs .
Who Should Not Use Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Do not use Medroxyprogesterone acetate if you : • are pregnant or think you might be pregnant • have bleeding from your vagina that has not been explained • have breast cancer now or in the past , or think you have breast cancer • have had a stroke • ever had blood clots in your arms , legs or lungs • have problems with your liver or liver disease • are allergic to medroxyprogesterone acetate or any of the other ingredients in Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Before taking Medroxyprogesterone acetate , tell your healthcare provider if you have : • risk factors for weak bones ( osteoporosis ) such as bone disease , use alcohol or smoke regularly , anorexia nervosa , or a strong family history of osteoporosis • irregular or lighter than usual menstrual periods • breast cancer now or in the past , or think you have breast cancer • a family history of breast cancer • an abnormal mammogram ( breast X - ray ) , lumps in your breasts , or bleeding from your nipples • kidney problems • high blood pressure • had a stroke • had blood clots in your arms , legs or lungs • migraine headaches • asthma • epilepsy ( convulsions or seizures ) • diabetes • depression or a history of depression • any other medical conditions If you are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed , Medroxyprogesterone acetate can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate and certain other medicines may affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines may need to be changed while you are taking Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Some medicines may make Medroxyprogesterone acetate less effective at preventing pregnancy , including those listed below .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • medicine to help you sleep • bosentan • medicine for seizures • griseofulvin • an antibiotic • medicine for HIV ( AIDS ) • St . John ’ s wort Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist before you first start taking Medroxyprogesterone acetate or when you get a new medicine .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions about using a back - up method of birth control if you are taking medicines that may make Medroxyprogesterone acetate less effective .
What are the possible side effects of Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Medroxyprogesterone acetate can cause serious side effects , including : • Effect on the bones : See “ What is the most important information I should know about Medroxyprogesterone acetate ? ”
.
Teenage years are the most important years to gain bone strength .
The decrease in calcium in your bones is of most concern if you are a teenager or have the following problems : • bone disease • an eating disorder ( anorexia nervosa ) • a strong family history of osteoporosis • you take a drug that can lower the amount of calcium in your bones ( drugs for epilepsy or steroid drugs ) • you drink a lot of alcohol ( more than 2 drinks a day ) • you smoke If you need a birth control method for more than 2 years , your healthcare provider may switch you to another birth control method instead of using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
If you continue using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , your healthcare provider may ask you to have a bone test , especially if you have other risks for weak bones .
When Medroxyprogesterone acetate is stopped , your bones may start to regain calcium .
However , in a study of teenage girls who used Medroxyprogesterone acetate for more than 2 years , their hip bones did not completely recover by 5 years after they stopped using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
Taking calcium and Vitamin D and exercising daily may lessen the loss of calcium from your bones .
• possible increased risk of breast cancer .
Women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate may have a slightly increased risk of breast cancer compared to non - users .
• blood clots in your arms , legs , lungs , and eyes • stroke • a pregnancy outside of the uterus ( ectopic pregnancy ) .
Ectopic pregnancy is a medical emergency that often requires surgery .
Ectopic pregnancy can cause internal bleeding , infertility , and even death .
• allergic reactions .
Severe allergic reactions have been reported in some women using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
• loss of vision or other eye problems • migraine headaches • depression • convulsions or seizures • liver problems Call your healthcare provider right away if you have : • sharp chest pain , coughing up blood , or sudden shortness of breath ( indicating a possible clot in the lung ) • sudden severe headache or vomiting , dizziness or fainting , problems with your eyesight or speech , weakness , or numbness in an arm or leg ( indicating a possible stroke ) • severe pain or swelling in the calf ( indicating a possible clot in the leg ) • sudden blindness , partial or complete ( indicating a possible clot in the blood vessels of the eye ) • unusually heavy vaginal bleeding • severe pain or tenderness in the lower abdominal area • persistent pain , pus , or bleeding at the injection site • yellowing of the eyes or skin • hives • difficulty breathing • swelling of the face , mouth , tongue or neck The most common side effects of Medroxyprogesterone acetate include : • irregular vaginal bleeding , such as lighter or heavier menstrual bleeding , or continued spotting • weight gain .
You may experience weight gain while you are using Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
About two - thirds of the women who used Medroxyprogesterone acetate in the clinical trials reported a weight gain of about 5 pounds during the first year of use .
You may continue to gain weight after the first year .
Women who used Medroxyprogesterone acetate for 2 years gained an average of 8 pounds over those 2 years .
• abdominal pain • headache • weakness • tiredness • nervousness • dizziness Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
What other information should I consider before choosing Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
• Pregnancy .
When you take Medroxyprogesterone acetate every 3 months , your chance of getting pregnant is very low .
You could miss a period or have a light period and not be pregnant .
If you miss 1 or 2 periods and think you might be pregnant , see your healthcare provider as soon as possible .
You should not use Medroxyprogesterone acetate if you are pregnant .
However , Medroxyprogesterone acetate taken by accident during pregnancy does not seem to cause birth defects .
• Nursing Mothers .
Although Medroxyprogesterone acetate can be passed to the nursing baby in the breast milk , no harmful effects on babies have been found .
Medroxyprogesterone acetate does not stop the breasts from producing milk , so it can be used by nursing mothers .
However , to minimize the amount of Medroxyprogesterone acetate that is passed to the baby in the first weeks after birth , you should wait until your baby is 6 weeks old before you start using Medroxyprogesterone acetate for birth control .
How will Medroxyprogesterone acetate change my periods ?
• Change in normal menstrual cycle .
The side effect reported most frequently by women who use Medroxyprogesterone acetate for birth controls is a change in their normal menstrual cycle .
During the first year of using Medroxyprogesterone acetate , you might have one or more of the following changes : o irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting , o an increase or decrease in menstrual bleeding o no bleeding at all .
In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone acetate , 55 % of women reported no menstrual bleeding ( amenorrhea ) after one year of use and 68 % of women reported no menstrual bleeding after two years of use .
• Missed period : During the time you are using Medroxyprogesterone acetate for birth controls , you may skip a period , or your periods may stop completely .
If you have been receiving your shot of Medroxyprogesterone acetate regularly every 3 months , then you are probably not pregnant .
However , if you think that you may be pregnant , see your healthcare provider .
Unusually heavy or continuous bleeding is not a usual effect of Medroxyprogesterone acetate and if this happens you should see your healthcare provider right away .
With continued use of Medroxyprogesterone acetate , bleeding usually decreases and many women stop having periods completely .
When you stop using Medroxyprogesterone acetate your menstrual period will usually , in time , return to its normal cycle .
What if I want to become pregnant ?
Because Medroxyprogesterone acetate is a long - acting birth control method , it takes some time after your last shot for its effect to wear off .
Most women who try to get pregnant after using Medroxyprogesterone acetate get pregnant within 18 months after their last shot .
The length of time you use Medroxyprogesterone acetate has no effect on how long it takes you to become pregnant after you stop using it .
General Information about Medroxyprogesterone acetate Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Medroxyprogesterone acetate .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider for information about Medroxyprogesterone acetate that is written for healthcare providers .
What are the ingredients in Medroxyprogesterone acetate ?
Active ingredient : medroxyprogesterone acetate Inactive ingredients : polyethylene glycol 3350 , polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , methylparaben , propylparaben , and water for injection .
When necessary , pH is adjusted with sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid , or both .
Rx Only © Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 2017 Amphastar Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Rancho Cucamonga , CA 91730 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
6954006 T Rev . 01 / 18 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
