Iodoquinol 1 % Hydrocortisone Acetate 2 % Aloe Polysaccharides 1 % Gel Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Each gram contains 20 mg of hydrocortisone acetate , 10 mg of iodoquinol and 10 mg of aloe polysaccharides in a vehicle consisting of : amino methylpropanol 95 % , benzyl alcohol , carbomer , citric acid anhydrous , D & C yellow # 10 , FD & C blue # 1 , glycerin , glyceryl polymethacrylate , magnesium aluminum silicate , palmitoyl oligopeptide , PPG - 20 methyl glucose ether , propylene glycol , purified water , and SD Alcohol 40 B .
Hydrocortisone acetate is an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agent .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is [ Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11 - ß ) - ] with the molecular formula ( C 23 H 32 O 6 ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Iodoquinol is an antifungal and antibacterial agent .
Chemically , Iodoquinol is [ 5 , 7 - diiodo - 8 - quinolinol ] with the molecular formula ( C 9 H 5 I 2 NO ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aloe polysaccharides are a concentrated , water soluble subcomponent of aloe vera with a mono - sugar ratio of Man : Gal : Glc : 40 : 1 . 4 : 1 . 0 , linkage of 1 - 4 ß - linkage , O - Acetyl group of 25 % of sugar units , and specific rotation of [ α ] D = - 3 . 98 ° at 23 . 2 ° C . Average molecular weight is 80 , 000 daltons .
Chemically , aloe polysaccharides is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Hydrocortisone acetate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
While the mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity is unclear , there is evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in humans .
Iodoquinol has both antifungal and antibacterial properties .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical steroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
Hydrocortisone acetate can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other inflammatory disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , hydrocortisone acetate is metabolized in the liver and most body tissue to hydrogenated and degraded forms such as tetrahydrocortisone and tetrahydrocortisol .
These are excreted in the urine , mainly conjugated as glucuronides , together with a very small proportion of unchanged hydrocortisone acetate .
There are no data available regarding the percutaneous absorption of iodoquinol ; however , following oral administration , 3 - 5 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as a glucuronide .
INDICATIONS : Based on a review of a related drug by the National Research Council and subsequent FDA classification for that drug , the indications are as follows : “ Possibly ” Effective : Contact or atopic dermatitis ; impetiginized eczema ; nummular eczema ; endogenous chronic infectious dermatitis ; stasis dermatitis ; pyoderma ; nuchal eczema and chronic eczematoid otitis externa ; acne urticata ; localized or disseminated neurodermatitis ; lichen simplex chronicus ; anogenital pruritus ( vulvae , scroti , ani ) ; folliculitis ; bacterial dermatoses ; mycotic dermatoses such as tinea ( capitis , cruris , corporis , pedis ) ; monliasis ; intertrigo .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS : KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Information for Patients : If irritation develops , the use of this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Staining of the skin , hair and fabrics may occur .
Not intended for use on infants or under diapers or occlusive dressings .
If extensive areas are treated or if the occlusive dressing technique is used , the possibility exists of increased systemic absorption of the corticosteroid , and suitable precautions should be taken .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Iodoquinol may be absorbed through the skin and interfere with thyroid function tests .
If such tests are contemplated , wait at least one month after discontinuance of therapy to perform these tests .
The ferric chloride test for phenylketonuria ( PKU ) can yield a false positive result if iodoquinol is present in the diaper or urine .
Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms requiring appropriate therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
In vitro studies to determine mutagenicity with hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Mutagenicity studies have not been performed with iodoquinol .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply to affected area ( s ) three to four times per day or as directed by a physician .
Follow your physician ’ s directions regarding length of treatment after symptoms resolve .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Keep container tightly closed .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
HOW SUPPLIED : 1 . 69 oz .
( 48 g ) tube , NDC 52187 - 545 - 48 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 .
Manufactured for : KMM Pharmaceuticals , LLC 1000 N . West Street Suite 1200 , # 1201 Wilmington , DE 19801 2100006 [ 00 ] Rev . 01 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
