This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose Antiseptic Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from heat and flames When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Open lid , pull back resealable label , remove a wipe for use .
Reseal back after use to avoid evaporation of alcohol .
Other information • Dispose of wipe in the proper container .
• Do not flush down the toilet .
• Store between 59 - 86 F ( 15 - 30 C ) Inactive ingredients Water ( aqua ) , Glycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice ( Alose Vera ) and Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
