DESCRIPTION Pyridostigmine bromide is an orally active cholinesterase inhibitor .
Chemically , pyridostigmine bromide is 3 - hydroxy - 1 - methylpyridinium bromide dimethylcarbamate .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pyridostigmine bromide extended - release tablets are available as extended - release tablets containing 180 mg pyridostigmine bromide ; each tablet also contains carnauba wax , copovidone , lactose , magnesium stearate , and silicon dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pyridostigmine bromide inhibits the destruction of acetylcholine by cholinesterase and thereby permits freer transmission of nerve impulses across the neuromuscular junction .
Pyridostigmine is an analog of neostigmine , but differs from it in certain clinically significant respects ; for example , pyridostigmine is characterized by a longer duration of action and fewer gastrointestinal side effects .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pyridostigmine bromide is useful in the treatment of myasthenia gravis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyridostigmine bromide is contraindicated in mechanical intestinal or urinary obstruction , and particular caution should be used in its administration to patients with bronchial asthma .
Care should be observed in the use of atropine for counteracting side effects , as discussed below .
WARNINGS Although failure of patients to show clinical improvement may reflect underdosage , it can also be indicative of overdosage .
As is true of all cholinergic drugs , overdosage of pyridostigmine bromide may result in cholinergic crisis , a state characterized by increasing muscle weakness which , through involvement of the muscles of respiration , may lead to death .
Myasthenic crisis due to an increase in the severity of the disease is also accompanied by extreme muscle weakness , and thus may be difficult to distinguish from cholinergic crisis on a symptomatic basis .
Such differentiation is extremely important , since increases in doses of pyridostigmine bromide or other drugs of this class in the presence of cholinergic crisis or of a refractory or “ insensitive ” state could have grave consequences .
Osserman and Genkins 1 indicate that the differential diagnosis of the two types of crisis may require the use of edrophonium chloride as well as clinical judgment .
The treatment of the two conditions obviously differs radically .
Whereas the presence of myasthenic crisis suggests the need for more intensive anticholinesterase therapy , the diagnosis of cholinergic crisis , according to Osserman and Genkins 1 , calls for the prompt withdrawal of all drugs of this type .
The immediate use of atropine in cholinergic crisis is also recommended .
Atropine may also be used to abolish or obtund gastrointestinal side effects or other muscarinic reactions ; but such use , by masking signs of overdosage , can lead to inadvertent induction of cholinergic crisis .
For detailed information on the management of patients with myasthenia gravis , the physician is referred to one of the excellent reviews such as those by Osserman and Genkins 2 , Grob 3 or Schwab 4 , 5 .
Usage in Pregnancy : The safety of pyridostigmine bromide during pregnancy or lactation in humans has not been established .
Therefore , use of pyridostigmine bromide in women who may become pregnant requires weighing the drug ’ s potential benefits against its possible hazards to mother and child .
PRECAUTIONS Pyridostigmine is mainly excreted unchanged by the kidney 6 , 7 , 8 .
Therefore , lower doses may be required in patients with renal disease , and treatment should be based on titration of drug dosage to effect 6 , 7 .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The side effects of pyridostigmine bromide are most commonly related to overdosage and generally are of two varieties , muscarinic and nicotinic .
Among those in the former group are nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , increased peristalsis , increased salivation , increased bronchial secretions , miosis and diaphoresis .
Nicotinic side effects are comprised chiefly of muscle cramps , fasciculation and weakness .
Muscarinic side effects can usually be counteracted by atropine , but for reasons shown in the preceding section the expedient is not without danger .
As with any compound containing the bromide radical , a skin rash may be seen in an occasional patient .
Such reactions usually subside promptly upon discontinuance of the medication .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amneal Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Pyridostigmine bromide is available in extended - release dosage form : Extended - Release Tablets — each containing 180 mg pyridostigmine bromide .
This form provides uniformly slow release , hence prolonged duration of drug action ; it facilitates control of myasthenic symptoms with fewer individual doses daily .
The immediate effect of a 180 mg extended - release tablet is about equal to that of a 60 mg immediate - release tablet ; however , its duration of effectiveness , although varying in individual patients , averages 2 1 / 2 times that of a 60 mg dose .
Dosage : The size and frequency of the dosage must be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient .
Extended - Release Tablets — One to three 180 mg tablets , once or twice daily , will usually be sufficient to control symptoms ; however , the needs of certain individuals may vary markedly from this average .
The interval between doses should be at least 6 hours .
For optimum control , it may be necessary to use the more rapidly acting regular tablets or syrup in conjunction with extended - release therapy .
Note : For information on a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis , and for the evaluation and stabilization of therapy , please see product literature on edrophonium chloride .
HOW SUPPLIED Pyridostigmine Bromide Extended - release Tablets , 180 mg are available as light brown to pale yellow , capsule - shaped tablets , debossed with W1 on one side and single - scored on the other side .
NDC 68071 - 5032 - 3 BOTTLES OF 30 Note : Because of the hygroscopic nature of the extended - release tablets , mottling may occur .
This does not affect their efficacy .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° C ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container .
Keep pyridostigmine bromide extended - release tablets in a dry place with the silica gel enclosed .
REFERENCES • Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis : Reduction in mortality rate after crisis .
JAMA .
Jan 1963 ; 183 : 97 - 101 .
• Osserman KE , Genkins G . Studies in myasthenia gravis .
NY State J Med .
June 1961 ; 61 : 2076 - 2085 .
• Grob D . Myasthenia gravis .
A review of pathogenesis and treatment .
Arch Intern Med .
Oct 1961 ; 108 : 615 - 638 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 596 - 597 .
• Schwab RS .
Management of myasthenia gravis .
New Eng J Med .
Mar 1963 ; 268 : 717 - 719 .
• Cronnelly R , Stanski DR , Miller RD , Sheiner LB .
Pyridostigmine kinetics with and without renal function .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1980 ; 28 : No . 1 , 78 - 81 .
• Miller RD .
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of anticholinesterase .
In : Ruegheimer E , Zindler M , ed .
Anaesthesiology .
( Hamburg , Germany : Congress ; Sep 14 - 21 , 1980 ; 222 - 223 . )
( Int Congr .
No . 538 ) , Amsterdam , Netherlands : Excerpta Medica ; 1981 .
• Breyer - Pfaff U , Maier U , Brinkmann AM , Schumm F . Pyridostigmine kinetics in healthy subjects and patients with myasthenia gravis .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1985 ; 5 : 495 - 501 .
Distributed by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 Rev . 01 - 2019 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
