WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue lisinopril as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue lisinopril tablets as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lisinopril tablets are an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor indicated for : • Treatment of hypertension in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older ( 1 . 1 ) • Adjunct therapy for heart failure ( 1 . 2 ) • Treatment of Acute Myocardial Infarction ( 1 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Hypertension Lisinopril tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in adult patients and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure lowers the risk of fatal and non - fatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than 1 drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Lisinopril tablets may be administered alone or with other antihypertensive agents [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
1 . 2 Heart Failure Lisinopril tablets are indicated to reduce signs and symptoms of systolic heart failure [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
1 . 3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction Lisinopril tablets are indicated for the reduction of mortality in treatment of hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction .
Patients should receive , as appropriate , the standard recommended treatments such as thrombolytics , aspirin and beta - blockers [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hypertension : Initial adult dose is 10 mg once daily .
Titrate up to 40 mg daily based on blood pressure response .
Initiate patients on diuretics at 5 mg once daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 : Initial dose in patients 6 years of age and older is 0 . 07 mg per kg ( up to 5 mg total ) once daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Heart Failure : Initiate with 5 mg once daily .
Increase dose as tolerated to 40 mg daily ( 2 . 2 ) • Acute Myocardial Infarction ( MI ) : Give 5 mg within 24 hours of MI .
Followed by 5 mg after 24 hours , then 10 mg once daily ( 2 . 3 ) • Renal Impairment : For patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL / min and ≤ 30 mL / min , halve usual initial dose .
For patients with creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min or on hemodialysis , the recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Hypertension Initial Therapy in adults : The recommended initial dose is 10 mg once a day .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response .
The usual dosage range is 20 mg to 40 mg per day administered in a single daily dose .
Doses up to 80 mg have been used but do not appear to give greater effect .
Use with diuretics in adults If blood pressure is not controlled with lisinopril tablets alone , a low dose of a diuretic may be added ( e . g . , hydrochlorothiazide , 12 . 5 mg ) .
After the addition of a diuretic , it may be possible to reduce the dose of lisinopril tablets .
The recommended starting dose in adult patients with hypertension taking diuretics is 5 mg once per day .
Pediatric Patients 6 years of age and older with hypertension For pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , the recommended starting dose is 0 . 07 mg per kg once daily ( up to 5 mg total ) .
Dosage should be adjusted according to blood pressure response up to a maximum of 0 . 61 mg per kg ( up to 40 mg ) once daily .
Doses above 0 . 61 mg per kg ( or in excess of 40 mg ) have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Lisinopril tablets are not recommended in pediatric patients < 6 years or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Heart Failure The recommended starting dose for lisinopril tablets , when used with diuretics and ( usually ) digitalis as adjunctive therapy for systolic heart failure , is 5 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose in these patients with hyponatremia ( serum sodium < 130 mEq / L ) is 2 . 5 mg once daily .
Increase as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg once daily .
Diuretic dose may need to be adjusted to help minimize hypovolemia , which may contribute to hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of lisinopril tablets does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension .
2 . 3 Reduction of Mortality in Acute Myocardial Infarction In hemodynamically stable patients within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction , give lisinopril tablets 5 mg orally , followed by 5 mg after 24 hours , 10 mg after 48 hours and then 10 mg once daily .
Dosing should continue for at least six weeks .
Initiate therapy with 2 . 5 mg in patients with a low systolic blood pressure ( ≤ 120 mmHg and > 100 mmHg ) during the first 3 days after the infarct [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
If hypotension occurs ( systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg ) a daily maintenance dose of 5 mg may be given with temporary reductions to 2 . 5 mg if needed .
If prolonged hypotension occurs ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) lisinopril tablets should be withdrawn .
2 . 4 Dose in Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of lisinopril tablets is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≥ 10 mL / min and ≤ 30 mL / min , reduce the initial dose of lisinopril tablets to half of the usual recommended dose i . e . , hypertension , 5 mg ; systolic heart failure , 2 . 5 mg and acute MI , 2 . 5 mg .
Up titrate as tolerated to a maximum of 40 mg daily .
For patients on hemodialysis or creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min , the recommended initial dose is 2 . 5 mg once daily [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 2 . 5 mg Tablets : White to off - white , round , unscored , biconvex tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” on one side and “ 405 ” on the other side .
5 mg Tablets : White to off - white , capsule - shaped , biconvex tablets , scored on one side , debossed “ WAT ” on the left and “ SON ” on the right of the score and “ 406 ” on the other side .
10 mg Tablets : Light blue , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 407 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side .
20 mg Tablets : Yellow , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 408 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side .
30 mg Tablets : Yellow , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 885 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side .
40 mg Tablets : Yellow , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 409 ” on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , 40 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Lisinopril tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer lisinopril tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Lisinopril tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • a history of angioedema or hypersensitivity related to previous treatment with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor • hereditary or idiopathic angioedema Do not co - administer aliskiren with lisinopril tablets in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• Angioedema or a history of hereditary or idiopathic angioedema ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) • Co - administration of aliskiren with lisinopril tablets in patients with diabetes ( 4 , 7 . 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Angioedema : Discontinue lisinopril , provide appropriate therapy and monitor until resolved ( 5 . 2 ) • Renal impairment : Monitor renal function periodically ( 5 . 3 ) • Hypotension : Patients with other heart or renal diseases have increased risk , monitor blood pressure after initiation ( 5 . 4 ) • Hyperkalemia : Monitor serum potassium periodically ( 5 . 5 ) • Cholestatic jaundice and hepatic failure : Monitor for jaundice or signs of liver failure ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Lisinopril can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue lisinopril as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 , 7 . 8 ) ] .
Angioedema Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx , including some fatal reactions , have occurred in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril , at any time during treatment .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
Lisinopril should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms of angioedema has occurred .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in black than in non - black patients .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has occurred in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
In some cases , the angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid Reactions Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Dialysis Sudden and potentially life threatening anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with lisinopril .
Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , post - myocardial infarction or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on lisinopril .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on lisinopril [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Hypotension Lisinopril can cause symptomatic hypotension , sometimes complicated by oliguria , progressive azotemia , acute renal failure or death .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension include those with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg , ischemic heart disease , cerebrovascular disease , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
In these patients , lisinopril should be started under very close medical supervision and such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and / or diuretic is increased .
Avoid use of lisinopril in patients who are hemodynamically unstable after acute MI .
Symptomatic hypotension is also possible in patients with severe aortic stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , lisinopril may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
5 . 5 Hyperkalemia Serum potassium should be monitored periodically in patients receiving lisinopril .
Drugs that inhibit the renin angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hepatic Failure ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and sometimes death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical treatment .
5 . 7 Risk of Allergic Reactions due to Tartrazine Lisinopril tablets , 20 mg , 30 mg , and 40 mg contain FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions ( events 2 % greater than placebo ) by use : • Hypertension : headache , dizziness and cough ( 6 . 1 ) • Heart Failure : hypotension and chest pain ( 6 . 1 ) • Acute Myocardial Infarction : hypotension ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Hypertension In clinical trials in patients with hypertension treated with lisinopril , 5 . 7 % of patients on lisinopril discontinued with adverse reactions .
The following adverse reactions ( events 2 % greater on lisinopril than on placebo ) were observed with lisinopril alone : headache ( by 3 . 8 % ) , dizziness ( by 3 . 5 % ) , cough ( by 2 . 5 % ) .
Heart Failure In patients with systolic heart failure treated with lisinopril for up to four years , 11 % discontinued therapy with adverse reactions .
In controlled studies in patients with heart failure , therapy was discontinued in 8 . 1 % of patients treated with lisinopril for 12 weeks , compared to 7 . 7 % of patients treated with placebo for 12 weeks .
The following adverse reactions ( events 2 % greater on lisinopril than on placebo ) were observed with lisinopril : hypotension ( by 3 . 8 % ) , chest pain ( by 2 . 1 % ) .
In the two - dose ATLAS trial [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] in heart failure patients , withdrawals due to adverse reactions were not different between the low and high groups , either in total number of discontinuation ( 17 to 18 % ) or in rare specific reactions ( < 1 % ) .
The following adverse reactions , mostly related to ACE inhibition , were reported more commonly in the high dose group : Table 1 Dose - related Adverse Drug Reactions : ATLAS trial High Dose ( n = 1568 ) Low Dose ( n = 1596 ) Dizziness 19 % 12 % Hypotension 11 % 7 % Creatinine increased 10 % 7 % Hyperkalemia 6 % 4 % Syncope 7 % 5 % Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients treated with lisinopril had a higher incidence of hypotension ( by 5 . 3 % ) and renal dysfunction ( by 1 . 3 % ) compared with patients not taking lisinopril .
Other clinical adverse reactions occurring in 1 % or higher of patients with hypertension or heart failure treated with lisinopril in controlled clinical trials and do not appear in other sections of labeling are listed below : Body as a whole : Fatigue , asthenia , orthostatic effects .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , constipation , flatulence , dry mouth , diarrhea .
Hematologic : Rare cases of bone marrow depression , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia / neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
Endocrine : Diabetes mellitus , inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion .
Metabolic : Gout .
Skin : Urticaria , alopecia , photosensitivity , erythema , flushing , diaphoresis , cutaneous pseudolymphoma , toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and pruritus .
Special Senses : Visual loss , diplopia , blurred vision , tinnitus , photophobia , taste disturbances , olfactory disturbance .
Urogenital : Impotence .
Miscellaneous : A symptom complex has been reported which may include a positive ANA , an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate , arthralgia / arthritis , myalgia , fever , vasculitis , eosinophilia , leukocytosis , paresthesia and vertigo .
Rash , photosensitivity or other dermatological manifestations may occur alone or in combination with these symptoms .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Potassium : In clinical trials hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in 2 . 2 % and 4 . 8 % of lisinopril - treated patients with hypertension and heart failure , respectively [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , reversible upon discontinuation of therapy , were observed in about 2 % of patients with hypertension treated with lisinopril alone .
Increases were more common in patients receiving concomitant diuretics and in patients with renal artery stenosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Reversible minor increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were observed in 11 . 6 % of patients with heart failure on concomitant diuretic therapy .
Frequently , these abnormalities resolved when the dosage of the diuretic was decreased .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction in the GISSI - 3 trial treated with lisinopril had a higher ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % in placebo ) incidence of renal dysfunction in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg / dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 4 g % and 1 . 3 vol % , respectively ) occurred frequently in patients treated with lisinopril but were rarely of clinical importance in patients without some other cause of anemia .
In clinical trials , less than 0 . 1 % of patients discontinued therapy due to anemia .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of lisinopril that are not included in other sections of labeling .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Other reactions include : Metabolism and nutrition disorders Hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] , cases of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients on oral antidiabetic agents or insulin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] Nervous system and psychiatric disorders Mood alterations ( including depressive symptoms ) , mental confusion , hallucinations Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders Psoriasis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Diuretics : Excessive drop in blood pressure ( 7 . 1 ) • NSAIDS : Increased risk of renal impairment and loss of antihypertensive efficacy ( 7 . 3 ) • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 4 ) • Lithium : Symptoms of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 5 ) • Gold : Nitritoid reactions have been reported ( 7 . 6 ) • Concomitant mTOR inhibitor or neprilysin inhibitor use may increase angioedema risk ( 7 . 7 , 7 . 8 ) 7 . 1 Diuretics Initiation of lisinopril in patients on diuretics may result in excessive reduction of blood pressure .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either decreasing or discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril .
If this is not possible , reduce the starting dose of lisinopril [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , monitor the patient ’ s serum potassium frequently .
7 . 2 Antidiabetics Concomitant administration of lisinopril and antidiabetic medicines ( insulins , oral hypoglycemic agents ) may cause an increased blood - glucose - lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
The VA NEPHRON trial enrolled 1448 patients with type 2 diabetes , elevated urinary - albumin - to - creatinine ratio , and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate ( GFR 30 to 89 . 9 mL / min ) , randomized them to lisinopril or placebo on a background of losartan therapy and followed them for a median of 2 . 2 years .
Patients receiving the combination of losartan and lisinopril did not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy for the combined endpoint of decline in GFR , end state renal disease , or death , but experienced an increased incidence of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury compared with the monotherapy group .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 5 Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs , which cause elimination of sodium , including ACE inhibitors .
Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concurrent use .
7 . 6 Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril .
7 . 7 mTOR Inhibitors Patients taking concomitant mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 8 Neprilysin Inhibitor Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Race : Less antihypertensive effect in blacks than non - blacks ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Lisinopril can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue lisinopril as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population ( s ) are unknown .
In the general U . S . population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria or hypotension occur in neonates with a history of in utero exposure to lisinopril , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary No data are available regarding the presence of lisinopril in human milk or the effects of lisinopril on the breast fed infant or on milk production .
Lisinopril is present in rat milk .
Because of the potential for severe adverse reactions in the breastfed infant , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with lisinopril .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Antihypertensive effects and safety of lisinopril have been established in pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
No relevant differences between the adverse reaction profile for pediatric patients and adult patients were identified .
Safety and effectiveness of lisinopril have not been established in pediatric patients under the age of 6 or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , and Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Neonates with a history of in utero exposure tolisinopril If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dosage adjustment with lisinopril is necessary in elderly patients .
In a clinical study of lisinopril in patients with myocardial infarctions ( GISSI - 3 Trial ) 4 , 413 ( 47 % ) were 65 and over , while 1 , 656 ( 18 % ) were 75 and over .
In this study , 4 . 8 % of patients aged 75 years and older discontinued lisinopril treatment because of renal dysfunction vs . 1 . 3 % of patients younger than 75 years .
No other differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Race ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in non blacks .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Dose adjustment of lisinopril is required in patients undergoing hemodialysis or whose creatinine clearance is ≤ 30 mL / min .
No dose adjustment of lisinopril is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Following a single oral dose of 20 g / kg no lethality occurred in rats , and death occurred in one of 20 mice receiving the same dose .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension , for which the usual treatment would be intravenous infusion of normal saline solution .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Lisinopril , USP is an oral long - acting angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Lisinopril , a synthetic peptide derivative , is chemically described as ( S ) - 1 - [ N2 - ( 1 - carboxy - 3 - phenylpropyl ) - L - lysyl ] - L - proline dihydrate .
Its empirical formula is C 21 H 31 N 3 O 52 H 2 O and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lisinopril , USP is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , with a molecular weight of 441 . 53 .
It is soluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Lisinopril tablets , USP are supplied as 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg and 40 mg tablets for oral administration .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , or 40 mg of lisinopril .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake ( 10 mg only ) , FD & C Yellow # 5 ( tartrazine ) Aluminum Lake ( 20 mg , 30 mg , and 40 mg , only ) , magnesium stearate , mannitol , pregelatinized starch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Lisinopril inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
The beneficial effects of lisinopril in hypertension and heart failure appear to result primarily from suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with lisinopril alone for up to 24 weeks , the mean increase in serum potassium was approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L ; however , approximately 15 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 6 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L .
In the same study , patients treated with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 24 weeks had a mean decrease in serum potassium of 0 . 1 mEq / L ; approximately 4 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 12 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of lisinopril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which lisinopril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin angiotensin - aldosterone system , lisinopril is antihypertensive even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although lisinopril was antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to monotherapy than non Black patients .
Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide further reduced blood pressure in Black and non - Black patients and any racial differences in blood pressure response were no longer evident .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hypertension Adult Patients : Administration of lisinopril to patients with hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is usually not observed although it can occur and should be anticipated in volume and / or salt - depleted patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
When given together with thiazide - type diuretics , the blood pressure lowering effects of the two drugs are approximately additive .
In most patients studied , onset of antihypertensive activity was seen at one hour after oral administration of an individual dose of lisinopril , with peak reduction of blood pressure achieved by 6 hours .
Although an antihypertensive effect was observed 24 hours after dosing with recommended single daily doses , the effect was more consistent and the mean effect was considerably larger in some studies with doses of 20 mg or more than with lower doses ; however , at all doses studied , the mean antihypertensive effect was substantially smaller 24 hours after dosing than it was 6 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effects of lisinopril are maintained during long - term therapy .
Abrupt withdrawal of lisinopril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure , or a significant increase in blood pressure compared to pretreatment levels .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents In a study in 36 patients with mild to moderate hypertension where the antihypertensive effects of lisinopril alone were compared to lisinopril given concomitantly with indomethacin , the use of indomethacin was associated with a reduced effect , although the difference between the two regimens was not significant .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Adult Patients : Following oral administration of lisinopril , peak serum concentrations of lisinopril occur within about 7 hours , although there was a trend to a small delay in time taken to reach peak serum concentrations in acute myocardial infarction patients .
Food does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril .
Declining serum concentrations exhibit a prolonged terminal phase , which does not contribute to drug accumulation .
This terminal phase probably represents saturable binding to ACE and is not proportional to dose .
Upon multiple dosing , lisinopril exhibits an effective half - life of 12 hours .
Lisinopril does not appear to be bound to other serum proteins .
Lisinopril does not undergo metabolism and is excreted unchanged entirely in the urine .
Based on urinary recovery , the mean extent of absorption of lisinopril is approximately 25 % , with large intersubject variability ( 6 % to 60 % ) at all doses tested ( 5 mg to 80 mg ) .
The absolute bioavailability of lisinopril is reduced to 16 % in patients with stable NYHA Class II - IV congestive heart failure , and the volume of distribution appears to be slightly smaller than that in normal subjects .
The oral bioavailability of lisinopril in patients with acute myocardial infarction is similar to that in healthy volunteers .
Impaired renal function decreases elimination of lisinopril , which is excreted principally through the kidneys , but this decrease becomes clinically important only when the glomerular filtration rate is below 30 mL / min .
Above this glomerular filtration rate , the elimination half - life is little changed .
With greater impairment , however , peak and trough lisinopril levels increase , time to peak concentration increases and time to attain steady state is prolonged [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
Pediatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of lisinopril were studied in 29 pediatric hypertensive patients between 6 years and 16 years with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
After doses of 0 . 1 mg per kg to 0 . 2 mg per kg , steady state peak plasma concentrations of lisinopril occurred within 6 hours and the extent of absorption based on urinary recovery was about 28 % .
These values are similar to those obtained previously in adults .
The typical value of lisinopril oral clearance ( systemic clearance / absolute bioavailability ) in a child weighing 30 kg is 10 L / h , which increases in proportion to renal function .
In a multicenter , open - label pharmacokinetic study of daily oral lisinopril in 22 pediatric hypertensive patients with stable kidney transplant ( ages 7 to 17 years ; estimated glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) , dose normalized exposures were in the range reported previously in children without a kidney transplant .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect when lisinopril was administered for 105 weeks to male and female rats at doses up to 90 mg per kg per day ( about 56 or 9 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose , based on body weight and body surface area , respectively ) .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when lisinopril was administered for 92 weeks to ( male and female ) mice at doses up to 135 mg per kg per day ( about 84 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose ) .
This dose was 6 . 8 times the maximum human dose based on body surface area in mice .
Lisinopril was not mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
It was also negative in a forward mutation assay using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Lisinopril did not produce single strand DNA breaks in an in vitro alkaline elution rat hepatocyte assay .
In addition , lisinopril did not produce increases in chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro test in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo study in mouse bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on reproductive performance in male and female rats treated with up to 300 mg per kg per day of lisinopril .
This dose is 188 times and 30 times the maximum human dose when based on mg / kg and mg / m 2 , respectively .
Studies in rats indicate that lisinopril crosses the blood brain barrier poorly .
Multiple doses of lisinopril in rats do not result in accumulation in any tissues .
Milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
By whole body autoradiography , radioactivity was found in the placenta following administration of labeled drug to pregnant rats , but none was found in the fetuses .
* Calculations assume a human weight of 50 kg and human body surface area of 1 . 62 m 2 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Hypertension Two dose - response studies utilizing a once - daily regimen were conducted in 438 mild to moderate hypertensive patients not on a diuretic .
Blood pressure was measured 24 hours after dosing .
An antihypertensive effect of lisinopril was seen with 5 mg of lisinopril in some patients .
However , in both studies blood pressure reduction occurred sooner and was greater in patients treated with 10 mg , 20 mg or 80 mg of lisinopril than patients treated with 5 mg of lisinopril .
In controlled clinical studies of patients with mild to moderate hypertension , patients were treated with lisinopril 20 mg to 80 mg daily , hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg to 50 mg daily or atenolol 50 mg to 200 mg daily ; and in other studies of patients with moderate to severe hypertension , patients were treated with lisinopril 20 mg to 80 mg daily or metoprolol 100 mg to 200 mg daily .
Lisinopril demonstrated superior reductions of systolic and diastolic compared to hydrochlorothiazide in a population that was 75 % Caucasian .
Lisinopril was approximately equivalent to atenolol and metoprolol in reducing diastolic blood pressure , and had somewhat greater effects on systolic blood pressure .
Lisinopril had similar blood pressure reductions and adverse effects in younger and older ( > 65 years ) patients .
It was less effective in reducing blood pressure in Blacks than in Caucasians .
In hemodynamic studies of lisinopril in patients with essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance with little or no change in cardiac output and in heart rate .
In a study in nine hypertensive patients , following administration of lisinopril , there was an increase in mean renal blood flow that was not significant .
Data from several small studies are inconsistent with respect to the effect of lisinopril on glomerular filtration rate in hypertensive patients with normal renal function , but suggest that changes , if any , are not large .
In patients with renovascular hypertension lisinopril has been shown to be well tolerated and effective in reducing blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients : In a clinical study involving 115 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed < 50 kg received either 0 . 625 mg , 2 . 5 mg or 20 mg of lisinopril once daily and patients who weighed ≥ 50 kg received either 1 . 25 mg , 5 mg , or 40 mg of lisinopril once daily .
At the end of 2 weeks , lisinopril lowered trough blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner with antihypertensive efficacy demonstrated at doses > 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 02 mg per kg ) .
This effect was confirmed in a randomized withdrawal phase , where the diastolic pressure rose by about 9 mmHg more in patients randomized to placebo than compared to patients who remained on the middle and high doses of lisinopril .
The dose - dependent antihypertensive effect of lisinopril was consistent across several demographic subgroups : age , Tanner stage , gender , and race .
In this study , lisinopril was generally well - tolerated .
In the above pediatric studies , lisinopril was given either as tablets or in a suspension for those children and infants who were unable to swallow tablets or who required a lower dose than is available in tablet form [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
14 . 2 Heart Failure In two placebo controlled , 12 - week clinical studies compared the addition of lisinopril up to 20 mg daily to digitalis and diuretics alone .
The combination of lisinopril , digitalis and diuretics reduced the following signs and symptoms of heart failure : edema , rales , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and jugular venous distention .
In one of the studies , the combination of lisinopril , digitalis and diuretics reduced orthopnea , presence of third heart sound and the number of patients classified as NYHA Class III and IV ; and improved exercise tolerance .
A large ( over 3000 patients ) survival study , the ATLAS Trial , comparing 2 . 5 mg and 35 mg of lisinopril in patients with systolic heart failure , showed that the higher dose of lisinopril had outcomes at least as favorable as the lower dose .
During baseline - controlled clinical trials , in patients with systolic heart failure receiving digitalis and diuretics , single doses of lisinopril resulted in decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , systemic vascular resistance and blood pressure accompanied by an increase in cardiac output and no change in heart rate .
14 . 3 Acute Myocardial Infarction The Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell ’ Infarto Miocardico ( GISSI - 3 ) study was a multicenter , controlled , randomized , unblinded clinical trial conducted in 19 , 394 patients with acute myocardial infarction ( MI ) admitted to a coronary care unit .
It was designed to examine the effects of short - term ( 6 week ) treatment with lisinopril , nitrates , their combination , or no therapy on short - term ( 6 week ) mortality and on long - term death and markedly impaired cardiac function .
Hemodynamically - stable patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms were randomized , in a 2 x 2 factorial design , to six weeks of either 1 ) lisinopril alone ( n = 4841 ) , 2 ) nitrates alone ( n = 4869 ) , 3 ) lisinopril plus nitrates ( n = 4841 ) , or 4 ) open control ( n = 4843 ) .
All patients received routine therapies , including thrombolytics ( 72 % ) , aspirin ( 84 % ) , and a beta blocker ( 31 % ) , as appropriate , normally utilized in acute myocardial infarction ( MI ) patients .
The protocol excluded patients with hypotension ( systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg ) , severe heart failure , cardiogenic shock , and renal dysfunction ( serum creatinine > 2 mg per dL and / or proteinuria > 500 mg per 24 h ) .
Patients randomized to lisinopril received 5 mg within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms , 5 mg after 24 hours , and then 10 mg daily thereafter .
Patients with systolic blood pressure less than 120 mmHg at baseline received 2 . 5 mg of lisinopril .
If hypotension occurred , the lisinopril dose was reduced or if severe hypotension occurred lisinopril was stopped [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
The primary outcomes of the trial were the overall mortality at 6 weeks and a combined end point at 6 months after the myocardial infarction , consisting of the number of patients who died , had late ( day 4 ) clinical congestive heart failure , or had extensive left ventricular damage defined as ejection fraction ≤ 35 % or an akinetic - dyskinetic [ A - D ] score ≥ 45 % .
Patients receiving lisinopril ( n = 9646 ) , alone or with nitrates , had an 11 % lower risk of death ( p = 0 . 04 ) compared to patients who did not receive lisinopril ( n = 9672 ) ( 6 . 4 % vs . 7 . 2 % , respectively ) at six weeks .
Although patients randomized to receive lisinopril for up to six weeks also fared numerically better on the combined end point at 6 months , the open nature of the assessment of heart failure , substantial loss to follow - up echocardiography , and substantial excess use of lisinopril between 6 weeks and 6 months in the group randomized to 6 weeks of lisinopril , preclude any conclusion about this end point .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction , treated with lisinopril , had a higher ( 9 . 0 % versus 3 . 7 % ) incidence of persistent hypotension ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) and renal dysfunction ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % ) in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg per dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 20 mg Tablets : Yellow , round , unscored , flat - faced , beveled - edge tablets , debossed WATSON and 408 on the periphery of one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 68071 - 5036 - 1 BOTTLES OF 1000 Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture , freezing and excessive heat .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION NOTE : This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Pregnancy : Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to notify their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema may occur at any time during treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril .
Tell patients to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Lactation : Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with lisinopril [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Tell patients to report light - headedness especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , tell the patient to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Tell patients that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; advise patients accordingly .
Hyperkalemia : Tell patients not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Hypoglycemia : Tell diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or insulin starting an ACE inhibitor to monitor for hypoglycemia closely , especially during the first month of combined use [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Leukopenia / Neutropenia : Tell patients to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which may be a sign of leukopenia / neutropenia .
Brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Watson Pharma Private Limited Verna , Salcette Goa 403 722 INDIA Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Revised : November 2017 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
