Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies - Sneezing - Nasal Stuffiness - Runny nose - Post nasal drip Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) Removes nasal and sinus drainage Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes Moisturizes dry nasal passages Keep out of reach of children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved .
Do not use unfiltered tap water .
see instructions inside box for proper water sources Do not use if nasal passages are completely blocked or if you have an ear infection or blocked ears .
Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : Use 1 - 2 packets per 8 fl oz ( 240 mL ) up to every 2 hours as needed .
Children under 4 years : Consult a physician See enclosed instruction sheet for complete directions and proper use .
Other Information - Inspect saline packets for integrity - Do not use saline packets if open or torn - Protect saline packets form excessive heat and moisture - See saline packets or box for lot number and expiration date Questions ?
1 - 888 - 547 - 5492 Active ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP ( 700 mg ) Sodium Chloride USP ( 2300 mg ) Inactive Ingredients None Instructions for Use of the SinuCleanse Squeeze Directions : Read through entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Remove the cap from the SinuCleanse Squeeze bottle .
2 .
Pour the pre - mixed saline dry ingredients into the SinuCleanse Squeeze Bottle .
First - time users should start with 1 packet of the saline dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 2 full packets .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
3 .
Fill the bottle with a proper water source * leaving approximately 1 / 2 inch of air at the top of the bottle .
This makes 1 cup ( 8 oz . )
of solution .
4 .
Tighten the cap on the bottle securely , place one finger over the tip of the cap and gently shake the bottle until the dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
5 .
Lean over the sink with your head bent down so you are looking directly into the basin .
Place the tip of the cap up to the right nostril and gently insert the tip so that it forms a comfortable seal .
Aim the tip at the back of your head , not at the top of your head .
6 .
Squeeze the bottle gently so that the solution enters the right nostril .
Do not inhale or " snort " the solution into the nose - breathe through your mouth .
7 .
In a few moments the solution will begin to drain out of the left nostril .
Continue to squeeze the bottle gently until you have used approximately half of the solution .
8 .
Remove the tip of the bottle from your nostril , then exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucus and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
9 .
Repeat the procedure on the left nostril with the remaining solution .
10 .
A small amount of solution will remain at the bottom of the bottle .
Discard the remaining solution .
11 .
Thoroughly rinse the bottle after each use with water that has been distilled , sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the bottle open to air dry completely .
The SinuCleanse Squeeze Bottle is also top - rack dishwasher safe .
Hints for a more comfortable nasal wash - Begin using the SinuCleanse System slowly .
A full pot or bottle of solution on each side is not necessary to receive the full benefit .
- If the solution is too warm or too cold , the nasal wash will be uncomfortable .
- If stinging or irritation occurs , try using 1 / 2 of a packet of dry ingredients for the Neti Pot or 1 packet per Squeeze Bottle of the saline dry ingredients .
Gradually work up to using the solution at full strength .
Do not use less than 1 / 2 packet for the Neti Pot or 1 packet per Squeeze bottle .
- If you experience ear discomfort after use , try to blow your nose more gently after the wash .
If the problem persists , the openings of your Eustachian tubes may be particularly wide and the use of the SinuCleanse System may need to be discontinued .
- Breathe continuously through the mouth when using the SinuCleanse system to avoid solution draining from the back of the nose into the mouth .
- Some people experience irritation of the skin just insdie the nostrils with repeated nasal washing .
Applying a thin layer of aloe to the inside of the nostrils before or after the nasal wash will be soothing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
