Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 6 % Octocrylene 1 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistnat sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , butylene glycol , cetearyl glucoside , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Dimethicone , Mica , Cetearyl alcohol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Cyclohexasiloxane , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Xanthan gum , Methylparaben , Sodium ascorbyl phosphate , Dimethiconol , Parfum ( fragrance ) , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , T - buytl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Polysorbate - 20 , Haeamatococcus pluvialis powder , BHT , Polyglucuronic acid , Potassium sorbate , Silica , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Biotin , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com Lift and Luminate Skincare System The No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System targets 3 key signs of aging in mature skin : wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone .
With Peptide technology to help deliver visible firming benefitss to your skin in as little as 4 weeks .
Key Ingredients Matrixyl 3000 and Retinyl palmitate ( Pro - retinol ) to help reduce the appearance of wrinkles and provide firmer feeling skin .
Sophora and Kiwi extracts to help provide a more even skin tone - enhanced by a Poly - hydroxyacid in the night serum .
Vitamin C , Hawaiian algae , Lipoaminoacid - an energising complex to help older skin behave like younger skin and leave skin looking brighter and younger , with a more even skin tone .
Shea butter moisturizes and noursihes the skin leaving it softer and smoother Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 helps to provide protection against the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sun protection measures .
What is the No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System ?
An advanced skincare system consisting of day and night serum , a day cream and a night cream for firmer feeling and more radiant - looking skin in just 4 weeks .
Suitable for all skin types , it is ideal for those with deeper lines and wrinkles who are looking for a more youthful appearance .
How do I use it ?
Smooth No7 Lift and Luminate Day Serum onto face and neck with your finger tips , followed by No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream .
At night , follow your No7 Lift and Luminate Night Serum application with No7 Lift and Luminate Night Cream , to moisturise and improve the appearance of deeper lines and wrinkles while you sleep .
What should I use with these products ?
To complete your beauty regime use No7 Lift and Luminate Eye Cream , specially developed to help brighten , smooth and leave delicate skin around the eyes feeling firmer .
Advanced Skincare No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum tackles the appearance of 3 main signs of aging : wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone in 4 weeks with skin looking younger and brighter from day one .
Skin firming complex containing Vitamin A , Peptises and an antioxidant complex to help improve skin texture and provide smoother and firmer feeling skin .
Independently proven to reduce the appearance of dark spots , with a unique anti - aging complex , it also works to reduce the appearance of wrinkles and leave the skin feeling firmer .
No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare System A daily skincare regime to visibly lift , even skin tone and improve the appearance of lines and wrinkles .
No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream SPF 15 A rich and nourishing day cream designed to lift and firm the skin , reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles , and even skin tone .
After 4 weeks use , skin is left feeling firmer and looking more radiant .
To use : After cleansing and applying Lift and Luminate Day Serum , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 Lift and Luminate Night Cream with regular night - time application , the advanced night cream works to boost your skin ' s radiance while you sleep .
The skin firming and patented energizing complexes help to reveal revitalized , smoother and more supple skin when you wake .
To use : Just before bedtime , after cleansing and applying Lift and Luminate Night Serum , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
No7 Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum Lift and Luminate Day and Night Serum targets the appearance of 3 key signs of visible aging : wrinkles , lack of firmness and uneven skin tone .
During the day , our skin brightening complex is designed to help diminish the appearance of age spots , and our firming complex to help proved smoother and firmer looking skin .
At night , a PHA is included to help exfoliate the skin ' s surface for a more revitalised and more even skin tone .
To use : Smooth the day serum into your face every morning .
Smooth the night serum intoyour face every evening .
Follow with your Lift and Luminate Day or Night Cream .
carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
