DESCRIPTION Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP are oral antihyperglycemic drugs used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C 4 H 11 N 5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether , and chloroform .
The pKa of Metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of Metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets , USP contains 500 mg , 850 mg , or 1000 mg of Metformin hydrochloride .
Each tablet contains the inactive ingredients povidone ( K - 30 ) , povidone ( K - 90 ) , pregelatinized starch , and magnesium stearate .
In addition , the coating for the tablets contains artificial blackberry flavor , hypromellose , macrogol and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , Metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With Metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability The absolute bioavailability of a metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 % to 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 to 1500 mg , and 850 to 2550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Food decreases the extent of and slightly delays the absorption of metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak plasma concentration ( C max ) , a 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 - minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( T max ) following administration of a single 850 mg tablet of metformin with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
The clinical relevance of these decreases is unknown .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of Metformin following single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin hydrochloride tablets , steady state plasma concentrations of Metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally < 1 µg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride tablets , maximum Metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 mcg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Elimination Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of Metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single - or multiple - dose pharmacokinetics of Metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) , nor is there any accumulation of Metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
Renal Insufficiency In patients with decreased renal function , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased ( see Table 1 ; also see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Impairment No pharmacokinetic studies of Metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of Metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and C max is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in Metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Table 1 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformin Hydrochloride TabletsSubject Groups : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablet dose a ( number of subjects ) C maxb ( mcg / mL ) T maxc ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderlyf , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CL crg 61 to 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CL cr 31 to 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CL cr 10 to 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration c Time to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 to 59 years ) e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 to 81 years ) g CL cr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m 2 Pediatrics After administration of a single oral metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablet with food , geometric mean metformin C max and AUC differed less than 5 % between pediatric type 2 diabetic patients ( 12 to 16 years of age ) and gender - and weight - matched healthy adults ( 20 to 45 years of age ) , all with normal renal function .
Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin hydrochloride tablets was comparable in males and females .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) , and Hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS In a double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter U . S . clinical trial involving obese patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia was not adequately controlled with dietary management alone ( baseline fasting plasma glucose [ FPG ] of approximately 240 mg / dL ) , treatment with metformin hydrochloride tablets ( up to 2550 mg / day ) for 29 weeks resulted in significant mean net reductions in fasting and postprandial plasma glucose ( PPG ) and hemoglobin A 1 c ( HbA 1 c ) of 59 mg / dL , 83 mg / dL , and 1 . 8 % , respectively , compared to the placebo group ( see Table 2 ) .
A 29 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin hydrochloride tablets and glyburide , alone and in combination , was conducted in obese patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve adequate glycemic control while on maximum doses of glyburide ( baseline FPG of approximately 250 mg / dL ) ( see Table 3 ) .
Patients randomized to the combination arm started therapy with metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg .
At the end of each week of the first four weeks of the trial , these patients had their dosages of metformin hydrochloride tablets increased by 500 mg if they had failed to reach target fasting plasma glucose .
After week four , such dosage adjustments were made monthly , although no patient was allowed to exceed metformin hydrochloride tablets 2500 mg .
Patients in the metformin hydrochloride tablets only arm ( metformin plus placebo ) followed the same titration schedule .
At the end of the trial , approximately 70 % of the patients in the combination group were taking metformin hydrochloride tablets 2000 mg / glyburide 20 mg or metformin hydrochloride tablets 2500 mg / glyburide 20 mg .
Patients randomized to continue on glyburide experienced worsening of glycemic control , with mean increases in FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c of 14 mg / dL , 3 mg / dL , and 0 . 2 % , respectively .
In contrast , those randomized to metformin hydrochloride tablets ( up to 2500 mg / day ) experienced a slight improvement , with mean reductions in FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c of 1 mg / dL , 6 mg / dL , and 0 . 4 % , respectively .
The combination of metformin hydrochloride tablets and glyburide was effective in reducing FPG , PPG , and HbA 1 c levels by 63 mg / dL , 65 mg / dL , and 1 . 7 % , respectively .
Compared to results of glyburide treatment alone , the net differences with combination treatment were - 77 mg / dL , - 68 mg / dL , and - 1 . 9 % , respectively ( see Table 3 ) .
The magnitude of the decline in fasting blood glucose concentration following the institution of metformin hydrochloride tablets therapy was proportional to the level of fasting hyperglycemia .
Patients with type 2 diabetes with higher fasting glucose concentrations experienced greater declines in plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin .
In clinical studies , metformin hydrochloride tablets , alone or in combination with a sulfonylurea , lowered mean fasting serum triglycerides , total cholesterol , and LDL cholesterol levels and had no adverse effects on other lipid levels ( see Table 4 ) .
In contrast to sulfonylureas , body weight of individuals on metformin hydrochloride tablets tended to remain stable or even decrease somewhat ( see Tables 2 and 3 ) .
A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to achieve adequate glycemic control on insulin alone ( see Table 5 ) .
Patients randomized to receive metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin achieved a reduction in HbA 1 c of 2 . 10 % , compared to a 1 . 56 % reduction in HbA 1 c achieved by insulin plus placebo .
The improvement in glycemic control was achieved at the final study visit with 16 % less insulin , 93 . 0 U / day vs 110 . 6 U / day , metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo , respectively , p = 0 . 04 .
A second double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( n = 51 ) , with 16 weeks of randomized treatment , demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes controlled on insulin for 8 weeks with an average HbA 1 c of 7 . 46 ± 0 . 97 % , the addition of metformin hydrochloride tablets maintained similar glycemic control ( HbA 1 c 7 . 15 ± 0 . 61 versus 6 . 97 ± 0 . 62 for metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , respectively ) with 19 % less insulin versus baseline ( reduction of 23 . 68 ± 30 . 22 versus an increase of 0 . 43 ± 25 . 20 units for metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , p < 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study demonstrated that the combination of metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin resulted in reduction in body weight of 3 . 11 ± 4 . 30 lbs , compared to an increase of 1 . 30 ± 6 . 08 lbs for placebo plus insulin , p = 0 . 01 .
A 24 - week , double - blind , randomized study of metformin hydrochloride tablets , taken twice daily ( with breakfast and evening meal ) , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had been treated with metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablets twice daily for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry .
The metformin hydrochloride tablets dose had not necessarily been titrated to achieve a specific level of glycemic control prior to study entry .
Patients qualified for the study if HbA1c was ≤ 8 . 5 % and FPG was ≤ 200 mg / dL .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 7 .
After 12 weeks of treatment , there was an increase in mean HbA1c in all groups .
Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described study of metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets are shown in Table 9 .
Pediatric Clinical Studies In a double - blind , placebo - controlled study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes ( mean FPG 182 . 2 mg / dL ) , treatment with metformin hydrochloride tablets ( up to 2000 mg / day ) for up to 16 weeks ( mean duration of treatment 11 weeks ) resulted in a significant mean net reduction in FPG of 64 . 3 mg / dL , compared with placebo ( see Table 10 ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults and children with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with : • Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
WARNINGS [ / S ] WARNINGS : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Lactic acidosis — There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / L ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate : pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels were generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets .
In metformin hydrochloride tablets treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and , if these symptoms occur , instruct them to discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : • Renal impairment — The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ’ s renal function include ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) • Before initiating metformin hydrochloride tablets , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) • Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
• Initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
• Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets .
In patients at risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
• In patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
• Drug interactions — The concomitant use of metformin hydrochloride tablets with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance , or increase metformin accumulation .
Consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
• Age 65 or greater — The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ’ s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients .
• Radiologic studies with contrast — Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop metformin hydrochloride tablets , at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart metformin hydrochloride tablets if renal function is stable .
• Surgery and other procedures — Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension , and renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
• Hypoxic states — Several of the post marketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may cause prerenal azotemia .
When such an event occurs , discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets .
• Excessive alcohol intake — Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets .
• Hepatic impairment — Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels — In controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride tablets of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin hydrochloride tablets and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at 2 - to 3 - year intervals may be useful .
Hypoglycemia — Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Macrovascular outcomes — There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride tablets or any other antidiabetic drug .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of metformin hydrochloride tablets and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function , and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of Metformin therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counselled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin hydrochloride tablets are used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
( See Patient Information printed below . )
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with metformin hydrochloride tablets therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B 12 deficiency should be excluded .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking metformin hydrochloride tablets prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with metformin hydrochloride tablets ) Glyburide — In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , coadministration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and C max were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide — A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood C max by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the C max and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically .
Nifedipine — A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin C max and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
T max and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Drugs that reduce metformin clearance — Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics . In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol , and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when coadministered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Other — Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient metformin hydrochloride tablets , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
\ Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors — Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Alcohol — Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately four times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , metformin hydrochloride tablets should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to Metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If metformin hydrochloride tablets are discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride tablets for the treatment of type 2 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years ( studies have not been conducted in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years ) .
Use of metformin hydrochloride tablets in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in adults with additional data from a controlled clinical study in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes , which demonstrated a similar response in glycemic control to that seen in adults .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Studies . )
In this study , adverse effects were similar to those described in adults .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients . )
A maximum daily dose of 2000 mg is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Recommended Dosing Schedule : Pediatrics . )
Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a US double - blind clinical study of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received metformin hydrochloride tablets therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin hydrochloride tablets patients , and that were more common in metformin hydrochloride tablets - than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 11 .
Table 11 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 . 0 Percent ) in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablet Monotherapy * Adverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Tablet Monotherapy Placebo ( n = 141 ) ( n = 145 ) % of Patients Diarrhea 53 . 2 11 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 25 . 5 8 . 3 Flatulence 12 . 1 5 . 5 Asthenia 9 . 2 5 . 5 Indigestion 7 . 1 4 . 1 Abdominal Discomfort 6 . 4 4 . 8 Headache 5 . 7 4 . 8 * Reactions those were more common in metformin hydrochloride tablets - than placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 to ≤ 5 . 0 % of metformin hydrochloride tablets patients and were more commonly reported with metformin hydrochloride tablets than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury have been reported with postmarketing use of metformin .
Pediatric Patients In clinical trials with metformin hydrochloride tablets in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin hydrochloride has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin hydrochloride tablets or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin hydrochloride tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2550 mg in adults and 2000 mg in pediatric patients ( 10 to 16 years of age ) .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets should be given in divided doses with meals .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin hydrochloride tablets and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin hydrochloride tablets may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Recommended Dosing Schedule AdultsThe usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg twice a day or 850 mg once a day , given with meals .
In general clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks , up to a total of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
The dosage of metformin hydrochloride tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerability .
Patients can also be titrated from 500 mg twice a day to 850 mg twice a day after 2 weeks .
For those patients requiring additional glycemic control , metformin hydrochloride tablets may be given to a maximum daily dose of 2550 mg per day .
Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given 3 times a day with meals .
PediatricsThe usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg twice a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
The dosage of metformin hydrochloride tablets must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerability .
Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets and periodically thereafter . Metformin hydrochloride tablet is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 .
Initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 is not recommended . In patients taking metformin hydrochloride tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy . Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets if the patient ’ s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart metformin hydrochloride if renal function is stable .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to 4 weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride tablet monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride tablets at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride tablet and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and prior failure on glyburide , patients started on metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg were titrated to 1000 / 20 mg , 1500 / 20 mg , 2000 / 20 mg , or 2500 / 20 mg of metformin hydrochloride tablets and glyburide , respectively , to reach the goal of glycemic control as measured by FPG , HbA1c , and plasma glucose response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( see Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to 1 to 3 months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Tablet and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride tablet therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride tablet therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin hydrochloride tablet should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2500 mg for metformin hydrochloride tablets .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride tablet is not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets are not recommended in patients below the age of 10 years .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
HOW SUPPLIED 850 mg - White to off - white , round , biconvex , film coated tablets debossing H / 103 on one side and plain on the other side .
NDC 68071 - 4605 - 1 BOTTLES OF 100 Storage Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers with child - resistant closure .
Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) Made in India Iss .
10 / 17 Patient Package Insert Patient Information Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets , USP Read this information carefully before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of your doctor ’ s advice .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What are metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
Metformin hydrochloride tablets are used to treat type 2 diabetes .
This is also known as non - insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
People with type 2 diabetes are not able to make enough insulin or respond normally to the insulin their bodies make .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems including kidney damage , amputations , and blindness .
Diabetes is also closely linked to heart disease .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of medicines taken by mouth , and by insulin shots .
Before you take metformin hydrochloride tablets , try to control your diabetes by exercise and weight loss .
While you take your diabetes medicine , continue to exercise and follow the diet advised for your diabetes .
No matter what your recommended diabetes management plan is , studies have shown that maintaining good blood sugar control can prevent or delay complications of diabetes , such as blindness .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets can help control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets do not cause your body to make more insulin .
Because of this , when taken alone , they rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , and usually do not cause weight gain .
However , when they are taken with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia is more likely to occur , as is weight gain .
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets may not be right for you .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
You should also discuss your choices with your doctor if you are nursing a child .
Can metformin hydrochloride tablets be used in children ?
Metformin hydrochloride tablets has been shown to effectively lower glucose levels in children ( ages 10 to 16 years ) with type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets have not been studied in children younger than 10 years old .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets have not been studied in combination with other oral glucose - control medicines or insulin in children .
If you have any questions about the use of metformin hydrochloride tablets in children , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
How should I take metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
Your doctor will tell you how much medicine to take and when to take it .
You will probably start out with a low dose of the medicine .
Your doctor may slowly increase your dose until your blood sugar is better controlled .
You should take metformin hydrochloride tablets with meals .
Your doctor may have you take other medicines along with metformin hydrochloride tablets to control your blood sugar .
These medicines may include insulin shots .
Taking metformin hydrochloride tablets with insulin may help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose .
Continue your exercise and diet program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that metformin hydrochloride tablets causes harm to the liver or kidneys .
Tell your doctor if you : • Have an illness that causes severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a much lower amount of liquid than normal .
These conditions can lead to severe dehydration ( loss of water in your body ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride tablets for a short time .
• Plan to have surgery or an x - ray procedure with injection of dye ( contrast agent ) .
you may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride tablets for a short time .
• Start to take other medicines or change how you take a medicine .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets can affect how well other drugs work , and some drugs can affect how well metformin hydrochloride tablets work .
Some medicines may cause high blood sugar .
What should I avoid while taking metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin hydrochloride tablets .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
• Lactic acidosis .
Metformin , the active ingredient in metformin hydrochloride tablets can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of an cause acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms , which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • you feel cold in your hands or feet • you feel dizzy or lightheaded • you have a slow or irregular heartbeat • you feel very weak or tired • you have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • you have trouble breathing • you feel sleepy or drowsy • you have stomach pains , nausea or vomiting Most people who have had lactic acidosis with metformin have other things that , combined with the metformin , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with metformin hydrochloride , if you : • have severe kidney problems , or your kidneys are affected by certain x - ray tests that use injectable dye • have liver problems • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term " binge " drinking • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids • have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke The best way to keep from having a problem with lactic acidosis from metformin is to tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Your doctor may decide to stop your metformin hydrochloride tablets for a while if you have any of these things .
Other Side Effects .
Common side effects of metformin hydrochloride tablets include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ’ ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take metformin hydrochloride tablets have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol , or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General advice about prescription medicines If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about metformin hydrochloride tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) MADE IN INDIA Code .
No : AP / DRUGS / 37 / 2003 Iss .
10 / 17 200000001719 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
