DESCRIPTION Verapamil hydrochloride ( verapamil HCl ) tablets , USP is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) available for oral administration in film - coated tablets containing 40 mg , 80 mg or 120 mg of verapamil hydrochloride .
The structural formula of verapamil HCl is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 27 H 38 N 2 O 4 • HCl M . W . = 491 . 08 Benzeneacetonitrile , a - [ 3 - [ [ 2 - ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ] methylamino ] propyl ] - 3 , 4 - dimethoxy - a - ( 1 - methylethyl ) hydrochloride Verapamil HCl is an almost white , crystalline powder , practically free of odor , with a bitter taste .
It is soluble in water , chloroform , and methanol .
Verapamil HCl is not chemically related to other cardioactive drugs .
Inactive ingredients include colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , light mineral oil , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide and hypromellose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Verapamil hydrochloride is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) that exerts its pharmacologic effects by modulating the influx of ionic calcium across the cell membrane of the arterial smooth muscle as well as in conductile and contractile myocardial cells .
Mechanism of Action Angina : The precise mechanism of action of verapamil hydrochloride as an antianginal agent remains to be fully determined , but includes the following two mechanisms : 1 .
Relaxation and prevention of coronary artery spasm : Verapamil hydrochloride dilates the main coronary arteries and coronary arterioles , both in normal and ischemic regions , and is a potent inhibitor of coronary artery spasm , whether spontaneous or ergonovine - induced .
This property increases myocardial oxygen delivery in patients with coronary artery spasm and is responsible for the effectiveness of verapamil hydrochloride in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ' s or variant ) as well as unstable angina at rest .
Whether this effect plays any role in classical effort angina is not clear , but studies of exercise tolerance have not shown an increase in the maximum exercise rate - pressure product , a widely accepted measure of oxygen utilization .
This suggests that , in general , relief of spasm or dilation of coronary arteries is not an important factor in classical angina .
2 .
Reduction of oxygen utilization : Verapamil hydrochloride regularly reduces the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works both at rest and at a given level of exercise by dilating peripheral arterioles .
This unloading of the heart reduces myocardial energy consumption and oxygen requirements and probably accounts for the effectiveness of verapamil hydrochloride in chronic stable effort angina .
Arrhythmia : Electrical activity through the AV node depends , to a significant degree , upon calcium influx through the slow channel .
By decreasing the influx of calcium , verapamil hydrochloride prolongs the effective refractory period within the AV node and slows AV conduction in a rate - related manner .
This property accounts for the ability of verapamil hydrochloride to slow the ventricular rate in patients with chronic atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation .
Normal sinus rhythm is usually not affected , but in patients with sick sinus syndrome , verapamil hydrochloride may interfere with sinus - node impulse generation and may induce sinus arrest or sinoatrial block .
Atrioventricular block can occur in patients without preexisting conduction defects ( see WARNINGS ) .
Verapamil hydrochloride decreases the frequency of episodes of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia .
Verapamil hydrochloride does not alter the normal atrial action potential or intraventricular conduction time , but in depressed atrial fibers it decreases amplitude , velocity of depolarization , and conduction velocity .
Verapamil hydrochloride may shorten the antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory bypass tract .
Acceleration of ventricular rate and / or ventricular fibrillation has been reported in patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and a coexisting accessory AV pathway following administration of verapamil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Verapamil hydrochloride has a local anesthetic action that is 1 . 6 times that of procaine on an equimolar basis .
It is not known whether this action is important at the doses used in man .
Essential hypertension : Verapamil hydrochloride exerts antihypertensive effects by decreasing systemic vascular resistance , usually without orthostatic decreases in blood pressure or reflex tachycardia ; bradycardia ( rate less than 50 beats / min ) is uncommon ( 1 . 4 % ) .
During isometric or dynamic exercise , verapamil hydrochloride does not alter systolic cardiac function in patients with normal ventricular function .
Verapamil hydrochloride does not alter total serum calcium levels .
However , one report suggested that calcium levels above the normal range may alter the therapeutic effect of Verapamil hydrochloride .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism : More than 90 % of the orally administered dose of Verapamil hydrochloride is absorbed .
Because of rapid biotransformation of verapamil during its first pass through the portal circulation , bioavailability ranges from 20 % to 35 % .
Peak plasma concentrations are reached between 1 and 2 hours after oral administration .
Chronic oral administration of 120 mg of verapamil HCl every 6 hours resulted in plasma levels of verapamil ranging from 125 to 400 ng / ml , with higher values reported occasionally .
A nonlinear correlation between the verapamil dose administered and verapamil plasma levels does exist .
No relationship has been established between the plasma concentration of verapamil and a reduction in blood pressure .
In early dose titration with verapamil , a relationship exists between verapamil plasma concentration and prolongation of the PR interval .
However , during chronic administration this relationship may disappear .
The mean elimination half - life in single - dose studies ranged from 2 . 8 to 7 . 4 hours .
In these same studies , after repetitive dosing , the half - life increased to a range from 4 . 5 to 12 . 0 hours ( after less than 10 consecutive doses given 6 hours apart ) .
Half - life of verapamil may increase during titration .
Aging may affect the pharmacokinetics of verapamil .
Elimination half - life may be prolonged in the elderly .
In healthy men , orally administered verapamil hydrochloride undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver .
Twelve metabolites have been identified in plasma ; all except norverapamil are present in trace amounts only .
Norverapamil can reach steady - state plasma concentrations approximately equal to those of verapamil itself .
The cardiovascular activity of norverapamil appears to be approximately 20 % that of verapamil .
Approximately 70 % of an administered dose is excreted as metabolites in the urine and 16 % or more in the feces within 5 days .
About 3 % to 4 % is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug .
Approximately 90 % is bound to plasma proteins .
In patients with hepatic insufficiency , metabolism is delayed and elimination half - life prolonged up to 14 to 16 hours ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; the volume of distribution is increased and plasma clearance reduced to about 30 % of normal .
Verapamil clearance values suggest that patients with liver dysfunction may attain therapeutic verapamil plasma concentrations with one third of the oral daily dose required for patients with normal liver function .
After four weeks of oral dosing ( 120 mg q . i . d . ) , verapamil and norverapamil levels were noted in the cerebrospinal fluid with estimated partition coefficient of 0 . 06 for verapamil and 0 . 04 for norverapamil .
Hemodynamics and myocardial metabolism : Verapamil hydrochloride reduces afterload and myocardial contractility .
Improved left ventricular diastolic function in patients with Idiopathic Hypertrophic Subaortic Stenosis ( IHSS ) and those with coronary heart disease has also been observed with verapamil hydrochloride therapy .
In most patients , including those with organic cardiac disease , the negative inotropic action of verapamil hydrochloride is countered by reduction of afterload , and cardiac index is usually not reduced .
However , in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction ( e . g . , pulmonary wedge pressure above 20 mm Hg or ejection fraction less than 30 % ) , or in patients taking beta - adrenergic blocking agents or other cardiodepressant drugs , deterioration of ventricular function may occur ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug interactions ) .
Pulmonary function : Verapamil hydrochloride does not induce bronchoconstriction and , hence , does not impair ventilatory function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Verapamil hydrochloride tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of the following : Angina 1 .
Angina at rest including : - Vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ' s variant ) angina - Unstable ( crescendo , pre - infarction ) angina 2 .
Chronic stable angina ( classic effort - associated angina ) Arrhythmias 1 .
In association with digitalis for the control of ventricular rate at rest and during stress in patients with chronic atrial flutter and / or atrial fibrillation ( see WARNINGS : Accessory bypass tract ) 2 .
Prophylaxis of repetitive paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia Essential hypertension Verapamil hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including this drug .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Verapamil HCl tablets are contraindicated in : 1 .
Severe left ventricular dysfunction ( see WARNINGS ) 2 .
Hypotension ( systolic pressure less than 90 mm Hg ) or cardiogenic shock 3 .
Sick sinus syndrome ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) 4 . Second - or third - degree AV block ( except in patients with a functioning artificial ventricular pacemaker ) 5 .
Patients with atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract ( e . g . , Wolff - Parkinson - White , Lown - Ganong - Levine syndromes ) ( see WARNINGS ) 6 .
Patients with known hypersensitivity to verapamil hydrochloride WARNINGS Heart failure : Verapamil has a negative inotropic effect , which in most patients is compensated by its afterload reduction ( decreased systemic vascular resistance ) properties without a net impairment of ventricular performance .
In clinical experience with 4 , 954 patients , 87 ( 1 . 8 % ) developed congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema .
Verapamil should be avoided in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction ( e . g . , ejection fraction less than 30 % ) or moderate to severe symptoms of cardiac failure and in patients with any degree of ventricular dysfunction if they are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocker ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug interactions ) .
Patients with milder ventricular dysfunction should , if possible , be controlled with optimum doses of digitalis and / or diuretics before verapamil treatment .
( Note interactions with digoxin under PRECAUTIONS ) Hypotension : Occasionally , the pharmacologic action of verapamil may produce a decrease in blood pressure below normal levels , which may result in dizziness or symptomatic hypotension .
The incidence of hypotension observed in 4 , 954 patients enrolled in clinical trials was 2 . 5 % .
In hypertensive patients , decreases in blood pressure below normal are unusual .
Tilt - table testing ( 60 degrees ) was not able to induce orthostatic hypotension .
Elevated liver enzymes : Elevations of transaminases with and without concomitant elevations in alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin have been reported .
Such elevations have sometimes been transient and may disappear even with continued verapamil treatment .
Several cases of hepatocellular injury related to verapamil have been proven by rechallenge ; half of these had clinical symptoms ( malaise , fever , and / or right upper quadrant pain ) , in addition to elevation of SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase .
Periodic monitoring of liver function in patients receiving verapamil is therefore prudent .
Accessory bypass tract ( Wolff - Parkinson - White or Lown - Ganong - Levine ) : Some patients with paroxysmal and / or chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter and a coexisting accessory AV pathway have developed increased antegrade conduction across the accessory pathway bypassing the AV node , producing a very rapid ventricular response or ventricular fibrillation after receiving intravenous verapamil ( or digitalis ) .
Although a risk of this occurring with oral verapamil has not been established , such patients receiving oral verapamil may be at risk and its use in these patients is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Treatment is usually DC - cardioversion .
Cardioversion has been used safely and effectively after oral verapamil hydrochloride .
Atrioventricular block : The effect of verapamil on AV conduction and the SA node may cause asymptomatic first - degree AV block and transient bradycardia , sometimes accompanied by nodal escape rhythms .
PR - interval prolongation is correlated with verapamil plasma concentrations especially during the early titration phase of therapy .
Higher degrees of AV block , however , were infrequently ( 0 . 8 % ) observed .
Marked first - degree block or progressive development to second - or third - degree AV block requires a reduction in dosage or , in rare instances , discontinuation of verapamil HCl and institution of appropriate therapy , depending on the clinical situation .
Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) : In 120 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( most of them refractory or intolerant to propranolol ) who received therapy with verapamil at doses up to 720 mg / day , a variety of serious adverse effects were seen .
Three patients died in pulmonary edema ; all had severe left ventricular outflow obstruction and a past history of left ventricular dysfunction .
Eight other patients had pulmonary edema and / or severe hypotension ; abnormally high ( greater than 20 mm Hg ) pulmonary wedge pressure and a marked left ventricular outflow obstruction were present in most of these patients .
Concomitant administration of quinidine ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug interactions ) preceded the severe hypotension in 3 of the 8 patients ( 2 of whom developed pulmonary edema ) .
Sinus bradycardia occurred in 11 % of the patients , second - degree AV block in 4 % , and sinus arrest in 2 % .
It must be appreciated that this group of patients had a serious disease with a high mortality rate .
Most adverse effects responded well to dose reduction , and only rarely did verapamil use have to be discontinued .
PRECAUTIONS General Use in patients with impaired hepatic function : Since verapamil is highly metabolized by the liver , it should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired hepatic function .
Severe liver dysfunction prolongs the elimination half - life of verapamil to about 14 to 16 hours ; hence , approximately 30 % of the dose given to patients with normal liver function should be administered to these patients .
Careful monitoring for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of excessive pharmacologic effects ( see OVERDOSAGE ) should be carried out .
Use in patients with attenuated ( decreased ) neuromuscular transmission : It has been reported that verapamil decreases neuromuscular transmission in patients with Duchenne ' s muscular dystrophy , and that verapamil prolongs recovery from the neuromuscular blocking agent vecuronium , and causes a worsening of myasthenia gravis .
It may be necessary to decrease the dosage of verapamil when it is administered to patients with attenuated neuromuscular transmission .
Use in patients with impaired renal function : About 70 % of an administered dose of verapamil is excreted as metabolites in the urine .
Verapamil is not removed by hemodialysis .
Until further data are available , verapamil should be administered cautiously to patients with impaired renal function .
These patients should be carefully monitored for abnormal prolongation of the PR interval or other signs of overdosage ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Drug Interactions Cytochrome inducers / inhibitors : In vitro metabolic studies indicate that verapamil is metabolized by cytochrome P450 CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 and CYP2C18 .
Clinically significant interactions have been reported with inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , erythromycin , ritonavir ) causing elevation of plasma levels of verapamil while inducers of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , rifampin ) have caused a lowering of plasma levels of verapamil .
HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors : The use of HMG - CoA reductase inhibitors that are CYP3A4 substrates in combination with verapamil has been associated with reports of myopathy / rhabdomyolysis .
Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of verapamil with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in exposure to simvastatin 2 . 5 - fold that following simvastatin alone .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on verapamil to 10 mg daily .
Limit the daily dose of lovastatin to 40 mg .
Lower starting and maintenance doses of other CYP3A4 substrates ( e . g . , atorvastatin ) may be required as verapamil may increase the plasma concentration of these drugs .
Ivabradine : Concurrent use of verapamil increases exposure to ivabradine and may exacerbate bradycardia and conduction disturbances .
Avoid co - administration of verapamil and ivabradine .
Aspirin : In a few reported cases , co - administration of verapamil with aspirin has led to increased bleeding times greater than observed with aspirin alone .
Grapefruit juice : Grapefruit juice may increase plasma levels of verapamil .
Alcohol : Verapamil may increase blood alcohol concentrations and prolong its effects .
Beta - blockers : Controlled studies in small numbers of patients suggest that the concomitant use of verapamil hydrochloride and oral beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be beneficial in certain patients with chronic stable angina or hypertension , but available information is not sufficient to predict with confidence the effects of concurrent treatment in patients with left ventricular dysfunction or cardiac conduction abnormalities .
Concomitant therapy with beta - adrenergic blockers and verapamil may result in additive negative effects on heart rate , atrioventricular conduction and / or cardiac contractility .
In one study involving 15 patients treated with high doses of propranolol ( median dose : 480 mg / day ; range : 160 to 1 , 280 mg / day ) for severe angina , with preserved left ventricular function ( ejection fraction greater than 35 % ) , the hemodynamic effects of additional therapy with verapamil HCl were assessed using invasive methods .
The addition of verapamil to high - dose beta - blockers induced modest negative inotropic and chronotropic effects that were not severe enough to limit short - term ( 48 hours ) combination therapy in this study .
These modest cardiodepressant effects persisted for greater than 6 but less than 30 hours after abrupt withdrawal of beta - blockers and were closely related to plasma levels of propranolol .
The primary verapamil / beta - blocker interaction in this study appeared to be hemodynamic rather than electrophysiologic .
In other studies , verapamil did not generally induce significant negative inotropic , chronotropic , or dromotropic effects in patients with preserved left ventricular function receiving low or moderate doses of propranolol ( less than or equal to 320 mg / day ) ; in some patients , however , combined therapy did produce such effects .
Therefore , if combined therapy is used , close surveillance of clinical status should be carried out .
Combined therapy should usually be avoided in patients with atrioventricular conduction abnormalities and those with depressed left ventricular function .
Asymptomatic bradycardia ( 36 beats / min ) with a wandering atrial pacemaker has been observed in a patient receiving concomitant timolol ( a beta - adrenergic blocker ) eyedrops and oral verapamil .
A decrease in metoprolol and propranolol clearance has been observed when either drug is administered concomitantly with verapamil .
A variable effect has been seen when verapamil and atenolol were given together .
Digitalis : Clinical use of verapamil in digitalized patients has shown the combination to be well tolerated if digoxin doses are properly adjusted .
However , chronic verapamil treatment can increase serum digoxin levels by 50 % to 75 % during the first week of therapy , and this can result in digitalis toxicity .
In patients with hepatic cirrhosis , the influence of verapamil on digoxin kinetics is magnified .
Verapamil may reduce total body clearance and extrarenal clearance of digitoxin by 27 % and 29 % , respectively .
Maintenance and digitalization doses should be reduced when verapamil is administered , and the patient should be reassessed to avoid over - or under - digitalization .
Whenever over - digitalization is suspected , the daily dose of digitalis should be reduced or temporarily discontinued .
On discontinuation of verapamil hydrochloride use , the patient should be reassessed to avoid under - digitalization .
Antihypertensive agents : Verapamil administered concomitantly with oral antihypertensive agents ( e . g . , vasodilators , angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , diuretics , beta - blockers ) will usually have an additive effect on lowering blood pressure .
Patients receiving these combinations should be appropriately monitored .
Concomitant use of agents that attenuate alpha - adrenergic function with verapamil may result in a reduction in blood pressure that is excessive in some patients .
Such an effect was observed in one study following the concomitant administration of verapamil and prazosin .
Antiarrhythmic agents : Disopyramide : Until data on possible interactions between verapamil and disopyramide are obtained , disopyramide should not be administered within 48 hours before or 24 hours after verapamil administration .
Flecainide : A study in healthy volunteers showed that the concomitant administration of flecainide and verapamil may have additive effects on myocardial contractility , AV conduction , and repolarization .
Concomitant therapy with flecainide and verapamil may result in additive negative inotropic effect and prolongation of atrioventricular conduction .
Quinidine : In a small number of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , concomitant use of verapamil and quinidine resulted in significant hypotension .
Until further data are obtained , combined therapy of verapamil and quinidine in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should probably be avoided .
The electrophysiologic effects of quinidine and verapamil on AV conduction were studied in 8 patients .
Verapamil significantly counteracted the effects of quinidine on AV conduction .
There has been a report of increased quinidine levels during verapamil therapy .
Other agents : Nitrates : Verapamil has been given concomitantly with short - and long - acting nitrates without any undesirable drug interactions .
The pharmacologic profile of both drugs and the clinical experience suggest beneficial interactions .
Cimetidine : The interaction between cimetidine and chronically administered verapamil has not been studied .
Variable results on clearance have been obtained in acute studies of healthy volunteers ; clearance of verapamil was either reduced or unchanged .
Lithium : Increased sensitivity to the effects of lithium ( neurotoxicity ) has been reported during concomitant verapamil - lithium therapy ; lithium levels have been observed sometimes to increase , sometimes to decrease , and sometimes to be unchanged .
Patients receiving both drugs must be monitored carefully .
Carbamazepine : Verapamil therapy may increase carbamazepine concentrations during combined therapy .
This may produce carbamazepine side effects such as diplopia , headache , ataxia , or dizziness .
Rifampin : Therapy with rifampin may markedly reduce oral verapamil bioavailability .
Phenobarbital : Phenobarbital therapy may increase verapamil clearance .
Cyclosporine : Verapamil therapy may increase serum levels of cyclosporine .
Theophylline : Verapamil may inhibit the clearance and increase the plasma levels of theophylline .
Inhalation anesthetics : Animal experiments have shown that inhalation anesthetics depress cardiovascular activity by decreasing the inward movement of calcium ions .
When used concomitantly , inhalation anesthetics and calcium antagonists , such as verapamil , should each be titrated carefully to avoid excessive cardiovascular depression .
Neuromuscular blocking agents : Clinical data and animal studies suggest that verapamil may potentiate the activity of neuromuscular blocking agents ( curare - like and depolarizing ) .
It may be necessary to decrease the dose of verapamil and / or the dose of the neuromuscular blocking agent when the drugs are used concomitantly .
Telithromycin : Hypotension and bradyarrhythmias have been observed in patients receiving concurrent telithromycin , an antibiotic in the ketolide class .
Clonidine : Sinus bradycardia resulting in hospitalization and pacemaker insertion has been reported in association with the use of clonidine concurrently with verapamil .
Monitor heart rate in patients receiving concomitant verapamil and clonidine .
Mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) inhibitors : In a study of 25 healthy volunteers with co - administration of verapamil with sirolimus , whole blood sirolimus C max and AUC were increased 130 % and 120 % , respectively .
Plasma S - ( - ) verapamil C max and AUC were both increased 50 % .
Co - administration of verapamil with everolimus in 16 healthy volunteers increased the C max and AUC of everolimus by 130 % and 250 % , respectively .
With concomitant use of mTOR inhibitors ( e . g . , sirolimus , temsirolimus , and everolimus ) and verapamil , consider appropriate dose reductions of both medications .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility An 18 - month toxicity study in rats , at a low multiple ( 6 - fold ) of the maximum recommended human dose , and not the maximum tolerated dose , did not suggest a tumorigenic potential .
There was no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of verapamil administered in the diet of rats for two years at doses of 10 , 35 , and 120 mg / kg / day or approximately 1 , 3 . 5 , and 12 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human daily dose ( 480 mg / day or 9 . 6 mg / kg / day ) .
Verapamil was not mutagenic in the Ames test in 5 test strains at 3 mg per plate with or without metabolic activation .
Studies in female rats at daily dietary doses up to 5 . 5 times ( 55 mg / kg / day ) the maximum recommended human dose did not show impaired fertility .
Effects on male fertility have not been determined .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at oral doses up to 1 . 5 ( 15 mg / kg / day ) and 6 ( 60 mg / kg / day ) times the human oral daily dose , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
In the rat , however , this multiple of the human dose was embryocidal and retarded fetal growth and development , probably because of adverse maternal effects reflected in reduced weight gains of the dams .
This oral dose has also been shown to cause hypotension in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Verapamil crosses the placental barrier and can be detected in umbilical vein blood at delivery .
Labor and Delivery It is not known whether the use of verapamil during labor or delivery has immediate or delayed adverse effects on the fetus , or whether it prolongs the duration of labor or increases the need for forceps delivery or other obstetric intervention .
Such adverse experiences have not been reported in the literature , despite a long history of use of verapamil in Europe in the treatment of cardiac side effects of beta - adrenergic agonist agents used to treat premature labor .
Nursing Mothers Verapamil is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from verapamil , nursing should be discontinued while verapamil is administered .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY & OR TOXICOLOGY In chronic animal toxicology studies , verapamil caused lenticular and / or suture line changes at 30 mg / kg / day or greater , and frank cataracts at 62 . 5 mg / kg / day or greater in the beagle dog but not in the rat .
Development of cataracts due to verapamil has not been reported in man .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions are uncommon when verapamil hydrochloride therapy is initiated with upward dose titration within the recommended single and total daily dose .
See WARNINGS for discussion of heart failure , hypotension , elevated liver enzymes , AV block , and rapid ventricular response .
Reversible ( upon discontinuation of verapamil ) non - obstructive , paralytic ileus has been infrequently reported in association with the use of verapamil .
The following reactions to orally administered verapamil occurred at rates greater than 1 . 0 % or occurred at lower rates but appeared clearly drug - related in clinical trials in 4 , 954 patients : Constipation 7 . 30 % Dyspnea 1 . 40 % Dizziness 3 . 30 % Bradycardia ( HR < 50 / min ) 1 . 40 % Nausea 2 . 70 % AV block total ( 1 ° , 2 ° , 3 ° ) 1 . 20 % Hypotension 2 . 50 % 2 ° and 3 ° 0 . 80 % Headache 2 . 20 % Rash 1 . 20 % Edema 1 . 90 % Flushing 0 . 60 % CHF , Pulmonary edema 1 . 80 % Fatigue 1 . 70 % Elevated liver enzymes ( see WARNINGS ) In clinical trials related to the control of ventricular response in digitalized patients who had atrial fibrillation or flutter , ventricular rates below 50 at rest occurred in 15 % of patients and asymptomatic hypotension occurred in 5 % of patients .
The following reactions , reported in 1 . 0 % or less of patients , occurred under conditions ( open trials , marketing experience ) where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : angina pectoris , atrioventricular dissociation , chest pain , claudication , myocardial infarction , palpitations , purpura ( vasculitis ) , syncope .
Digestive system : diarrhea , dry mouth , gastrointestinal distress , gingival hyperplasia .
Hemic and lymphatic : ecchymosis or bruising .
Nervous system : cerebrovascular accident , confusion , equilibrium disorders , insomnia , muscle cramps , paresthesia , psychotic symptoms , shakiness , somnolence , extrapyramidal symptoms .
Skin : arthralgia and rash , exanthema , hair loss , hyperkeratosis , macules , sweating , urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme .
Special senses : blurred vision , tinnitus .
Urogenital : gynecomastia , galactorrhea / hyperprolactinemia , increased urination , spotty menstruation , impotence .
Treatment of acute cardiovascular adverse reactions : The frequency of cardiovascular adverse reactions that require therapy is rare ; hence , experience with their treatment is limited .
Whenever severe hypotension or complete AV block occurs following oral administration of verapamil , the appropriate emergency measures should be applied immediately ; e . g . , intravenously administered norepinephrine bitartrate , atropine sulfate , isoproterenol HCl ( all in the usual doses ) , or calcium gluconate ( 10 % solution ) .
In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( IHSS ) , alphaadrenergic agents ( phenylephrine HCl , metaraminol bitartrate , or methoxamine HCl ) should be used to maintain blood pressure , and isoproterenol and norepinephrine should be avoided .
If further support is necessary , dopamine HCl or dobutamine HCl may be administered .
Actual treatment and dosage should depend on the severity of the clinical situation and the judgment and experience of the treating physician .
OVERDOSAGE Treat all verapamil overdoses as serious and maintain observation for at least 48 hours ( especially Verapamil Hydrochloride Tablets SR ) , preferably under continuous hospital care .
Delayed pharmacodynamic consequences may occur with the sustained - release formulation .
Verapamil is known to decrease gastrointestinal transit time .
Treatment of overdosage should be supportive .
Beta - adrenergic stimulation or parenteral administration of calcium solutions may increase calcium ion flux across the slow channel and have been used effectively in treatment of deliberate overdosage with verapamil .
In a few reported cases , overdose with calcium channel blockers has been associated with hypotension and bradycardia , initially refractory to atropine but becoming more responsive to this treatment when the patients received large doses ( close to 1 gram / hour for more than 24 hours ) of calcium chloride .
Verapamil cannot be removed by hemodialysis .
Clinically significant hypotensive reactions or high degree AV block should be treated with vasopressor agents or cardiac pacing , respectively .
Asystole should be handled by the usual measures including cardiopulmonary resuscitation .
HOW SUPPLIED Verapamil Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 120 mg tablets are round , standard concave , white film - coated , scored , debossed HP above and 27 below on one side and plain on the reverse side , supplied as : NDC 68071 - 4635 - 9 BOTTLES OF 90 Verapamil Hydrochloride Tablets , USP 40 mg tablets are round , white film - coated , debossed " HP59 " on one side and plain on the reverse side , supplied as : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP controlled room temperature ] and protect from light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container using a child - resistant closure .
MANUFACTURED FOR : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 51U000000259US04 Issued : 06 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose of verapamil must be individualized by titration .
The usefulness and safety of dosages exceeding 480 mg / day have not been established ; therefore , this daily dosage should not be exceeded .
Since the half - life of verapamil increases during chronic dosing , maximum response may be delayed .
Angina : Clinical trials show that the usual dose is 80 mg to 120 mg three times a day .
However , 40 mg three times a day may be warranted in patients who may have an increased response to verapamil ( e . g . , decreased hepatic function , elderly , etc ) .
Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety evaluated approximately eight hours after dosing .
Dosage may be increased at daily ( e . g . , patients with unstable angina ) or weekly intervals until optimum clinical response is obtained .
Arrhythmias : The dosage in digitalized patients with chronic atrial fibrillation ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ranges from 240 to 320 mg / day in divided ( t . i . d . or q . i . d . ) doses .
The dosage for prophylaxis of PSVT ( non - digitalized patients ) ranges from 240 to 480 mg / day in divided ( t . i . d . or q . i . d . ) doses .
In general , maximum effects for any given dosage will be apparent during the first 48 hours of therapy .
Essential hypertension : Dose should be individualized by titration .
The usual initial monotherapy dose in clinical trials was 80 mg three times a day ( 240 mg / day ) .
Daily dosages of 360 and 480 mg have been used but there is no evidence that dosages beyond 360 mg provided added effect .
Consideration should be given to beginning titration at 40 mg three times per day in patients who might respond to lower doses , such as the elderly or people of small stature .
The antihypertensive effects of verapamil hydrochloride are evident within the first week of therapy .
Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy , assessed at the end of the dosing interval .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
