Drug Facts Active ingredient Oxymetazoline hydrochloride 0 . 05 % Purpose Nasal decongestant Uses • for the temporary relief of nasal congestion due to the common cold , hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies • temporarily relieves sinus congestion and pressure • shrinks swollen membranes so you can breathe more freely Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to enlarged prostate gland When using this product • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 3 days .
Use only as directed .
• temporary discomfort such as burning , stinging , sneezing , or an increase in nasal discharge may occur • the use of this container by more than one person may spread infection • frequent or prolonged use may cause nasal congestion to recur or worsen Stop use and ask doctor if symptoms persist .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 6 to under 12 years of age ( with adult supervision ) : 2 or 3 sprays in each nostril not more often than every 10 to 12 hours • do not exceed 2 doses within any 24 - hour period • children under 6 years of age : consult a doctor Before using the first time , remove the protective cap from the tip .
To spray , hold bottle between the thumb and first and second fingers .
Without tilting head , insert nozzle into nostril .
Squeeze the bottle quickly and firmly .
Wipe nozzle clean after use .
Other information • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , benzyl alcohol , dibasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid , monobasic sodium phosphate , polyethylene glycol 1450 , povidone , propylene glycol , purified water Questions ?
To Report Adverse Drug Event Call : ( 800 ) 616 - 2471 Distributed by : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS 17177 N Laurel Park Drive , Suite 233 Livonia , Ml 48152 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
