Medication Guide for Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAIDs can cause serious side effects , including : · Increased risk of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This risk may happen early in treatment and may increase : · with increasing doses of NSAIDs · with longer use of NSAIDs Do not take NSAIDs right before or after a heart surgery called a “ coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . "
Avoid taking NSAIDs after a recent heart attack , unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
You may have an increased risk of another heart attack if you take NSAIDs after a recent heart attack .
· Increased risk of bleeding , ulcers , and tears ( perforation ) of the esophagus ( tube leading from the mouth to the stomach ) , stomach and intestines : · anytime during use · without warning symptoms · that may cause death The risk of getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : · past history of stomach ulcers , or stomach or intestinal bleeding with use of NSAIDs · taking medicines called “ corticosteroids ” , “ anticoagulants ” , “ SSRIs ” , or “ SNRIs ” · increasing doses of NSAIDs · longer use of NSAIDs · smoking · drinking alcohol · older age · poor health · advanced liver disease · bleeding problems NSAIDs should only be used : · exactly as prescribed · at the lowest dose possible for your treatment · for the shortest time needed What are NSAIDs ?
NSAIDs are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as different types of arthritis , menstrual cramps , and other types of short - term pain .
Who should not take NSAIDs ?
Do not take NSAIDs : · if you have had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAIDs .
· right before or after heart bypass surgery .
Before taking NSAIDS , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : · have liver or kidney problems · have high blood pressure · have asthma · are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are considering taking NSAIDs during pregnancy .
You should not take NSAIDs after 29 weeks of pregnancy .
· are breastfeeding or plan to breast feed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins or herbal supplements .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Do not start taking any new medicine without talking to your healthcare provider first .
What are the possible side effects of NSAIDs ?
NSAIDs can cause serious side effects , including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
· new or worse high blood pressure · heart failure · liver problems including liver failure · kidney problems including kidney failure · low red blood cells ( anemia ) · life - threatening skin reactions · life threatening allergic reactions · Other side effects of NSAIDs include : stomach pain , constipation , diarrhea , gas , heartburn , nausea , vomiting , and dizziness .
Get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms : · shortness of breath or trouble breathing · chest pain · weakness in one part or side of your body · slurred speech · swelling of the face or throat Stop taking your NSAID and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms : · nausea · more tired or weaker than usual · diarrhea · itching · your skin or eyes look yellow · indigestion or stomach pain · flu - like symptoms · vomit blood · there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar · unusual weight gain · skin rash or blisters with fever · swelling of the arms , legs , hands and feet If you take too much of your NSAID , call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away .
These are not all the possible side effects of NSAIDs .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist about NSAIDs .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Other information about NSAIDs · Aspirin is an NSAID but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
· Some NSAIDs are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
General information about the safe and effective use of NSAIDs Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use NSAIDs for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NSAIDs to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
If you would like more information about NSAIDs , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about NSAIDs that is written for health professionals .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Granules India Limited Hyderabad - 500 081 , India MADE IN INDIA Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Toll - Free No . : 1 - 877 - 272 - 7901 Issued : October 2016 For more information , please call to 1 - 877 - 770 - 3183 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
