1 . 1 Treatment of Active Duodenal Ulcer Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for short - term treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults .
Most patients heal within four weeks .
Some patients may require an additional four weeks of therapy .
1 . 2 Helicobacter pylori Eradication to Reduce the Risk of Duodenal Ulcer Recurrence Eradication of H . pylori has been shown to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer recurrence .
Triple Therapy Omeprazole delayed - release capsules in combination with clarithromycin and amoxicillin , are indicated for treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease ( active or up to 1 - year history ) to eradicate H . pylori in adults .
Dual Therapy Omeprazole delayed - release capsules in combination with clarithromycin are indicated for treatment of patients with H . pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease to eradicate H . pylori in adults .
Among patients who fail therapy , omeprazole delayed - release capsules are with clarithromycin is more likely to be associated with the development of clarithromycin resistance as compared with triple therapy .
In patients who fail therapy , susceptibility testing should be done .
If resistance to clarithromycin is demonstrated or susceptibility testing is not possible , alternative antimicrobial therapy should be instituted [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) and the clarithromycin prescribing information , Microbiology section ] .
1 . 3 Treatment of Active Benign Gastric Ulcer Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for short - term treatment ( 4 to 8 weeks ) of active benign gastric ulcer in adults .
1 . 4 Treatment of Symptomatic Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for the treatment of heartburn and other symptoms associated with GERD for up to 4 weeks in patients 2 years of age and older .
1 . 5 Treatment of Erosive Esophagitis ( EE ) Due to Acid - Mediated GERD Pediatric Patients 2 Years of Age to Adults Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for the short - term treatment ( 4 to 8 weeks ) of EE due to acid - mediated GERD that has been diagnosed by endoscopy in patients 2 years of age and older .
The efficacy of omeprazole delayed - release capsules used for longer than 8 weeks in patients with EE has not been established .
If a patient does not respond to 8 weeks of treatment , an additional 4 weeks of treatment may be given .
If there is recurrence of EE or GERD symptoms ( e . g . , heartburn ) , additional 4 to 8 week courses of omeprazole delayed - release capsules may be considered .
1 . 6 Maintenance of Healing of EE Due to Acid - Mediated GERD Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for the maintenance healing of EE due to acid - mediated GERD in patients 2 years of age and older .
Controlled studies do not extend beyond 12 months .
1 . 7 Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions Omeprazole delayed - release capsules are indicated for the long - term treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison syndrome , multiple endocrine adenomas and systemic mastocytosis ) in adults .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
