Active Ingredients : Octocrylene 10 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Avobenzone 3 % Purpose : Sunscreen Inactive Ingredients : Aqua , Dibutyl Adipate , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Dicaprylyl Ether , PEG - 30 Dipolyhydroxystearate , Lauryl PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Methicone , Isopropyl Myristate , Stearyl Dimethicone , Cetyl dimethicone , Propylene Glycol , VP / Hexadecene Copolymer , Panthenol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Lanthanum Chloride , Magnesium Chloride , Calcium Chloride , Plankton Extract , Glycoproteins , Glycosaminoglycans , Parfum , Chlorphenisin .
Uses : ■ Helps prevent sunburn ■ If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warning : ■ For external use only ■ Do not use on damaged or broken skin ■ When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove ■ Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Directions : ■ Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating , immediately after towel drying and at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures - Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . to 2 p . m . ■ Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ■ Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Information : ■ Give particular attention to coverage of arms and legs .
■ In water infested by Sea Lice , Safe Sea should also be applied under the bathing suit .
■ Jellyfish can be dangerous .
This product should not be considered a recommendation to go into jellyfish infested water , nor is it a guarantee against stings .
■ In case of sting do not use Safe Sea as a treatment - seek medical attention .
* Tested against Sea nettle ( Chrysaora ) , Atlantic Box jellyfish ( Chiropsalmus ) & Rhopilema .
Data on file .
■ Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Product label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
