This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 0 . 5 % v / v ) .
• Aloe Vera Leaf ( 0 . 1 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antibacterial Purpose Antibacterial , Papilion Hygienic Disinfactant Antibacterial Sprey Uses Use disinfectant spray to help reduce bacteria on the skin that could cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
When using this product do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness devolops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together until dry .
• Children under 6 years should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store below 106 F ( 41 C ) .
• May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Aloe Barbadensis Extract .
120 ml NDC : 79262 - 160 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - Principal Display Panel 120 mL NDC : 79262 - 160 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
