Active ingredients Light mineral oil ( 1 . 0 % ) Mineral oil ( 4 . 5 % ) Purpose Emollient Emollient Uses • • temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • • temporary relief of discomfort due to minor irritations of the eye or to exposure to wind or sun • • as a protectant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye Warnings For external use only Do not use • • if solution changes color • • if single - unit dispenser is not intact When using this product • • do not touch the tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • once opened , discard • • do not reuse Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye , or if condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • remove contact lenses before use • • shake well before using • • to open , completely twist off tab • • instill 1 to 2 drop ( s ) in the affected eye ( s ) as needed or as directed by your doctor Other information • • temporarily blurred vision is typical upon application • • drops appear as a milky white solution • • store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients boric acid , edetate disodium , octoxynol - 40 , polysorbate 80 , purified water , sodium borate decahydrate .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) .
Questions ?
Call : 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 Marketed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Patented .
See https : / / patents . bausch . com ® / TM are trademarks of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates Order No . 622238 Product of France 3827804 SootheEyeDrops . com Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] BAUSCH + LOMB Soothe ® XP Emollient ( Lubricant ) Eye Drops XTRA PROTECTION Preservative Free Advanced Dry Eye Therapy With Restoryl ® mineral oils that : • Restore • Seal • Protect 30 Single - Use Vials 0 . 01 FL OZ EA ( 0 . 3 mL EA ) Sterile [ MULTIMEDIA ]
