DRUG FACTS : Active Ingredients : Hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses : • Temporary relief of skin itching .
• The temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes .
• Other uses of this product should be only under the advise and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings : For external use only .
Do not use for • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
• In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly .
• Do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days and do not begin use of any other hydrocorstisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : Do not use , consult a doctor .
Adults : When practical , cleanse the affected area " ( selected one or both of the following : with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly " .
or " by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing pad " ) .
: Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other Information : Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients : Aloe barbadensis ( aloe vera gel ) juice , aqua ( deionized water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , camellia sinensis ( green tea ) leaf extract , ceteareth - 20 , cetearyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , ethylhexylglycerin , glycerin , glyceryl stearate , hamamelis virginiana ( witch hazel ) extract , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , PEG - 100 stearate , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , stearyl alcohol , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , zemea propanediol .
Questions ?
visit : skin - a - cool .
com Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
