Rx only DESCRIPTION AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) is 6 - aminohexanoic acid , which acts as an inhibitor of fibrinolysis .
Its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] AMICAR is soluble in water , acid , and alkaline solutions ; it is sparingly soluble in methanol and practically insoluble in chloroform .
AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Oral Solution for oral administration , contains 0 . 25 g / mL of aminocaproic acid with methylparaben 0 . 20 % , propylparaben 0 . 05 % , edetate disodium 0 . 30 % as preservatives and the following inactive ingredients : sodium saccharin , sorbitol solution , citric acid anhydrous , natural and artificial raspberry flavor and an artificial bitterness modifier .
Each AMICAR ( aminocaproic acid ) Tablet , for oral administration contains 500 mg or 1000 mg of aminocaproic acid and the following inactive ingredients : povidone , crospovidone , stearic acid , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The fibrinolysis - inhibitory effects of AMICAR appear to be exerted principally via inhibition of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree through antiplasmin activity .
In adults , oral absorption appears to be a zero - order process with an absorption rate of 5 . 2 g / hr .
The mean lag time in absorption is 10 minutes .
After a single oral dose of 5 g , absorption was complete ( F = 1 ) .
Mean ± SD peak plasma concentrations ( 164 ± 28 mcg / mL ) were reached within 1 . 2 ± 0 . 45 hours .
After oral administration , the apparent volume of distribution was estimated to be 23 . 1 ± 6 . 6 L ( mean ± SD ) .
Correspondingly , the volume of distribution after intravenous administration has been reported to be 30 . 0 ± 8 . 2 L .
After prolonged administration , AMICAR has been found to distribute throughout extravascular and intravascular compartments of the body , penetrating human red blood cells as well as other tissue cells .
Renal excretion is the primary route of elimination .
Sixty - five percent of the dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug and 11 % of the dose appears as the metabolite adipic acid .
Renal clearance ( 116 mL / min ) approximates endogenous creatinine clearance .
The total body clearance is 169 mL / min .
The terminal elimination half - life for AMICAR is approximately 2 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE AMICAR is useful in enhancing hemostasis when fibrinolysis contributes to bleeding .
In life - threatening situations , transfusion of appropriate blood products and other emergency measures may be required .
Fibrinolytic bleeding may frequently be associated with surgical complications following heart surgery ( with or without cardiac bypass procedures ) and portacaval shunt ; hematological disorders such as amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia ( accompanying aplastic anemia ) ; acute and life - threatening abruptio placentae ; hepatic cirrhosis ; and neoplastic disease such as carcinoma of the prostate , lung , stomach , and cervix .
Urinary fibrinolysis , usually a normal physiological phenomenon , may contribute to excessive urinary tract fibrinolytic bleeding associated with surgical hematuria ( following prostatectomy and nephrectomy ) or nonsurgical hematuria ( accompanying polycystic or neoplastic diseases of the genitourinary system ) .
( See WARNINGS . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS AMICAR should not be used when there is evidence of an active intravascular clotting process .
When there is uncertainty as to whether the cause of bleeding is primary fibrinolysis or disseminated intravascular coagulation ( DIC ) , this distinction must be made before administering AMICAR .
The following tests can be applied to differentiate the two conditions : Platelet count is usually decreased in DIC but normal in primary fibrinolysis .
Protamine paracoagulation test is positive in DIC ; a precipitate forms when protamine sulfate is dropped into citrated plasma .
The test is negative in the presence of primary fibrinolysis .
The euglobulin clot lysis test is abnormal in primary fibrinolysis but normal in DIC .
AMICAR must not be used in the presence of DIC without concomitant heparin .
WARNINGS In patients with upper urinary tract bleeding , AMICAR administration has been known to cause intrarenal obstruction in the form of glomerular capillary thrombosis or clots in the renal pelvis and ureters .
For this reason , AMICAR should not be used in hematuria of upper urinary tract origin , unless the possible benefits outweigh the risk .
Subendocardial hemorrhages have been observed in dogs given intravenous infusions of 0 . 2 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of AMICAR and in monkeys given 8 times the maximum human therapeutic dose of AMICAR .
Fatty degeneration of the myocardium has been reported in dogs given intravenous doses of AMICAR at 0 . 8 to 3 . 3 times the maximum human therapeutic dose and in monkeys given intravenous doses of AMICAR at 6 times the maximum human therapeutic dose .
Rarely , skeletal muscle weakness with necrosis of muscle fibers has been reported following prolonged administration .
Clinical presentation may range from mild myalgias with weakness and fatigue to a severe proximal myopathy with rhabdomyolysis , myoglobinuria , and acute renal failure .
Muscle enzymes , especially creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) are elevated .
CPK levels should be monitored in patients on long - term therapy .
AMICAR administration should be stopped if a rise in CPK is noted .
Resolution follows discontinuation of AMICAR ; however , the syndrome may recur if AMICAR is restarted .
The possibility of cardiac muscle damage should also be considered when skeletal myopathy occurs .
One case of cardiac and hepatic lesions observed in man has been reported .
The patient received 2 g of aminocaproic acid every 6 hours for a total dose of 26 g . Death was due to continued cerebrovascular hemorrhage .
Necrotic changes in the heart and liver were noted at autopsy .
PRECAUTIONS General AMICAR inhibits both the action of plasminogen activators and to a lesser degree , plasmin activity .
The drug should NOT be administered without a definite diagnosis and / or laboratory finding indicative of hyperfibrinolysis ( hyperplasminemia ) . 1 Inhibition of fibrinolysis by aminocaproic acid may theoretically result in clotting or thrombosis .
However , there is no definite evidence that administration of aminocaproic acid has been responsible for the few reported cases of intravascular clotting which followed this treatment .
Rather , it appears that such intravascular clotting was most likely due to the patient ' s preexisting clinical condition , e . g . , the presence of DIC .
It has been postulated that extravascular clots formed in vivo may not undergo spontaneous lysis as do normal clots .
Reports have appeared in the literature of an increased incidence of certain neurological deficits such as hydrocephalus , cerebral ischemia , or cerebral vasospasm associated with the use of antifibrinolytic agents in the treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) .
All of these events have also been described as part of the natural course of SAH , or as a consequence of diagnostic procedures such as angiography .
Drug relatedness remains unclear .
Aminocaproic acid should not be administered with Factor IX Complex concentrates or Anti - Inhibitor Coagulant concentrates , as the risk of thrombosis may be increased .
Laboratory Tests The use of AMICAR should be accompanied by tests designed to determine the amount of fibrinolysis present .
There are presently available : ( a ) general tests such as those for the determination of the lysis of a clot of blood or plasma ; and ( b ) more specific tests for the study of various phases of the fibrinolytic mechanisms .
These latter tests include both semiquantitative and quantitative techniques for the determination of profibrinolysin , fibrinolysin , and antifibrinolysin .
Drug Laboratory Test Interactions Prolongation of the template bleeding time has been reported during continuous intravenous infusion of AMICAR at dosages exceeding 24 g / day .
Platelet function studies in these patients have not demonstrated any significant platelet dysfunction .
However , in vitro studies have shown that at high concentrations ( 7 . 4 mMol / L or 0 . 97 mg / mL and greater ) aminocaproic acid inhibits ADP and collagen - induced platelet aggregation , the release of ATP and serotonin , and the binding of fibrinogen to the platelets in a concentration - response manner .
Following a 10 g bolus of AMICAR , transient peak plasma concentrations of 4 . 6 mMol / L or 0 . 60 mg / mL have been obtained .
The concentration of AMICAR necessary to maintain inhibition of fibrinolysis is 0 . 99 mMol / L or 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Administration of a 5 g bolus followed by 1 to 1 . 25 g / hr should achieve and sustain plasma levels of 0 . 13 mg / mL .
Thus , concentrations which have been obtained in vivo clinically in patients with normal renal function are considerably lower than the in vitro concentrations found to induce abnormalities in platelet function tests .
However , higher plasma concentrations of AMICAR may occur in patients with severe renal failure .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of AMICAR and studies to evaluate its mutagenic potential have not been conducted .
Dietary administration of an equivalent of the maximum human therapeutic dose of AMICAR to rats of both sexes impaired fertility as evidenced by decreased implantations , litter sizes and number of pups born .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with AMICAR .
It is also not known whether AMICAR can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
AMICAR should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when AMICAR is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS AMICAR is generally well tolerated .
The following adverse experiences have been reported : General : Edema , headache , malaise .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions , anaphylaxis .
Cardiovascular : Bradycardia , hypotension , peripheral ischemia , thrombosis .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , coagulation disorder , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Musculoskeletal : CPK increased , muscle weakness , myalgia , myopathy ( see WARNINGS ) , myositis , rhabdomyolysis .
Neurologic : Confusion , convulsions , delirium , dizziness , hallucinations , intracranial hypertension , stroke , syncope .
Respiratory : Dyspnea , nasal congestion , pulmonary embolism .
Skin : Pruritis , rash .
Special Senses : Tinnitus , vision decreased , watery eyes .
Urogenital : BUN increased , renal failure .
There have been some reports of dry ejaculation during the period of AMICAR treatment .
These have been reported to date only in hemophilia patients who received the drug after undergoing dental surgical procedures .
However , this symptom resolved in all patients within 24 to 48 hours of completion of therapy .
OVERDOSAGE A few cases of acute overdosage with AMICAR administered intravenously have been reported .
The effects have ranged from no reaction to transient hypotension to severe acute renal failure leading to death .
One patient with a history of brain tumor and seizures experienced seizures after receiving an 8 gram bolus injection of AMICAR .
The single dose of AMICAR causing symptoms of overdosage or considered to be life - threatening is unknown .
Patients have tolerated doses as high as 100 grams while acute renal failure has been reported following a dose of 12 grams .
The intravenous and oral LD50 of AMICAR were 3 . 0 and 12 . 0 g / kg , respectively , in the mouse and 3 . 2 and 16 . 4 g / kg , respectively , in the rat .
An intravenous infusion dose of 2 . 3 g / kg was lethal in the dog .
On intravenous administration , tonic - clonic convulsions were observed in dogs and mice .
No treatment for overdosage is known , although evidence exists that AMICAR is removed by hemodialysis and may be removed by peritoneal dialysis .
Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that total body clearance of AMICAR is markedly decreased in patients with severe renal failure .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION An identical dosage regimen may be followed by administering AMICAR Tablets or AMICAR Oral Solution as follows : For the treatment of acute bleeding syndromes due to elevated fibrinolytic activity , it is suggested that 5 AMICAR 1000 mg Tablets or 10 AMICAR 500 mg Tablets ( 5 g ) or 20 milliliter of AMICAR Oral Solution ( 5 g ) be administered during the first hour of treatment , followed by a continuing rate of 1 AMICAR 1000 mg Tablet or 2 AMICAR 500 mg Tablets ( 1 g ) or 5 milliliter of AMICAR Oral Solution ( 1 . 25 g ) per hour .
This method of treatment would ordinarily be continued for about 8 hours or until the bleeding situation has been controlled .
HOW SUPPLIED AMICAR ® ( aminocaproic acid ) AMICAR Oral Solution , 0 . 25 g / mL Each mL of raspberry - flavored oral solution contains 0 . 25 g / mL of aminocaproic acid .
8 Fl .
Oz .
( 236 . 5 mL ) Bottle – NDC 49411 - 052 - 08 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; Dispense in Tight Containers ; Do Not Freeze .
AMICAR 500 mg Tablets Each round , white tablet , engraved with XP on one side and scored on the other with A to the left of the score and 10 on the right , contains 500 mg of aminocaproic acid .
Bottle of 30 – NDC 49411 - 050 - 30 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; Dispense in Tight Containers ; Do Not Freeze .
AMICAR 1000 mg Tablets Each oblong , white tablet , engraved with XP on one side and scored on the other with A to the left of the score and 20 on the right , contains 1000 mg of aminocaproic acid .
Bottle of 30 – NDC 49411 - 051 - 30 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; Dispense in Tight Containers ; Do Not Freeze .
REFERENCE 1 Stefanini M , Dameshek W : The Hemorrhagic Disorders , Ed .
2 , New York , Grune and Stratton ; 1962 : 510 - 514 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Akorn Operating Company LLC Gurnee , IL 60031 Manufactured by : Mikart , LLC Atlanta , GA 30318 Code 909B00 Rev . 03 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bottle Label – 8 Fl .
Oz .
( 236 . 5 mL ) NDC 49411 - 052 - 08 AMICAR ® Aminocaproic Acid Oral Solution 0 . 25 grams / mL Rx only 8 Fl .
Oz .
( 236 . 5 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bottle Label – 500 mg NDC 49411 - 050 - 30 500 mg AMICAR ® Aminocaproic Acid Tablets Rx Only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bottle Label – 1000 mg NDC 49411 - 051 - 30 1000 mg AMICAR ® Aminocaproic Acid Tablets Rx Only 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
