active information Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 2 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) .
decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , cetearyl alcohol , glycerin , dimethicone , Glycine soja ( soybean ) seed extract , bis - phenylpropyl dimethicone , arachidyl alcohol , cetearyl glucoside , benzyl alcohol , panthenol , ethylene / acrylic acid copolymer , behenyl alcohol , steareth - 2 , fragrance , steareth - 21 , polymethyl methacrylate , polyacrylamide , arachidyl glucoside , disodium EDTA , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , laureth - 7 , silica , chlorphenesin , BHT , titanium dioxide , mica Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson , Distributor of Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Moisturizer SPF 15 Adverse Reactions Section Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , LLC St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Aveeno oil free with soy based complex helps even out skin tone & texture SPF 15 absolutely beaming daily moisturizer broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen absolutely beaming daily moisturizer broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
