Juvenile idiopathic arthritis Relief of the signs and symptoms of pauciarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients 2 years and older ( suspension ) and in pediatric patients weighing at least 60 kg ( orally - disintegrating tablet ) .
Osteoarthritis Relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis ( OA ) ; management of OA pain .
Rheumatoid arthritis ( orally - disintegrating tablet , tablet , and suspension only ) Relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis .
Medication Guide for Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAIDs can cause serious side effects , including : • Increased risk of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This risk may happen early in treatment and may increase : o with increasing doses of NSAIDs o with longer use of NSAIDs • Do not take NSAIDs right before or after a heart surgery called a " coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . "
• Avoid taking NSAIDs after a recent heart attack , unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
You may have an increased risk of another heart attack if you take NSAIDs after a recent heart attack .
• Increased risk of bleeding , ulcers , and tears ( perforation ) of the esophagus ( tube leading from the mouth to the stomach ) , stomach and intestines : o anytime during use o without warning symptoms o that may cause death The risk of getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : o past history of stomach ulcers , or stomach or intestinal bleeding with use of NSAIDs o taking medicines called " corticosteroids " , " anticoagulants " , " SSRIs " , or " SNRIs " o increasing doses of NSAIDs o longer use of NSAIDs o smoking o drinking alcohol o older age o poor health o advanced liver disease o bleeding problems NSAIDs should only be used : o exactly as prescribed o at the lowest dose possible for your treatment o for the shortest time needed What are NSAIDs ?
NSAIDs are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as different types of arthritis , menstrual cramps , and other types of short - term pain .
Who should not take NSAIDs ?
Do not take NSAIDs : • if you have had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAIDs .
• right before or after heart bypass surgery .
Before taking NSAIDs , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver or kidney problems • have high blood pressure • have asthma • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are considering taking NSAIDs during pregnancy .
You should not take NSAIDs after 29 weeks of pregnancy .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breast feed .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , including prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins or herbal supplements .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Do not start taking any new medicine without talking to your healthcare provider first .
What are the possible side effects of NSAIDs ?
NSAIDs can cause serious side effects , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Nonsteroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ? "
• new or worse high blood pressure • heart failure • liver problems including liver failure • kidney problems including kidney failure • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • Other side effects of NSAIDs include : stomach pain , constipation , diarrhea , gas , heartburn , nausea , vomiting , and dizziness .
Get emergency help right away if you get any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • chest pain • weakness in one part or side of your body • slurred speech • swelling of the face or throat Stop taking your NSAID and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms : • Nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • diarrhea • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • indigestion or stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms , legs , hands and feet If you take too much of your NSAID , call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away .
These are not all the possible side effects of NSAIDs .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist about NSAIDs .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Other information about NSAIDs : • Aspirin is an NSAID but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some NSAIDs are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
General information about the safe and effective use of NSAIDs Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use NSAIDs for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NSAIDs to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
If you would like more information about NSAIDs , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about NSAIDs that is written for health professionals .
Additional Medication Guides can be obtained by calling Unichem at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4616 .
The other trademarks referenced are owned by third parties not affiliated with Unichem Laboratories Limited Manufactured by : UNICHEM LABORATORIES LTD .
Pilerne Ind .
Estate , Pilerne , Bardez , Goa 403511 , India Manufactured for : East Brunswick , NJ 08816 08 - R - 11 / 2020 13012881 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
