1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Potassium chloride oral solution is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction are insufficient .
Potassium chloride oral solution is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypokalemia with or without metabolic alkalosis , in patients for whom dietary management with potassium - rich foods or diuretic dose reduction are insufficient .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dilute prior to administration .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosage accordingly .
( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) Treatment of hypokalemia : • • Adults : Initial doses range from 40 to 100 mEq / day in 2 to 5 divided doses : limit doses to 40 mEq per dose .
Total daily dose should not exceed 200 mEq ( 2 . 2 ) • • Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : 2 to 4 mEq / kg / day in divided doses ; not to exceed 1 mEq / kg as a single dose or 40 mEq whichever is lower ; if deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great , consider intravenous therapy .
Total daily dose should not exceed 100 mEq ( 2 . 3 ) Maintenance or Prophylaxis of hypokalemia : • • Adults : Typical dose is 20 mEq per day ( 2 . 2 ) • • Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : typical dose is 1 mEq / kg / day .
Do not exceed 3 mEq / kg / day ( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Administration and Monitoring Monitoring Monitor serum potassium and adjust dosages accordingly .
For treatment of hypokalemia , monitor potassium levels daily or more often depending on the severity of hypokalemia until they return to normal .
Monitor potassium levels monthly to biannually for maintenance or prophylaxis .
The treatment of potassium depletion , particularly in the presence of cardiac disease , renal disease , or acidosis requires careful attention to acid - base balance , volume status , electrolytes , including magnesium , sodium , chloride , phosphate , and calcium , electrocardiograms and the clinical status of the patient .
Correct volume status , acid - base balance and electrolyte deficits as appropriate .
Administration Dilute the potassium chloride solution with at least 4 ounces of cold water [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Take with meals or immediately after eating .
If serum potassium concentration is < 2 . 5 mEq / L , use intravenous potassium instead of oral supplementation .
2 . 2 Adult Dosing Treatment of hypokalemia Daily dose range from 40 to 100 mEq .
Give in 2 to 5 divided doses ; limit doses to 40 mEq per dose .
The total daily dose should not exceed 200 mEq in a 24 hour period .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis Typical dose is 20 mEq per day .
Individualize dose based upon serum potassium levels .
Studies support the use of potassium replacement in digitalis toxicity .
When alkalosis is present , normokalemia and hyperkalemia may obscure a total potassium deficit .
The advisability of use of potassium replacement in the setting of hyperkalemia is uncertain .
2 . 3 Pediatric Dosing Treatment of hypokalemia Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : The initial dose is 2 to 4 mEq / kg / day in divided doses ; do not exceed as a single dose 1 mEq / kg or 40 mEq , whichever is lower ; maximum daily doses should not exceed 100 mEq .
If deficits are severe or ongoing losses are great , consider intravenous therapy .
Maintenance or Prophylaxis Pediatric patients aged birth to 16 years old : Typical dose is 1 mEq / kg / day .
Do not exceed 3 mEq / kg / day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral Solution 10 % : 1 . 3 mEq potassium per mL .
Oral Solution 20 % : 2 . 6 mEq potassium per mL .
• • Oral Solution : 10 % ; 1 . 3 mEq potassium per mL ( 3 ) • • Oral Solution : 20 % ; 2 . 6 mEq potassium per mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Potassium chloride is contraindicated in patients on potassium sparing diuretics .
• • Concomitant use with potassium sparing diuretics .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Gastrointestinal Irritation : Dilute before use , take with meals ( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Gastrointestinal Irritation May cause gastrointestinal irritation if administered undiluted .
Increased dilution of the solution and taking with meals may reduce gastrointestinal irritation [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions to oral potassium salts are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
Most common adverse reactions are nausea , vomiting , flatulence , abdominal pain / discomfort , and diarrhea .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Apotex Corp . at 1 - 800 - 706 - 5575 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Potassium sparing diuretics : Avoid concomitant use ( 7 . 1 ) • • Renin - angiotensin - aldosterone inhibitors : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 2 ) • • Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory drugs : Monitor for hyperkalemia ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Potassium - Sparing Diuretics Use with potassium - sparing diuretics can produce severe hyperkalemia .
Avoid concomitant use .
7 . 2 Renin - Angiotensin - Aldoserone System Inhibitors Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) including angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , spironolactone , eplerenone , or aliskiren produce potassium retention by inhibiting aldosterone production .
Closely monitor potassium in patients receiving concomitant RAAS therapy .
7 . 3 Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) NSAIDS may produce potassium retention by reducing renal synthesis of prostaglandin E and impairing the renin - angiotensin system .
Closely monitor potassium in patients on concomitant NSAIDs .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Cirrhosis : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 5 ) Renal Impairment : Initiate therapy at the low end of the dosing range ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There are no human data related to use of Potassium Chloride during pregnancy , and animal studies have not been conducted .
Potassium supplementation that does not lead to hyperkalemia is not expected to cause fetal harm .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The normal potassium ion content of human milk is about 13 mEq per liter .
Since potassium from oral supplements such as Potassium Chloride becomes part of the body potassium pool , as long as body potassium is not excessive , the contribution of potassium chloride supplementation should have little or no effect on the level in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of potassium chloride have been demonstrated in children with diarrhea and malnutrition from birth to 16 years .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of potassium chloride did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Cirrhotics Patients with cirrhosis should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range , and the serum potassium level should be monitored frequently .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment have reduced urinary excretion of potassium and are at substantially increased risk of hyperkalemia .
Patients with impaired renal function , particularly if the patient is on ACE inhibitors , ARBs , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs should usually be started at the low end of the dosing range because of the potential for development of hyperkalemia .
The serum potassium level should be monitored frequently .
Renal function should be assessed periodically .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms The administration of oral potassium salts to persons with normal excretory mechanisms for potassium rarely causes serious hyperkalemia .
However , if excretory mechanisms are impaired or if potassium is administered too rapidly potentially fatal hyperkalemia can result .
Hyperkalemia is usually asymptomatic and may be manifested only by an increased serum potassium concentration ( 6 . 5 to 8 . 0 mEq / L ) and characteristic electrocardiographic changes ( peaking of T - waves , loss of P - waves , depression of S - T segment , and prolongation of the QT - interval ) .
Late manifestations include muscle paralysis and cardiovascular collapse from cardiac arrest ( 9 to12 mEq / L ) .
10 . 2 Treatment Treatment measures for hyperkalemia include the following : 1 .
Monitor closely for arrhythmias and electrolyte changes .
2 .
Eliminate foods and medications containing potassium and of any agents with potassium - sparing properties such as potassium - sparing diuretics , ARBS , ACE inhibitors , NSAIDS , certain nutritional supplements and many others .
3 .
Administer intravenous calcium gluconate if the patient is at no risk or low risk of developing digitalis toxicity .
4 .
Administer intravenously 300 to 500 mL / hr of 10 % dextrose solution containing 10 to 20 units of crystalline insulin per 1000 mL .
5 .
Correct acidosis , if present , with intravenous sodium bicarbonate .
6 .
Use exchange resins , hemodialysis , or peritoneal dialysis .
In patients who have been stabilized on digitalis , too rapid a lowering of the serum potassium concentration can produce digitalis toxicity .
11 DESCRIPTION Potassium chloride , USP is a colorless , elongated , prismatic , or cubical crystals , or white , granular powder .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in alcohol .
Chemically , potassium chloride is K - Cl with a molecular mass of 74 . 55 g / mol .
Oral Solution 10 % : Each 15 mL of solution contains 1 . 5 g of potassium chloride , USP and the following inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , FD & C Yellow # 6 , glycerin , methylparaben , natural orange flavor , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate dihydrate , sucralose .
Oral Solution 20 % : Each 15 mL of solution contains 3 . 0 g of potassium chloride , USP and the following inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , FD & C Yellow # 6 , glycerin , methylparaben , natural orange flavor , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate dihydrate , sucralose .
Natural orange flavor includes fruit extract and natural flavor .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The potassium ion ( K + ) is the principal intracellular cation of most body tissues .
Potassium ions participate in a number of essential physiological processes including the maintenance of intracellular tonicity ; the transmission of nerve impulses ; the contraction of cardiac , skeletal , and smooth muscle ; and the maintenance of normal renal function .
The intracellular concentration of potassium is approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter .
The normal adult plasma concentration is 3 . 5 to 5 mEq per liter .
An active ion transport system maintains this gradient across the plasma membrane .
Potassium is a normal dietary constituent , and under steady - state conditions the amount of potassium absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is equal to the amount excreted in the urine .
The usual dietary intake of potassium is 50 to 100 mEq per day .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Based on published literature , the rate of absorption and urinary excretion of potassium from KCl oral solution were higher during the first few hours after dosing relative to modified release KCl products .
The bioavailability of potassium , as measured by the cumulative urinary excretion of K + over a 24 hour post dose period , is similar for KCl solution and modified release products .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Potassium chloride oral solution , USP is an orange solution available as follows : 10 % : 20 mEq / 15 mL oral solution cup 15 mL cup x 30 cups per case , NDC 0904 - 7061 - 46 15 mL cup x 40 cups per case , NDC 0904 - 7061 - 87 15 mL cup x 50 cups per case , NDC 0904 - 7061 - 51 15 mL cup x 80 cups per case , NDC 0904 - 7061 - 47 15 mL cup x 100 cups per case , NDC 0904 - 7061 - 80 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
PROTECT from LIGHT and FREEZING .
APOTEX INC .
POTASSIUM CHLORIDE ORAL SOLUTION , USP 10 % and 20 % Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 USA 33326 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Revised : May 2020 Rev . 4 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Potassium Chloride Oral Solution USP , 10 % 20 mEq / 15 mL Delivers 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
