[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION DIFFERIN ® Gel , containing adapalene , is used for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
Each gram of DIFFERIN Gel contains adapalene 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) in a vehicle consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid to adjust pH . The chemical name of adapalene is 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid .
Adapalene is a white to off - white powder which is soluble in tetrahydrofuran , sparingly soluble in ethanol , and practically insoluble in water .
The molecular formula is C28H28O3 and molecular weight is 412 . 52 .
Adapalene is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Adapalene is a chemically stable , retinoid - like compound .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization , and inflammatory processes all of which represent important features in the pathology of acne vulgaris .
Mechanistically , adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to the cytosolic receptor protein .
Although the exact mode of action of adapalene is unknown , it is suggested that topical adapalene may normalize the differentiation of follicular epithelial cells resulting in decreased microcomedone formation .
Pharmacokinetics : Absorption of adapalene through human skin is low .
Only trace amounts ( < 0 . 25 ng / mL ) of parent substance have been found in the plasma of acne patients following chronic topical application of adapalene in controlled clinical trials .
Excretion appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE DIFFERIN Gel is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS DIFFERIN Gel should not be administered to individuals who are hypersensitive to adapalene or any of the components in the vehicle gel .
WARNINGS Use of DIFFERIN Gel should be discontinued if hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients is noted .
Patients with sunburn should be advised not to use the product until fully recovered .
PRECAUTIONS General : If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation occurs , use of the medication should be discontinued .
Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during the use of adapalene .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with adapalene .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous skin , or sunburned skin .
Certain cutaneous signs and symptoms such as erythema , dryness , scaling , burning , or pruritus may be experienced during treatment .
These are most likely to occur during the first two to four weeks and will usually lessen with continued use of the medication .
Depending upon the severity of adverse events , patients should be instructed to reduce the frequency of application or discontinue use .
Drug Interactions : As DIFFERIN Gel has the potential to produce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid in combination with DIFFERIN Gel .
If these preparations have been used , it is advisable not to start therapy with DIFFERIN Gel until the effects of such preparations in the skin have subsided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 3 , 0 . 9 , and 2 . 6 mg / kg / day and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day , approximately 4 - 75 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
In the oral study , positive linear trends were observed in the incidence of follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in the thyroid glands of female rats , and in the incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medullas of male rats .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted .
Animal studies have shown an increased tumorigenic risk with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or to sunlight .
Although the significance of these studies to human use is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial UV irradiation sources .
In a series of in vivo and in vitro studies , adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic activities .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category C . No teratogenic effects were seen in rats at oral doses of adapalene 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 120 times the maximal daily human topical dose .
Cutaneous route teratology studies conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 , 2 . 0 , and 6 . 0 mg / kg / day , up to 150 times the maximal daily human topical dose exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in rats .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Adapalene should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when DIFFERIN Gel is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Some adverse effects such as erythema , scaling , dryness , pruritus , and burning will occur in 10 - 40 % of patients .
Pruritus or burning immediately after application also occurs in approximately 20 % of patients .
The following additional adverse experiences were reported in approximately 1 % or less of patients : skin irritation , burning / stinging , erythema , sunburn , and acne flares .
These are most commonly seen during the first month of therapy and decrease in frequency and severity thereafter .
All adverse effects with use of DIFFERIN Gel during clinical trials were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy .
OVERDOSAGE DIFFERIN Gel is intended for cutaneous use only .
If the medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
The acute oral toxicity of DIFFERIN Gel in mice and rats is greater than 10 mL / kg .
Chronic ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of Vitamin A . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DIFFERIN Gel should be applied once a day to affected areas after washing in the evening before retiring .
A thin film of the gel should be applied , avoiding eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent exacerbation of acne may occur .
This is due to the action of the medication on previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
Therapeutic results should be noticed after eight to twelve weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED DIFFERIN ( adapalene gel ) Gel , 0 . 1 % is supplied in the following size : 45 g laminate tube - NDC 54868 - 5030 - 0 Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Mfd .
by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 Mfd .
by : Galderma Production Canada , Inc .
Baie d ’ Urfe , QC , H9X 3S4 Canada Made in Canada .
GALDERMA is a registered trademark .
325034 - 0903 P50045 - 0 Revised : September 2003 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Differin ® ( adapalene gel ) GEL 0 . 1 % NET WT .
45 g NDC 54868 - 5030 - 0 Rx Only For External Use Only .
Not For Ophthalmic Use .
Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Usual dosage : Apply a thin film once a day to affected areas after washing in the evening before retiring .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains : adapalene 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) in a vehicle consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid to adjust pH .
