[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Fluocinonide Cream , USP 0 . 05 % ( Emulsified Base ) is intended for topical administration .
The active component is the corticosteroid fluocinonide , which is the 21 - acetate ester of fluocinolone acetonide and has the chemical name pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 6 , 9 - difluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 , 17 - [ ( 1 - methylethylidene ) bis ( oxy ) ] - , ( 6α , 11β , 16α ) - .
It has the following chemical structure : Mol .
Formula : C26H32F2O7 Mol .
Wt : 494 . 53 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinonide Cream , USP 0 . 05 % ( Emulsified Base ) contains fluocinonide 0 . 5 mg / g in a water - washable aqueous emollient base of cetyl alcohol , citric acid ( anhydrous ) , mineral oil , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide Cream USP , 0 . 05 % ( Emulsified Base ) is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluocinonide Cream , USP 0 . 05 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( see PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
As with any topical corticosteroid product , prolonged use may produce atrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissues .
When used on intertriginous or flexor areas , or on the face , this may occur even with short - term use .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for the Patient Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing .
• Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Pregnancy Category C Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced hypothalamicpituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : Burning Hypertrichosis Maceration of the Skin Itching Acneiform Eruptions Secondary Infection Irritation Hypopigmentation Skin Atrophy Dryness Perioral Dermatitis Striae Folliculitis Allergic Contact Dermatitis Miliaria To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact G & W Laboratories , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 922 - 1038 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Fluocinonide Cream , USP 0 . 05 % ( Emulsified Base ) is generally applied to the affected area as a thin film from two to four times daily , as needed .
Occlusive dressings may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the use of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED Fluocinonide Cream , USP 0 . 05 % ( Emulsified Base ) is supplied in 15 g ( NDC 0115 - 1705 - 52 ) , 30 g ( NDC 0115 - 1706 - 45 ) and 60 g ( NDC 0115 - 1707 - 58 ) Tubes .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Manufactured by : G & W Laboratories , Inc .
111 Coolidge Street South Plainfield , NJ 07080 Distributed by : Impax Generics Hayward , CA 94544 1933 - 01 GW 7140 Issued 08 / 2016 8 - 0664IMLNC1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 05 % , 15 G CREAM CARTON NDC 0115 - 1705 - 52 15 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 05 % , 30 G CREAM CARTON NDC 0115 - 1706 - 45 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 0 . 05 % , 60 G CREAM CARTON NDC 0115 - 1707 - 58 60 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
