Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each gram contains 20 mg of hydrocortisone acetate , 10 mg of iodoquinol and 10 mg of aloe polysaccharide in a vehicle consisting of : aminomethyl propanol , benzyl alcohol , blue 1 , carbomer , glycerin , magnesium aluminum silicate , palmitoyl tripeptide - 5 , PPG - 20 methyl glucose ether , purified water , propylene glycol , SD Alcohol 40 B , yellow 10 .
Hydrocortisone acetate is an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agent .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is [ Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11 - β ) - ] with the molecular formula ( C23H32O6 ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Iodoquinol is an antifungal and antibacterial agent .
Chemically , Iodoquinol is [ 5 , 7 - diiodo - 8 - quinolinol ] with the molecular formula ( C9H5I2NO ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aloe Polysaccharides are a concentrated , water soluble subcomponent of Aloe Vera with a mono - sugar ratio of Man : Gal : Glc : 40 : 1 . 4 : 1 . 0 , linkage of 1 - 4 ß - linkage , O - Acetyl group of 25 % of sugar units , and specific rotation of [ α ] D = - 3 . 98 ° at 23 . 2 ° C . Average molecular weight is 80 , 000 daltons .
Chemically , Aloe Polysaccharides is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocortisone acetate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
While the mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity is unclear , there is evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in humans .
Iodoquinol has both antifungal and antibacterial properties .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical steroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
Hydrocortisone acetate can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other inflammatory disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , hydrocortisone acetate is metabolized in the liver and most body tissue to hydrogenated and degraded forms such as tetrahydrocortisone and tetrahydrocortisol .
These are excreted in the urine , mainly conjugated as glucuronides , together with a very small proportion of unchanged hydrocortisone acetate .
There are no data available regarding the percutaneous absorption of iodoquinol ; however , following oral administration , 3 - 5 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as a glucuronide .
INDICATIONS Based on a review of a related drug by the National Research Council and subsequent FDA classification for that drug , the indications are as follows : " Possibly " Effective : Contact or atopic dermatitis ; impetiginized eczema ; nummular eczema ; endogenous chronic infectious dermatitis ; stasis dermatitis ; pyoderma ; nuchal eczema and chronic eczematoid otitis externa ; acne urticata ; localized or disseminated neurodermatitis ; lichen simplex chronicus ; anogenital pruritus ( vulvae , scroti , ani ) ; folliculitis ; bacterial dermatoses ; mycotic dermatoses such as tinea ( capitis , cruris , corporis , pedis ) ; monliasis ; intertrigo .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNINGS KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Information for Patients If irritation develops , the use of this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Staining of the skin , hair and fabrics may occur .
Not intended for use on infants or under diapers or occlusive dressings .
If extensive areas are treated or if the occlusive dressing technique is used , the possibility exists of increased systemic absorption of the corticosteroid , and suitable precautions should be taken .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Iodoquinol may be absorbed through the skin and interfere with thyroid function tests .
If such tests are contemplated , wait at least one month after discontinuance of therapy to perform these tests .
The ferric chloride test for phenylketonuria ( PKU ) can yield a false positive result if iodoquinol is present in the diaper or urine .
Prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms requiring appropriate therapy .
Burning , itching , irritation and dryness have been reported infrequently following the use of topical corticosteroids .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
In vitro studies to determine mutagenicity with hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Mutagenicity studies have not been performed with iodoquinol .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to affected area ( s ) three to four times per day or as directed by a physician .
Follow your physician ' s directions regarding length of treatment after symptoms resolve .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
HOW SUPPLIED This product is supplied in the following size ( s ) : 48 g Tube , NDC 72056 - 020 - 48 Call your doctor about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Manufactured for : Syntenza Pharmaceuticals LLC Edina , MN 55436 , USA SYNTENZA Rev 06 / 18 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 48 g Tube Carton SYNTENZA NDC 72056 - 020 - 48 Iodoquinol 1 % - Hydrocortisone Acetate 2 % Aloe Polysaccharides 1 % Gel Net Wt .
48 g ( 1 . 69 oz . )
Rx Only For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
