WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION , NEUROTOXICITY , and UROTOXICITY WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION , NEUROTOXICITY , AND UROTOXICITY Myelosuppression can be severe and lead to fatal infections .
Monitor blood counts prior to and at intervals after each treatment cycle .
CNS toxicities can be severe and result in encephalopathy and death .
Monitor for CNS toxicity and discontinue treatment for encephalopathy .
Nephrotoxicity can be severe and result in renal failure .
Hemorrhagic cystitis can be severe and can be reduced by the prophylactic use of mesna .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 to 5 . 3 ) ] WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION , NEUROTOXICITY , and UROTOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Myelosuppression can be severe and lead to fatal infections ( 5 . 1 ) • CNS toxicities can be severe and result in encephalopathy and death ( 5 . 2 ) • Nephrotoxicity can be severe and result in renal failure .
Hemorrhagic cystitis can be severe .
( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ifosfamide Injection is indicated for use in combination with certain other approved antineoplastic agentsfor third - line chemotherapy of germ cell testicular cancer .
It should be used in combination with mesna for prophylaxis of hemorrhagic cystitis .
Ifosfamide Injection is an alkylating drug indicated for use in combination with certain other approved antineoplastic agents for third - line chemotherapy of germ cell testicular cancer .
It should be used in combination with mesna for prophylaxis of hemorrhagic cystitis .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Ifosfamide Injection should be administered intravenously at a dose of 1 . 2 grams per m2 per day for 5 consecutive days .
Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks or after recovery from hematologic toxicity .
In order to prevent bladder toxicity , ifosfamide injection should be given with extensive hydration consisting of at least 2 liters of oral or intravenous fluid per day .
Mesna should be used to reduce the incidence of hemorrhagic cystitis .
Ifosfamide injection should be administered as a slow intravenous infusion lasting a minimum of 30 minutes .
Studies of ifosfamide injection in patients with hepatic or renal impairment have not been conducted [ see Use in Specifi c Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Preparation for Intravenous Administration / Stability Solutions of ifosfamide injection may be diluted further to achieve concentrations of 0 . 6 to 20 mg / mL in the following fluids : 5 % Dextrose Injection 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection Lactated Ringer ’ s Injections Sterile Water for Injection Because essentially identical stability results were obtained for Sterile Water admixtures as for the other admixtures ( 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , and Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection ) , the use of large volume parenteral glass bottles , Viaflex bags or PAB ™ bags that contain intermediate concentrations or mixtures of excipients ( e . g . , 2 . 5 % Dextrose Injection , 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , or 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ) is also acceptable .
Further diluted solutions of ifosfamide injection should be refrigerated and used within 24 hours .
Benzyl alcohol - containing solutions can reduce the stability of ifosfamide injection .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Dosage and duration of treatment and / or treatment intervals depend on the scheme of combination therapy , the patient ’ s general state of health and organ function , and the results of laboratory monitoring .
( 2 ) • Ifosfamide injection should be administered as a slow intravenous infusion lasting a minimum of 30 minutes at a dose of 1 . 2 grams per m2 per day for 5 consecutive days .
( 2 ) • Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks or after recovery from hematologic toxicity .
( 2 ) • To prevent bladder toxicity , ifosfamide injection should be given with extensive hydration consisting of at least 2 liters of oral or intravenous fl uid per day .
( 2 , 5 . 3 ) • Mesna should be used to reduce the incidence of hemorrhagic cystitis .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 1 g / 20 mL single - dose vial 3 g / 60 mL single - dose vial • Single dose vials : 1 g / 20 mL , 3 g / 60 mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ifosfamide is contraindicated in patients with : • Known hypersensitivity to administration of ifosfamide .
• Urinary outflow obstruction .
• Known hypersensitivity to administration of ifosfamide .
( 4 ) • Urinary outflow obstruction .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Myelosuppression : Can be severe and lead to fatal infections .
Monitor blood counts prior to and at intervals after treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Neurotoxicity : Severe and fatal neurotoxicity can occur .
Carefully monitor the patient for CNS toxicity and other neurotoxic effects .
Discontinue therapy should encephalopathy develop .
( 5 . 2 ) • Urotoxicity : Severe nephrotoxicity with renal failure and death can occur .
Monitor for nephrotoxicity with serum and urine chemistries .
Mesna should be used to reduce hemorrhagic cystitis .
( 5 . 3 ) • Cardiotoxicity : Arrhythmias , other ECG changes , and cardiomyopathy can occur and result in death .
Use with caution in patients with cardiac risk factors and in patients with preexisting cardiac disease .
The risk of cardiotoxicity is dose dependent .
( 5 . 4 ) • Pulmonary toxicity : Interstitial pneumonitis , pulmonary fi brosis , and other forms of pulmonary toxicity with fatal outcomes can occur .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity and treat as clinically indicated ( 5 . 5 ) • Secondary malignancies as late sequelae have occurred .
( 5 . 6 ) • Pregnancy : Can cause fetal harm .
Women should not become pregnant and men should not father a child during therapy .
( 5 . 8 ) • Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , and Infections Treatment with ifosfamide may cause myelosuppression and significant suppression of immune responses , which can lead to severe infections .
Fatal outcomes of ifosfamide - associated myelosuppression have been reported .
Ifosfamide - induced myelosuppression can cause leukopenia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia ( associated with a higher risk of bleeding events ) , and anemia .
The nadir of the leukocyte count tends to be reached approximately during the second week after administration .
When ifosfamide is given in combination with other chemotherapeutic / hematotoxic agents and / or radiation therapy , severe myelosuppression is frequently observed .
The risk of myelosuppression is dose - dependent and is increased with administration of a single high dose compared with fractionated administration .
The risk of myelosuppression is also increased in patients with reduced renal function .
Severe immunosuppression has led to serious , sometimes fatal , infections .
Sepsis and septic shock also have been reported .
Infections reported with ifosfamide include pneumonias , as well as other bacterial , fungal , viral , and parasitic infections .
Latent infections can be reactivated .
In patients treated with ifosfamide , reactivation has been reported for various viral infections .
Infections must be treated appropriately .
Antimicrobial prophylaxis may be indicated in certain cases of neutropenia at the discretion of the managing physician .
In case of neutropenic fever , antibiotics and / or antimycotics must be given .
Close hematologic monitoring is recommended .
White blood cell ( WBC ) count , platelet count and hemoglobin should be obtained prior to each administration and at appropriate intervals after administration .
Unless clinically essential , ifosfamide should not be given to patients with a WBC count below 2000 / μL and / or a platelet count below 50 , 000 / μL .
Ifosfamide should be given cautiously , if at all , to patients with presence of an infection , severe immunosuppression or compromised bone marrow reserve , as indicated by leukopenia , granulocytopenia , extensive bone marrow metastases , prior radiation therapy , or prior therapy with other cytotoxic agents .
5 . 2 Central Nervous System Toxicity , Neurotoxicity Administration of ifosfamide can cause CNS toxicity and other neurotoxic effects .
The risk of CNS toxicity and other neurotoxic effects necessitates careful monitoring of the patient .
Neurologic manifestations consisting of somnolence , confusion , hallucinations , blurred vision , psychotic behavior , extrapyramidal symptoms , urinary incontinence , seizures , and in some instances , coma , have been reported following ifosfamide therapy .
There have also been reports of peripheral neuropathy associated with ifosfamide use .
Ifosfamide neurotoxicity may manifest within a few hours to a few days after fi rst administration and in most cases resolves within 48 to 72 hours of ifosfamide discontinuation .
Symptoms may persist for longer periods of time .
Supportive therapy should be maintained until their complete resolution .
Occasionally , recovery has been incomplete .
Fatal outcomes of CNS toxicity have been reported .
Recurrence of CNS toxicity after several uneventful treatment courses has been reported .
If encephalopathy develops , administration of ifosfamide should be discontinued .
Due to the potential for additive effects , drugs acting on the CNS ( such as antiemetics , sedatives , narcotics , or antihistamines ) must be used with particular caution or , if necessary , be discontinued in case of ifosfamide - induced encephalopathy .
Manifestations of CNS toxicity may impair a patient ’ s ability to operate an automobile or other heavy machinery .
5 . 3 Renal and Urothelial Toxicity and Effects Ifosfamide is both nephrotoxic and urotoxic .
Glomerular and tubular kidney function must be evaluated before commencement of therapy as well as during and after treatment .
Monitor urinary sediment regularly for the presence of erythrocytes and other signs of uro / nephrotoxicity .
Monitor serum and urine chemistries , including phosphorus and potassium regularly .
Administer appropriate replacement therapy as indicated .
Renal parenchymal and tubular necrosis have been reported in patients treated with ifosfamide .
Acute tubular necrosis , acute renal failure , and chronic renal failure secondary to ifosfamide therapy have been reported , and fatal outcome from nephrotoxicity has been documented .
Disorders of renal function , ( glomerular and tubular ) following ifosfamide administration are very common .
Manifestations include a decrease in glomerular filtration rate , increased serum creatinine , proteinuria , enzymuria , cylindruria , aminoaciduria , phosphaturia , and glycosuria as well as tubular acidosis .
Fanconi syndrome , renal rickets , and growth retardation in children as well as osteomalacia in adults also have been reported .
Development of a syndrome resembling SIADH ( syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ) has been reported with ifosfamide .
Tubular damage may become apparent during therapy , months or even years after cessation of treatment .
Glomerular or tubular dysfunction may resolve with time , remain stable , or progress over a period of months or years , even after completion of ifosfamide treatment .
The risk and expected benefits of ifosfamide therapy should be carefully weighed when considering the use of ifosfamide in patients with preexisting renal impairment or reduced nephron reserve .
Urotoxic side effects , especially hemorrhagic cystitis , have been very commonly associated with the use of ifosfamide .
These urotoxic effects can be reduced by prophylactic use of mesna .
Hemorrhagic cystitis requiring blood transfusion has been reported with ifosfamide .
The risk of hemorrhagic cystitis is dose - dependent and increased with administration of single high doses compared to fractionated administration .
Hemorrhagic cystitis after a single dose of ifosfamide has been reported .
Past or concomitant radiation of the bladder or busulfan treatment may increase the risk for hemorrhagic cystitis .
Before starting treatment , it is necessary to exclude or correct any urinary tract obstructions [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
During or immediately after administration , adequate amounts of fluid should be ingested or infused to force dieresis in order to reduce the risk of urinary tract toxicity .
Obtain a urinalysis prior to each dose of ifosfamide .
If microscopic hematuria ( greater than 10 RBCs per high power field ) is present , then subsequent administration should be withheld until complete resolution .
Further administration of ifosfamide should be given with vigorous oral or parenteral hydration .
Ifosfamide should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active urinary tract infections .
5 . 4 Cardiotoxicity Manifestations of cardiotoxicity reported with ifosfamide treatment include : - Supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias , including atrial / supraventricular tachycardia , atrial fibrillation , pulseless ventricular tachycardia - Decreased QRS voltage and ST - segment or T - wave changes - Toxic cardiomyopathy leading to heart failure with congestion and hypotension - Pericardial effusion , fibrinous pericarditis , and epicardial fibrosis Fatal outcome of ifosfamide - associated cardiotoxicity has been reported .
The risk of developing cardiotoxic effects is dose - dependent .
It is increased in patients with prior or concomitant treatment with other cardiotoxic agents or radiation of the cardiac region and , possibly , renal impairment .
Particular caution should be exercised when ifosfamide is used in patients with risk factors for cardiotoxicity and in patients with preexisting cardiac disease .
5 . 5 Pulmonary Toxicity Interstitial pneumonitis , pulmonary fibrosis , and other forms of pulmonary toxicity have been reported with ifosfamide treatment .
Pulmonary toxicity leading to respiratory failure as well as fatal outcome has also been reported .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity and treat as clinically indicated .
5 . 6 Secondary Malignancies Treatment with ifosfamide involves the risk of secondary tumors and their precursors as late sequelae .
The risk of myelodysplastic alterations , some progressing to acute leukemias , is increased .
Other malignancies reported after use of ifosfamide or regimens with ifosfamide include lymphoma , thyroid cancer , and sarcomas .
The secondary malignancy may develop several years after chemotherapy has been discontinued .
5 . 7 Veno - occlusive Liver Disease Veno - occlusive liver disease has been reported with chemotherapy that included ifosfamide .
5 . 8 Pregnancy Ifosfamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fetal growth retardation and neonatal anemia have been reported following exposure to ifosfamide - containing chemotherapy regimens during pregnancy .
Ifosfamide is genotoxic and mutagenic in male and female germ cells .
Embryotoxic and teratogenic effects have been observed in mice , rats and rabbits at doses 0 . 05 to 0 . 075 times the human dose .
Women should not become pregnant and men should not father a child during therapy with ifosfamide .
Further , men should not father a child for up to 6 months after the end of therapy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug or after treatment , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 9 Effects on Fertility Ifosfamide interferes with oogenesis and spermatogenesis .
Amenorrhea , azoospermia , and sterility in both sexes have been reported .
Development of sterility appears to depend on the dose of ifosfamide , duration of therapy , and state of gonadal function at the time of treatment .
Sterility may be irreversible in some patients .
Female Patients Amenorrhea has been reported in patients treated with ifosfamide .
The risk of permanent chemotherapy - induced amenorrhea increases with age .
Pediatric patients treated with ifosfamide during prepubescence subsequently may not conceive and those who retain ovarian function after completing treatment are at increased risk of developing premature menopause .
Male Patients Men treated with ifosfamide may develop oligospermia or azoospermia .
Pediatric patients treated with ifosfamide during prepubescence might not develop secondary sexual characteristics normally , but may have oligospermia or azoospermia .
Azoospermia may be reversible in some patients , though the reversibility may not occur for several years after cessation of therapy .
Sexual function and libido are generally unimpaired in these patients .
Some degree of testicular atrophy may occur .
Patients treated with ifosfamide have subsequently fathered children .
5 . 10 Anaphylactic / Anaphylactoid Reactions and Cross - sensitivity Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in association with ifosfamide .
Cross - sensitivity between oxazaphosphorine cytotoxic agents has been reported .
5 . 11 Impairment of Wound Healing Ifosfamide may interfere with normal wound healing .
5 . 12 Nursing Ifosfamide is excreted in breast milk .
Women must not breastfeed during treatment with ifosfamide [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials of ifosfamide monotherapy , the most common ( ≥ 10 % ) adverse reactions were alopecia , nausea / vomiting , leukopenia , anemia , CNS toxicity , hematuria , and infection .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Because clinical trials are conducted from widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The adverse reactions and frequencies below are based on 30 publications describing clinical experience with fractionated administration of ifosfamide as monotherapy with a total dose of 4 to 12 g / m2 per course .
System Organ Class ( SOC ) Adverse Reaction Percentage ( Ratio ) INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS Infection 9 . 9 % ( 112 / 1128 ) BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM DISORDERS Leukopenia1 ( any ) Leukopenia < 1 x 103 / µL 43 . 5 % ( 267 / 614 ) Thrombocytopenia2 ( any ) Thrombocytopenia 50 x 103 / µL 4 . 8 % ( 35 / 729 ) Anemia3 37 . 9 % ( 202 / 533 ) METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS Anorexia 1 . 1 % ( 15 / 1317 ) NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Central nervous system toxicity4 , 5 15 . 4 % ( 154 / 1001 ) Peripheral neuropathy 0 . 4 % ( 5 / 1317 ) CARDIAC DISORDERS Cardiotoxicity6 0 . 5 % ( 7 / 1317 ) VASCULAR DISORDERS Hypotention7 0 . 3 % ( 4 / 1317 ) GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Nausea / Vomiting 46 . 8 % ( 443 / 964 ) Diarrhea 0 . 7 % ( 9 / 1317 ) Stomatitis 0 . 3 % ( 4 / 1317 ) HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS Hepatotoxicity8 1 . 8 % ( 22 / 1190 ) SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES DISORDERS Alopecia 89 . 6 % ( 540 / 603 ) Dermatitis 0 . 08 % ( 1 / 1317 ) Papular rash 0 . 08 % ( 1 / 1317 ) RENAL AND URINARY DISORDERS Hemorrhagic cystitis9 Hematuria - without mesna 44 . 1 % ( 282 / 640 ) - with mesna 21 . 3 % ( 33 / 155 ) Macrohematuria - without mesna 11 . 1 % ( 66 / 594 ) - with mesna 5 . 2 % ( 5 / 97 ) Renal dysfunction10 -- Renal structural damage -- GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE SITE CONDITIONS Phlebitis11 2 . 8 % ( 37 / 1317 ) Neutropenic fever12 1 % ( 13 / 1317 ) Fatigue 0 . 3 % ( 4 / 1317 ) Malaise Unable to calculate 1 The following adverse reaction terms have been reported for leukopenia : neutropenia , granulocytopenia , lymphopenia , and pancytopenia .
For neutropenic fever , see below .
2 Thrombocytopenia may also be complicated by bleeding .
Bleeding with fatal outcome has been reported .
3 Includes cases reported as anemia and decrease in hemoglobin / hematocrit .
4 Encephalopathy with coma and death has been reported .
5 Central nervous system toxicity was reported to be manifested by the following signs and symptoms : Abnormal behavior , Affect lability Aggression , Agitation , Anxiety , Aphasia , Asthenia , Ataxia , Cerebellar syndrome , Cerebral function defi ciency , Cognitive disorder , Coma , Confusional state , Convulsions , Cranial nerve dysfunction , Depressed state of consciousness , Depression , Disorientation , Dizziness , Electroencephalogram abnormal , Encephalopathy , Flat affect .
Hallucinations , Headache , Ideation , Lethargy , Memory impairment , Mood change , Motor dysfunction , Muscle spasms , Myoclonus , Progressive loss of brainstem reflexes , Psychotic reaction , Restlessness , Somnolence , Tremor , Urinary incontinence .
6 Cardiotoxicity was reported as congestive heart failure , tachycardia , pulmonary edema .
Fatal outcome has been reported .
7 Hypotension leading to shock and fatal outcome has been reported .
8 Hepatotoxicity was reported as increases in liver enzymes , i . e . , serum alanine aminotransferase , serum aspartate aminotransferase , alkaline phosphatase , gamma - glutamyltransferase and lactate dehydrogenase , increased bilirubin , jaundice , hepatorenal syndrome .
9 Reported symptoms of hemorrhagic cystitis included dysuria and pollakiuria .
See also Post - marketing Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) .
10 Renal dysfunction was reported to be manifested as : Renal failure ( including acute renal failure , irreversible renal failure ; fatal outcomes have been reported ) , Serum creatinine increased , BUN increased , Creatinine clearance decreased , Metabolic acidosis , Anuria , Oliguria , Glycosuria , Hyponatremia , Uremia , Creatinine clearance increased .
Renal structural damage was reported to be manifested as : Acute tubular necrosis , renal parenchymal damage , Enzymuria , Cylindruria , Proteinuria .
11 Includes cases reported as phlebitis and irritation of the venous walls .
12 Includes cases reported as granulocytopenic fever .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Ifosfamide injection .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS : The following manifestations have been associated with myelosuppression and immunosuppression caused by ifosfamide : increased risk for and severity of infections † , pneumonias † , sepsis and septic shock ( including fatal outcomes ) , as well as reactivation of latent infections , including viral hepatitis † , Pneumocystis jiroveci † , herpes zoster , Strongyloides , progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy † , and other viral and fungal infections .
† Severe immunosuppression has led to serious , sometimes fatal , infections .
NEOPLASMS , BENIGN AND MALIGNANT AND UNSPECIFIED ( INCL .
CYSTS AND POLYPS ) : As treatment - related secondary malignancy * , Acute leukemia * ( Acute myeloid leukemia ) * , Acute promyelocytic leukemia * , Acute lymphocytic leukemia * , Myelodysplastic syndrome , Lymphoma ( Non - Hodgkin ’ s lymphoma ) , Sarcomas * , Renal cell carcinoma , Thyroid cancer BLOOD AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM DISORDERS : Hematotoxicity * , Myelosuppression manifested as Bone marrow failure , Agranulocytosis ; Febrile bone marrow aplasia ; Disseminated intravascular coagulation , Hemolytic uremic syndrome , Hemolytic anemia , Neonatal anemia , Methemoglobinemia IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS : Angioedema * , Anaphylactic reaction , Immunosuppression , Urticaria , Hypersensitivity reaction ENDOCRINE DISORDERS : Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) METABOLISM AND NUTRITION DISORDERS : Tumor lysis syndrome , Metabolic acidosis , Hypokalemia , Hypocalcemia , Hypophosphatemia , Hyperglycemia , Polydipsia PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS : Panic attack , Catatonia , Mania , Paranoia , Delusion , Delirium , Bradyphrenia , Mutism , Mental status change , Echolalia , Logorrhea , Perseveration , Amnesia NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS : Convulsion * , Status epilepticus ( convulsive and nonconvulsive ) , reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome , Leukoencephalopathy , Extrapyramidal disorder , Asterixis , Movement disorder , Polyneuropathy , Dysesthesia , Hypothesia , Paresthesia , Neuralgia , Gait disturbance , Fecal incontinence , Dysarthria Ifosfamide has been reintroduced after neurotoxicity .
While some patients did not experience neurotoxicity , others had recurrent , including fatal , events .
EYE DISORDERS : Visual impairment , Vision blurred , Conjunctivitis , Eye irritation EAR AND LABYRINTH DISORDERS : Deafness , Hypoacusis , Vertigo , Tinnitus CARDIAC DISORDERS : Cardiotoxicity * , Cardiac arrest * , Ventricular fi brillation * , Ventricular tachycardia * , Cardiogenic shock * , Myocardial infarction * , Cardiac failure * , Bundle branch block left , Bundle branch block right , Pericardial effusion , Myocardial hemorrhage , Angina pectoris , Left ventricular failure , Cardiomyopathy * , Congestive cardiomyopathy , Myocarditis * , Arrhythmia * , Pericarditis , Atrial fi brillation , Atrial fl utter , Bradycardia , Supraventricular extrasystoles , Premature atrial contractions , Ventricular extrasystoles , Myocardial depression , Palpitations , Ejection fraction decreased * , Electrocardiogram ST - segment abnormal , Electrocardiogram T - wave inversion , Electrocardiogram QRS complex abnormal VASCULAR DISORDERS : Pulmonary embolism , Deep vein thrombosis , Capillary leak syndrome , Vasculitis , Hypertension , Flushing , Blood pressure decreased RESPIRATORY , THORACIC , AND MEDIASTINAL DISORDERS : Respiratory failure * , Acute respiratory distress syndrome * , Pulmonary hypertension * , Interstitial lung disease * as manifested by Pulmonary fi brosis * , Alveolitis allergic , Interstitial pneumonitis , Pneumonitis * , Pulmonary edema * , Pleural effusion , Bronchospasm , Dyspnea , Hypoxia , Cough GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS : Cecitis , Colitis , Enterocolitis , Pancreatitis , Ileus , Gastrointestinal hemorrhage , Mucosal ulceration , Constipation , Abdominal pain , Salivary hypersecretion HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS : Hepatic failure * , Hepatitis fulminant * , Veno - occlusive liver disease , Portal vein thrombosis , Cytolytic hepatitis , Cholestasis SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE DISORDERS : Toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , Palmar - plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , Radiation recall dermatitis , Skin necrosis , Facial swelling , Petechiae , Macular rash , Rash , Pruritus , Erythema , Skin hyperpigmentation , Hyperhidrosis , nail disorder MUSCULOSKELETAL AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE DISORDER : Rhabdomyolysis , Osteomalacia , Rickets , Growth retardation , Myalgia , Arthralgia , Pain in extremity , Muscle twitching RENAL AND URINARY DISORDERS : Fanconi syndrome , Tubulointerstitial nephritis , Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , Phosphaturia , Aminoaciduria , Polyuria , Enuresis , Feeling of residual urine Fatal outcomes from acute and chronic renal failure have been documented .
REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM AND BREAST DISORDERS : Infertility , Ovarian failure , Premature menopause , Amenorrhea , Ovarian disorder , Ovulation disorder , Azoospermia , Oligospermia , Impairment of spermatogenesis , Blood estrogen decreased , Blood gonadotrophin increased CONGENITAL , FAMILIAL AND GENETIC DISORDERS : Fetal growth retardation GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE SITE CONDITIONS : Multi - organ failure * , General physical deterioration , Injection / Infusion site reactions including swelling , infl ammation , pain , erythema , tenderness , pruritus ; Chest pain , Edema , Mucosal infl ammation , Pain , Pyrexia , Chills * Including fatal outcomes 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Ifosfamide is a substrate for both CYP3A4 and CYP2B6 .
• CYP3A4 Inducers : monitor for increased toxicity when used in combination with CYP3A4 inducers .
( 7 . 1 ) • CYP3A4 Inhibitors : use in combination with CYP3A4 inhibitors could decrease the effectiveness of ifosfamide .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Inducers of CYP3A4 CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . , carbamazepine , phenytoin , fosphenytoin , phenobarbital , rifampin , St . John Wort ) may increase the metabolism of ifosfamide to its active alkylating metabolites .
CYP3A4 inducers may increase the formation of the neurotoxic / nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite , chloroacetaldehyde .
Closely monitor patients taking ifosfamide with CYP3A4 inducers for toxicities and consider dose adjustment .
7 . 2 Inhibitors of CYP3A4 CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , fluconazole , itraconazole , sorafenib , aprepitant , fosaprepitant , grapefruit , grapefruit juice ) may decrease the metabolism of ifosfamide to its active alkylating metabolites , perhaps decreasing the effectiveness of ifosfamide treatment .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : fetal growth retardation and neonatal anemia .
( 8 . 1 ) • Geriatric use : dose selection should be cautious .
( 8 . 5 ) • Patients with renal impairment : monitor for toxicity and consider dose reduction as needed ( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Ifosfamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fetal growth retardation and neonatal anemia have been reported following exposure to ifosfamide - containing chemotherapy regimens during pregnancy .
Animal studies indicate that ifosfamide is capable of causing gene mutations and chromosomal damage invivo .
In pregnant mice , resorptions increased and anomalies were present at day 19 after a 30 mg / m2 dose of ifosfamide was administered on day 11 of gestation .
Embryo - lethal effects were observed in rats following the administration of 54 mg / m2 doses of ifosfamide from the 6 th through the 15 th day of gestation and embryotoxic effects were apparent after dams received 18 mg / m2 doses over the same dosing period .
Ifosfamide is embryotoxic to rabbits receiving 88 mg / m2 / day doses from the 6 th through the 18 th day after mating .
The number of anomalies was also significantly increased over the control group .
Women should not become pregnant and men should not father a child during therapy with ifosfamide .
Further , men should not father a child for up to 6 months after the end of therapy .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug or after treatment , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ifosfamide is excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse events and the tumorigenicity shown for ifosfamide in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Women must not breastfeed during treatment with ifosfamide .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , refl ecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
A study of patients 40 to 71 years of age indicated that elimination half - life appears to increase with advancing age [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
This apparent increase in half - life appeared to be related to increases in volume of distribution of ifosfamide with age .
No signifi cant changes in total plasma clearance or renal or non - renal clearance with age were reported .
Ifosfamide and its metabolites are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted in patients with renal impairment .
Ifosfamide and its metabolites are known to be excreted by the kidneys and may accumulate in plasma with decreased renal function .
Patients with renal impairment should be closely monitored for toxicity and dose reduction may be considered .
Ifosfamide and its metabolites are dialyzable .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted in patients with hepatic impairment .
Ifosfamide is extensively metabolized in the liver and forms both efficacious and toxic metabolites .
Ifosfamide should be given cautiously to patients with impaired hepatic function .
10 OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote for ifosfamide is known .
Patients who receive an overdose should be closely monitored for the development of toxicities .
Serious consequences of overdosage include manifestations of dose - dependent toxicities such as CNS toxicity , nephrotoxicity , myelosuppression , and mucositis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Management of overdosage would include general supportive measures to sustain the patient through any period of toxicity that might occur , including appropriate state - of - the - art treatment for any concurrent infection , myelosuppression , or other toxicity .
Ifosfamide as well as ifosfamide metabolites are dialyzable .
Cystitis prophylaxis with mesna may be helpful in preventing or limiting urotoxic effects with overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Ifosfamide injection is presented in sterile , single - dose vials for administration by intravenous infusion .
Each mL contains ifosfamide , 50 mg , monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate , 1 . 035 mg , dibasic sodium phosphate , 3 . 55 mg and water for injection , q . s ..
Ifosfamide is a chemotherapeutic agent chemically related to the nitrogen mustards and a synthetic analog cyclophosphamide .
Ifosfamide is 3 - ( 2 - ChloroethyI ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - chloroethyl ) amino ] tetrahydro - 2 H - 1 , 3 , 2 - oxazaphosphorine 2 - oxide .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C7H15Cl2N2O2P M . W . = 261 . 09 Ifosfamide is a white crystalline powder that is soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ifosfamide is a prodrug that requires metabolic activation by hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes to exert its cytotoxic activity .
Activation occurs by hydroxylation at the ring carbon atom forming the unstable intermediate 4 - hydroxyifosfamide and its ring - opened aldo tautomer , which decomposes to yield the cytotoxic and urotoxic compound acrolein and an alkylating isophosphoramide mustard as well as multiple other nontoxic products .
The exact mechanism of action of ifosfamide has not been determined , but its cytotoxic action is primarily through DNA crosslinks caused by alkylation by the isophosphoramide mustard at guanine N - 7 positions .
The formation of inter - and intra - strand cross - links in the DNA results in cell death .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics concentrations decay biphasically and the mean terminal elimination half - life is about 15 hours .
At doses of 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 g / m2 / day , the plasma decay is monoexponential and the terminal elimination half - life is about 7 hours .
Ifosfamide exhibits time - dependent pharmacokinetics in humans .
Following intravenous administration of 1 . 5 g / m2 over 0 . 5 hour once daily for 5 days to 15 patients with neoplastic disease , a decrease in the median elimination half - life from 7 . 2 hours on Day 1 to 4 . 6 hours on Day 5 occurred with a concomitant increase in the median clearance from 66 mL / min on Day 1 to 115 mL / min on Day 5 .
There was no significant change in the volume of distribution on Day 5 compared with Day 1 .
Distribution Ifosfamide volume of distribution ( Vd ) approximates the total body water volume , suggesting that distribution takes place with minimal tissue binding .
Following intravenous administration of 1 . 5 g / m2 over 0 . 5 hour once daily for 5 days to 15 patients with neoplastic disease , the median Vd of ifosfamide was 0 . 64 L / kg on Day 1 and 0 . 72 L / kg on Day 5 .
Ifosfamide shows little plasma protein binding .
Ifosfamide and its active metabolites are extensively bound by red blood cells .
Ifosfamide is not a substrate for P - glycoprotein .
Metabolism Ifosfamide is extensively metabolized in humans through two metabolic pathways : ring oxidation ( “ activation ” ) to form the active metabolite , 4 - hydroxy - ifosfamide and side - chain oxidation to form the inactive metabolites , 3 - dechloro - ethylifosfamide or 2 - dechloroethylifosfamide with liberation of the toxic metabolite , chloroacetaldehyde .
Small quantities ( nmol / mL ) of ifosfamide mustard and 4 - hydroxyifosfamide are detectable in human plasma .
Metabolism of ifosfamide is required for the generation of the biologically active species and while metabolism is extensive , it is also quite variable among patients .
Excretion After administration of doses of 5 g / m2 of 14 C - labeled ifosfamide , from 70 % to 86 % of the dosed radioactivity was recovered in urine as metabolites , with about 61 % of the dose excreted as parent compound .
At doses of 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 g / m2 only 12 % to 18 % of the dose was excreted in the urine as unchanged drug within 72 hours .
Two different dechloroethylated derivatives of ifosfamide , 4 - carboxyifosfamide , thiodiacetic acid and cysteine conjugates of chloroacetic acid have been identifi ed as the major urinary metabolites of ifosfamide in humans and only small amounts of 4 - hydroxyifosfamide and acrolein are present .
Pediatrics Population PK analysis was performed on plasma data from 32 pediatric patients various malignant diseases aged between 1 and 18 years .
Patients received a total of 45 courses of ifosfamide at doses of 1 . 2 , 2 and 3 g / m2 given intravenously over 1 or 3 hours on 1 , 2 , or 3 days .
The mean ± standard error population estimates for the initial clearance and volume of distribution of ifosfamide were 2 . 4 ± 0 . 33 L / h / m2 and 21 ± 1 . 6 L / m2with an interindividual variability of 43 % and 32 % , respectively .
Effect of Age A study of 20 patients between 40 to 71 years of age receiving 1 . 5 g / m2 of ifosfamide daily for 3 or 5 days indicated that elimination half - life appears to increase with age .
The elimination half - life increase appeared to be related to the increase in ifosfamide volume of distribution with age .
No significant changes in total plasma clearance or renal clearance with age were reported .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Ifosfamide has been shown to be carcinogenic in rats when administered by intraperitoneal injection at 6 mg / kg ( 37 mg / m2 , or about 3 % of the daily human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) 3 times a week for 52 weeks .
Female rats had a signifi cantly higher incidence of uterine leiomyosarcomas and mammary fibroadenomas than vehicle controls .
The mutagenic potential of ifosfamide has been documented in bacterial systems in vitro and mammalian cells in vivo .
In vivo , ifosfamide has induced mutagenic effects in mice and Drosophila melanogaster germ cells , and has induced a significant increase in dominant lethal mutations in male mice as well as recessive sex - linked lethal mutations in Drosophila .
Ifosfamide was administered to male and female beagle dogs at doses of 1 or 4 . 64 mg / kg / day ( 20 or 93 mg / m2 ) orally 6 days a week for 26 weeks .
Male dogs at 4 . 64 mg / kg ( about 7 . 7 % of the daily clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) had testicular atrophy with degeneration of the seminiferous tubular epithelium .
In a second study , male and female rats were given 0 , 25 , 50 , or 100 mg / kg ( 0 , 150 , 300 , or 600 mg / m2 ) ifosfamide intraperitoneally once every 3 weeks for 6 months .
Decreased spermatogenesis was observed in most male rats given 100 mg / kg ( about half the daily clinical dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Patients with refractory testicular cancer ( n = 59 ) received a combination of ifosfamide , cisplatin , and either etoposide ( VePesid ® ) or vinblastine ( VIP ) as third - line therapy or later .
The selection of etoposide or vinblastine ( “ V ” in the VIP regimen ) was guided by the therapeutic effect achieved with prior regimens .
The contribution of ifosfamide to the VIP combination was determined in patients treated with cisplatin - etoposide prior to ifosfamide - cisplatin - etoposide or those who received cisplatin - vinblastine prior to ifosfamide - cisplatin - vinblastine .
A total of 59 patients received a third - line salvage regimen which consisted of ifosfamide 1 . 2 g / m2 / day intravenously on days 1 to 5 , cisplatin 20 mg / m2 / day intravenously on days 1 to 5 , and either etoposide 75 mg / m2 / day intravenously on days 1 to 5 or vinblastine 0 . 22 mg / kg intravenously on day 1 .
Efficacy results with the VIP regimen were compared to data pooled from six single agent phase II trials conducted between August 1980 and October 1985 including a total of 90 patients of whom 65 were eligible as controls of this study .
Twenty - three patients in the VIP regimen became free of disease with VIP alone or VIP plus surgery , whereas a single patient in the historical control group achieved complete response .
The median survival time exceeded two years in the VIP group versus less than one year in the control group .
Performance status ≥ 80 , embryonal carcinoma and minimal disease were favorable prognostic factors for survival .
In all prognostic categories , the difference between VIP and historical controls remained highly significant .
Number .
( % ) of Patients p - value VIP Control Total Patients 59 ( 100 ) 65 ( 100 ) Disease - free 23 ( 39 ) 1 ( 2 ) < 0 . 001 Chemotherapy alone 15 ( 25 ) 1 ( 2 ) < 0 . 001 Chemotherapy plus surgery 8 ( 14 ) 0 Overall Response 32 ( 54 ) 2 ( 3 ) < 0 . 001 Time to progression ( weeks ) Median 19 4 < 0 . 001 a Range 1 to 205 + 1 to 29 Disease - free interval ( weeks ) Median 114 29 Range 13 to 205 + -- Survival ( weeks ) Median 53 10 < 0 . 001 a Range 1 to 205 + 1 to 123 + a : Gehan - Breslow and Mantel - Cox tests In a study , 50 fully evaluable patients with germ cell testicular cancer were treated with ifosfamide in combination with cisplatin and either vinblastine or etoposide after failing ( 47 of 50 patients ) at least two prior chemotherapy regimens consisting of cisplatin / vinblastine / bleomycin , ( PVB ) , cisplatin / vinblastine / actinomycin D / bleomycin / cyclophosphamide , ( VAB6 ) , or the combination of cisplatin and etoposide .
Patients were selected for remaining cisplatin sensitivity because they had previously responded to a cisplatin containing regimen and had not progressed while on the cisplatin containing regimen or within 3 weeks of stopping it .
Patients served as their own control based on the premise that long term complete responses could not be achieved by retreatment with a regimen to which they had previously responded and subsequently relapsed .
Ten of 50 fully evaluable patients were still alive 2 to 5 years after treatment .
Four of the 10 long term survivors were rendered free of cancer by surgical resection after treatment with the ifosfamide regimen ; median survival for the entire group of 50 fully evaluable patients was 53 weeks .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
NIOSH Alert : Preventing occupational exposures to antineoplastic and other hazardous drugs in healthcare settings .
2004 .
U . S . Department of Health and Human Services , Public Health Service , Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health , DHHS ( NIOSH ) Publication No . 2004 - 165 .
2 .
OSHA Technical Manual , TED 1 - 0 . 15 A , Section VI : Chapter 2 .
Controlling occupational exposure to hazardous drugs .
OSHA , 1999 .
http : / / www . osha . gov / dts / osta / otm / otm _ vi / otm _ vi _ 2 . html 3 .
American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am JHealth - Syst Pharm .
2006 ; 63 : 1172 - 1193 .
4 .
Polovich M , White JM , Kelleher LO , ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice .
( 2 nd ed . )
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ifosfamide Injection is available in single - dose vials as follows : NDC 0143 - 9531 - 01 – 1 g / 20 mL Single Dose Vial of ifosfamide ; individually - boxed .
NDC 0143 - 9530 - 01 – 3 g / 60 mL Single Dose Vial of ifosfamide ; individually - boxed .
Store in a refrigerator 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
See USP .
Exercise caution when handling ifosfamide .
The handling and preparation of ifosfamide should always be in accordance with current guidelines on safe handling of cytotoxic agents .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 4 Skin reactions associated with accidental exposure to ifosfamide may occur .
To minimize the risk of dermal exposure , always wear impervious gloves when handling vials and solutions containing ifosfamide .
If ifosfamide solution contacts the skin or mucosa , immediately wash the skin thoroughly with soap and water or rinse the mucosa with copious amounts of water .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Myelosuppression , Immunosuppression , and Infections • Advise patients that treatment with ifosfamide injection may cause myelosuppression which can be severe and lead to infections and fatal outcomes .
• Inform patients of the risks associated with the use of ifosfamide injection and plan for regular blood monitoring during therapy [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Inform patients to report fever or other symptoms of an infection [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients on the risks of bleeding and anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 8 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Central Nervous System Toxicity , Neurotoxicity • Advise patients on the risk of CNS toxicity and other neurotoxic effects with fatal outcome [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Renal and Urothelial Toxicity and Effects • Advise patients on the risk of bladder and kidney toxicity .
• Advise patients of the need to increase fluid intake and frequent voiding to prevent accumulation in the bladder [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cardiotoxicity • Advise patients on the risk of cardiotoxicity and fatal outcome .
Advise patients to report preexisting cardiac disease and manifestations of cardiotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Pulmonary Toxicity • Advise patients on the risk of pulmonary toxicity leading to respiratory failure with fatal outcome .
• Inform patients to report signs and symptoms of pulmonary toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Secondary Malignancies • Advise patients on the risk of secondary malignancies due to therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Veno - occlusive Liver Disease • Advise patients on the risk of veno - occlusive liver disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Pregnancy • Advise patients on the potential hazard to a fetus if a patient becomes pregnant or fathers a child during therapy and for up to 6 months after therapy .
• Advise patients to use effective contraception during therapy and for up to 6 months after therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise patients on the potential for serious adverse reactions and tumorigenicity when children are breastfed during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Reproductive System Disorders • Advise patients on the risk of amenorrhea , premature menopause , and sterility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders • Advise patients on the risk of alopecia , wound healing , and other serious skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Disorders • Advise patients that the therapy may cause gastrointestinal disorders and alcohol may increase nausea and vomiting [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients on the risk of stomatitis and the importance of proper oral hygiene [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Eye Disorders • Advise patients on the risk of eye disorders such as visual impairment , blurred vision , and eye irritation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders • Advise patients on the risk of ear and labyrinth disorders such as deafness , vertigo , and tinnitus [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : THYMOORGAN PHARMAZIE GmbH , Schiffgraben 23 , 38690 Goslar , Germany Distributed by : West - Ward Pharmaceuticals Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised : March 2019 127 . 207 . 010 / 02 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9531 - 01 Rx only IFOSFAMIDE INJECTION 1 g / 20 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9530 - 01 Rx only IFOSFAMIDE INJECTION 3 g / 60 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CARTON SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
