[ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Active Ingredient Purpose Propylene Glycol 0 . 6 % Lubricant Uses • for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • for use as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relive dryness of the eye Warnings For external use only Do not use • if this product changes color • if you are sensitive to any ingredient in this product When using this product • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after each use Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following : • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • shake well before using • put 1 or 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) as needed Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients : boric acid , dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol , edetate disodium , hydroxypropyl guar , mineral oil , polyoxyl 40 stearate , POLYQUAD ® ( polyquaternium - 1 ) 0 . 001 % preservative , sorbitan tristearate , sorbitol and purified water .
May contain hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide to adjust pH . Questions : In the U . S . call 1 - 800 - 757 - 9195 alcon . medinfo @ alcon . com www . systane . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Systane ® LUBRICANT EYE DROPS BALANCE Restoring Dry Eye Relief Locks in moisture Tear evaporation protection Clinically proven DOCTOR RECOMMENDED # 1 BRAND1 Alcon STERILE 10 mL ( 1 / 3 FL OZ ) LOT : EXP . : SIDE PANEL TAMPER EVIDENT : For your protection , this bottle has an imprinted seal around the neck .
Do not use if seal is damaged or missing at time of purchase .
www . alconpatents . com Made in USA from domestic and imported materials Systane ® BALANCE Lubricant Eye Drops restores the natural tear ’ s lipid layer to lock in moisture and protect against tear evaporation .
ACTUAL SIZE Alcon Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
Fort Worth , TX 76134 USA 1 Based on a survey of eye care professionals .
Data on file .
300048644 - 0521 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
