Rx only DESCRIPTION Each mL of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % contains 100 mg of sulfacetamide sodium in a vehicle consisting of purified water , propylene glycol , lauramide DEA ( and ) diethanolamine , polyethylene glycol 400 monolaurate , hydroxyethyl cellulose , sodium chloride , sodium metabisulfite , methylparaben , xanthan gum , EDTA and simethicone .
Sulfacetamide sodium is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity .
Chemically sulfacetamide sodium is N ' - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , based on sulfonamides acting as a competitive inhibitor of para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) utilization , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin in humans has not been determined , in vitro studies with human cadaver skin indicated a percutaneous absorption of about 4 % .
Sulfacetamide sodium is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has been reported to be between 7 to 13 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % is indicated in the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % is contraindicated for use by patients having a known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides or any other component of this preparation ( see WARNINGS section ) .
WARNINGS Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered , irrespective of the route of administration .
Sensitivity reactions have been reported in individuals with no prior history of sulfonamide hypersensitivity .
At the first sign of hypersensitivity , skin rash or other reactions , discontinue use of this preparation ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS section ) .
Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than non - asthmatic people ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS section ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : For external use only .
Keep away from eyes .
If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Hypersensitivity reactions may occur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration , and cross - sensitivity between different sulfonamides may occur .
Sulfacetamide sodium can cause reddening and scaling of the skin .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of involved skin to be treated are denuded or abraded .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy - Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % .
It is also not known whether Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Kernicterus may occur in the newborn as a result of treatment of a pregnant woman at term with orally administered sulfonamide .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % in pregnant women , and it is not known whether topically applied sulfonamides can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether sulfacetamide sodium is excreted in the human milk following topical use of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % .
Systemically administered sulfonamides are capable of producing kernicterus in the infants of lactating women .
Small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised in prescribing for nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials for the management of acne vulgaris , the occurrence of adverse reactions associated with the use of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % was infrequent and restricted to local events .
The total incidence of adverse reactions reported in these studies was less than 2 % .
Only one of 105 patients treated with Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % had local adverse reactions of erythema , itching and edema .
It has been reported that sulfacetamide sodium may cause local irritation , stinging and burning .
While the irritation may be transient , occasionally , the use of the medication has to be discontinued .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to affected areas twice daily .
HOW SUPPLIED Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % , is supplied in 118 mL bottles NDC 54868 - 6225 - 0 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Shake well before using .
Keep tightly closed .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
MELVILLE , NEW YORK 11747 I2382A R11 / 07 # 280 Relabeling of " Additional " barcode label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 118 mL ( 4 fl oz ) SULFACETAMIDE SODIUM TOPICAL SUSPENSION USP , 10 % USUAL DOSAGE : Shake well before using .
Apply a thin film to the affected areas twice daily .
See package insert for full prescribing information .
WARNING : Keep away from eyes .
For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Keep tightly closed .
Each mL of Sulfacetamide Sodium Topical Suspension USP , 10 % contains 100 mg of sulfacetamide sodium in a vehicle consisting of purified water , propylene glycol , lauramide DEA ( and ) diethanolamine , polyethylene glycol 400 monolaurate , hydroxyethyl cellulose , sodium chloride , sodium metabisulfite , methylparaben , xanthan gum , EDTA and simethicone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] SULFACETAMIDE SODIUM TOPICAL SUSPENSION USP , 10 % Rx only 118 mL ( 4 fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
