NeutraCaine ( Calcium Phosphate Rinse with Benzocaine ) Drug Facts Active Ingredients ( in each packet ) Benzocaine hydrochloride 90 mg ( 3 mg / ml ) Purpose Analgesic Uses For temporary relief of inflammation and pain in the oral cavity : * mouth * tongue * cheeks Warnings This product contains benzocaine .
The use of benzocaine applied to the mouth or gums has been associated with methemoglobinemia ( a condition where the amount of oxygen in the blood stream is reduced ) .
Stop using immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms and seek medical attention : • Pale , gray or blue colored skin , lips , or nail beds • Headache or lightheadedness Ask a doctor if : • Sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • Irritation , pain or swelling persists or worsens When using this product : • NeutraCaine ® must be mixed with water before use • NeutraCaine ® rinse should not be swallowed • NeutraCaine ® rinse should be spit out after use If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , immediately call Poison Control Center or doctor .
Directions Dissolve one packet of NeutraCaine ® in a clean glass of 30 mL ( 1 ounce ) of tap water .
Distilled , bottled or purified water can also be used .
Use immediately after the solution appears clear or nearly clear in the glass , or in about 15 seconds .
Stir if necessary ( 1 ) Swish 1 / 2 the solution in the mouth for 1 min and spit out .
( 2 ) Repeat with the remaining 1 / 2 of the solution and spit out Adults and children 12 years and over Use NeutraCaine up to 4 times per day , as needed ; Do not exceed recommended dosage Children under 12 years of age Use NeutraCaine up to 4 times per day , as needed ; Should be supervised by an adult ; Do not exceed recommended dosage Children under 2 years Ask a doctor or dentist DO NOT USE FOR MORE THAN 7 DAYS UNLESS DIRECTED BY PHYSICIAN Other information • Store at room temperature ■ Avoid excessive heat or moisture • Do not use if foil packet is opened or shows signs of leakage or damage Inactive ingredients Calcium Chloride , Sodium Phosphate , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Bicarbonate , Cherry Flavoring Manufactured for Invado Pharmaceuticals , LLC Pomono , NY 10970 Made in Canada www . NeutraCaine . com Patents Pending UPC Code 793573756282 Package / Label Principal Display Panel NDC 49939 - 201 - 01 NeutraCaine ( Calcium Phosphate Rinse with Benzocaine ) For relief of oral mucocitis pain Mix with water before use 30 Packets Dissolving Powder 491 mg per packet | Net wt . 14 . 73 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
