Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Use for the temporary relief of pain due to : • toothaches • canker sores • cold sores • sore gums Warnings METHEMOGLOBINEMIA WARNING : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
Do not use • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not exceed recommended dosage • do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a doctor / dentist Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions dip applicator into liquid Adults and children 2 years and older Apply a small amount of product to the affected area .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children between 2 and 12 years Should be supervised in the use of this product .
Children under 2 years Do not use .
Other information • for toothaches , use only as a temporary remedy until a dentist can be seen • store at 20 - 25 ⁰ C ( 68 - 77 ⁰ F ) .
Inactive ingredients Peppermint Oil , Polyethylene Glycol 400 , Spearmint Oil , Sucralose PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL DenTek ™ INSTANT PAIN RELIEF Benzocaine 20 % / ORAL ANESTHETIC 1 BOTTLE OF BENZOCAINE 0 . 118 fl oz ( 3 . 5 mL ) , 1 CASE , 50 APPLICATORS , 1 HANDLE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
