Rx Only FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin topical powder is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin topical powder contains 100 , 000 USP nystatin units per gram dispersed in talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Trichophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin topical powder is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
Nystatin topical powder is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin topical powder is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin topical powder should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out other infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENT Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : • The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
• Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
• If symptoms or irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin topical preparation .
It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin topical powder should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mother It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Geriatric Use Clinical studies with nystatin topical powder did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using nystatin topical powder is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Very moist lesions are best treated with the topical dusting powder .
Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) Apply to candidal lesions two or three times daily until healing is complete .
For fungal infections of the feet caused by Candida species , the powder should be dusted on the feet , as well as , in all foot wear .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin topical powder , USP is supplied as 100 , 000 units nystatin per gram in plastic squeeze bottles : 15 g ( NDC 68382 - 370 - 01 ) 30 g ( NDC 68382 - 370 - 02 ) 60 g ( NDC 68382 - 370 - 03 ) STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] ; avoid excessive heat ( 40 ° C / 104 ° F ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Manufactured By : Nesher Pharmaceuticals USA LLC Bridgeton , MO 63044 Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 P10255 - 1 01 / 2016 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68382 - 370 - 01 Nystatin Topical Powder , USP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY 100 , 000 units per gram Rx Only 15 GRAMS Zydus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68382 - 370 - 02 Nystatin Topical Powder , USP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY 100 , 000 units per gram Rx Only 30 GRAMS Zydus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68382 - 370 - 03 Nystatin Topical Powder , USP FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY 100 , 000 units per gram Rx Only 60 GRAMS Zydus [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
