1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefazolin injection is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated for : • • Treatment of the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms in adult and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved : ( 1 ) • οRespiratory tract infections ( 1 . 1 ) ; • οUrinary tract infections ( 1 . 2 ) ; • οSkin and skin structure infections ( 1 . 3 ) ; • οBiliary tract infections ( 1 . 4 ) ; • οBone and joint infections ( 1 . 5 ) ; • οGenital infections ( 1 . 6 ) ; • οSepticemia ( 1 . 7 ) ; • οEndocarditis ( 1 . 8 ) • • Perioperative prophylaxis in adults for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved ( 1 . 9 ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefazolin injection and other antibacterial drugs , cefazolin injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
( 1 . 10 ) .
1 . 1 Respiratory Tract Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Limitations of Use Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections , including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin injection is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of cefazolin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available .
1 . 2 Urinary Tract Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of urinary tract infections due to Escherichia coli , and Proteus mirabilis in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 3 Skin and Skin Structure Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of skin and skin structure infections due to S . aureus , S . pyogenes , and Streptococcus agalactiae in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 4 Biliary Tract Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of biliary infections due to E . coli , various isolates of streptococci , P . mirabilis , and S . aureus in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 5 Bone and Joint Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of bone and joint infections due to S . aureus in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 6 Genital Infections Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of genital infections due to E . coli , and P . mirabilis in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 7 Septicemia Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of septicemia due to S . pneumoniae , S . aureus , P . mirabilis , and E . coli in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 8 Endocarditis Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of endocarditis due to S . aureus and S . pyogenes in adults and pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 9 Perioperative Prophylaxis Cefazolin injection is indicated is indicated for perioperative prophylaxis in adults for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 , 2 . 5 ) .
The perioperative use of cefazolin injection is indicated in adult surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
The prophylactic administration of cefazolin injection preoperatively , intraoperatively , and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy , and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those older than 70 years , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice , or common duct bile stones ) .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
1 . 10 Usage To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefazolin injection and other antibacterial drugs , cefazolin injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If a dose of cefazolin injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended for use and as an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
( 2 . 1 ) For intravenous use only over approximately 30 minutes .
( 2 ) Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CLcr Greater Than or Equal To 55 m L / min .
( 2 . 1 ) Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) [ 1 ] 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours Perioperative prophylaxis 1 gram to 2 grams ½ to 1 hour prior to start of surgery 500 mg to 1 gram during surgery for lengthy procedures 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively [ 1 ] In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
• Recommended Dosing Schedule in Pediatric Patients with CLcr Greater than or Equal to 70 mL / min .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , and 2 . 3 ) • Site and Type of Infection • Dose • Frequency • Moderate to severe infections [ 1 ] • 25 to 50 mg per kg • divided into 3 or 4 equal doses • Severe infections null • May increase to 100 mg • per kg • divided into 3 or 4 equal doses [ 1 ] For the treatment indications ( 1 . 1 to 1 . 8 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions If a dose of cefazolin injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended for use and as an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
Administer cefazolin injection intravenously over approximately 30 minutes .
2 . 2 Dosage for the Treatment of Infections Dosage for the Treatment of Infections in Adults with Creatinine Clearance ( CLcr ) Equal to 55 mL / min or Greater The recommended adult dosages for the treatment of infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 to 1 . 8 ) ] are outlined in Table 1 below .
Administer cefazolin injection intravenously over approximately 30 minutes .
Table 1 : Recommended Dosing Schedule in Adult Patients with CLcr Greater Than or Equal To 55 mL / min [ 1 ] .
Site and Type of Infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to 1 gram every 6 to 8 hours Mild infections caused by susceptible gram - positive cocci 250 mg to 500 mg every 8 hours Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , endocarditis , septicemia ) [ 2 ] 1 gram to 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours [ 1 ] If a dose of cefazolin Injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended for use and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
[ 2 ] In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Dosage for the Treatment of Infections in Pediatric Patients with CLcr Equal to 70 mL / min or Greater The recommended pediatric dosages for the treatment of infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 to 1 . 8 ) ] are outlined in Table 2 below .
Administer cefazolin injection intravenously over approximately 30 minutes .
If a dose of cefazolin injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended for use and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Table 2 : Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients with CLcr 70 mL / min or greater for Treatment of Infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 to 1 . 8 ) ] Type of Severity Recommended Total Daily Dosage Mild to moderate infections 25 mg / kg to 50 mg / kg , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses Severe infections May increase to 100 mg / kg , divided into 3 or 4 equal doses 2 . 3 Dosage for Perioperative Prophylaxis • Dosage for Perioperative Prophylaxis in Adults with CLcr Equal to 55 mL / min or Greater • To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended dosages are described in Table 3 below .
Table 3 : Recommended Dosage for Perioperative Prophylaxis in Adults with CLcr of 55 mL / min or Greater • Dose administered ½ hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery • Additional dose during lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) • Dose for 24 hours postoperatively • 1 g • 2 g • 500 mg to 1 g • 500 mg to 1 g every • 6 hours to 8 hours • If a dose of cefazolin injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
• It is important that ( i ) the preoperative dose be given just prior ( 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour ) to the start of surgery so that adequate antibacterial concentrations are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( ii ) cefazolin be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient concentrations of the antibacterial drug at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
• The perioperative prophylactic administration of cefazolin should usually be discontinued within a 24 - hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
• Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
2 . 4 Dosage Recommendations in Adult and Pediatric Patients with Renal Impairment • Dosage Recommendations in Adult Patients with CLcr less than 55 mL / min • The dosage recommendation for cefazolin injection in adult patients with renal impairment ( CLcr less than 55 mL / min ) is outlined in Table 5 below .
Table 5 : Dosage Recommendation for Adult Patients with CLcr less than 55 mL / min • Creatinine Clearance • Dose • Frequency • 35 to 54 mL / min • Recommended dose • every 8 hours or longer • 11 to 34 mL / min • Half of recommended dose [ 1 ] • every 12 hours • 10 mL / min or less • Half of recommended dose null • every 18 to 24 hours [ 1 ] If the recommended dose in adult patients with creatinine clearance equal to 35 mL / min or greater is 1 gram , then this product is not recommended for use in patients with creatinine clearance less than 35 mL / min and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
Dosage Recommendations in Pediatric Patients with CLcr less than 70 mL / min • The dosage recommendation for cefazolin injection in pediatric patients with renal impairment ( CLcr less than 70 mL / min ) is outlined in Table 6 below .
Table 6 : Recommended Dosage in Pediatric Patients with CLcr less than 70 mL / min • Creatinine • Clearance • Recommended Dosage • 40 to 70 mL / min • 60 % of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours • 20 to 40 mL / min • 25 % of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours • 5 to 20 mL / min • 10 % of the normal daily dose every 24 hours * If a dose of cefazolin injection is required that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams , this product is not recommended for use and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered .
2 . 5 Preparation for Use of Cefazolin Injection Thawing of Plastic Container • • Thaw frozen container at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Product should not be thawed by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation .
Do not force thaw .
• • No further dilution is necessary .
• • Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are detected , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
• • Do not add supplementary medication .
• • The container should be visually inspected .
If the outlet port protector is damaged , detached , or not present , discard container as solution path sterility may be impaired .
Components of the solution may precipitate in the frozen state and will dissolve upon reaching room temperature with little or no agitation .
Potency is not affected .
Agitate after solution has reached room temperature .
If after visual inspection the solution remains cloudy or if an insoluble precipitate is noted or if any seals are not intact , the container should be discarded .
• • The thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration ( 5 ° C / 41 ° F ) or 48 hours at 25 ° C / 77 ° F . Do not refreeze thawed antibacterial drugs .
Preparation for Administration • • Suspend container from support .
• • Remove protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
• • Attach Intravenous administration set to outlet port .
Refer to the manufacturer ’ s instructions accompanying the administration set for complete directions .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 1 gram cefazolin per 50 mL or 2 gram cefazolin per 100 mL in a single - dose GALAXY Container supplied as a frozen , premixed , iso - osmotic , sterile , nonpyrogenic solution .
• • 1 gram in 50 mL and 2 grams in 100 mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to cefazolin or other cephalosporin class antibacterial drugs , penicillins , or other beta - lactams ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity to Cefazolin or the Cephalosporin Class of Antibacterial Drugs , Penicillins , or Other Beta - lactams Cefazolin injection is contraindicated in patients who have a history of immediate hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , serious skin reactions ) to cefazolin or the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs , penicillins , or other beta - lactams [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Hypersensitivity reactions : Cross - hypersensitivity may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction occurs , discontinue the drug .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) : May range from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Evaluate if diarrhea occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions to Cefazolin , Cephalosporins , Penicillins , or Other Beta - lactams Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients receiving beta - lactam antibacterial drugs .
Before therapy with cefazolin injection is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous immediate hypersensitivity reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins , or carbapenems .
Exercise caution if this product is to be given to penicillin - sensitive patients because cross - hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibacterial drugs has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to cefazolin injection occurs , discontinue the drug .
5 . 2 Seizures in Patients with Renal Impairment Seizures may occur with the administration of cefazolin injection , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage is not reduced appropriately .
Discontinue cefazolin injection if seizures occur or make appropriate dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Anticonvulsant therapy should be continued in patients with known seizure disorders .
5 . 3 Clostridioides difficile - associated Diarrhea Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial drug use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial drug use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial drug treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity to Dextrose - containing Products Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported with administration of dextrose - containing products .
These reactions have been reported in patients receiving high concentrations of dextrose ( i . e . 50 % dextrose ) 1 .
The reactions have also been reported when corn - derived dextrose solutions were administered to patients with or without a history of hypersensitivity to corn products . 2 5 . 5 Risk of Development of Drug - resistant Bacteria Prescribing cefazolin injection in the absence of proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
As with other antimicrobials , prolonged use of cefazolin injection may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible microorganisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ' s condition is essential .
Should superinfection occur during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
5 . 6 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Urinary Glucose The administration of cefazolin may result in a false - positive reaction with glucose in the urine when using glucose tests based on Benedict ’ s copper reduction reaction that determine the amount of reducing substances like glucose in the urine .
It is recommended that glucose tests based on enzymatic glucose oxidase be used .
Coombs ’ Test Positive direct Coombs ' tests have been reported during treatment with cefazolin .
In hematologic studies or in transfusion cross - matching procedures when antiglobulin tests are performed on the minor side or in Coombs ' testing of newborns whose mothers have received cephalosporin antibacterial drugs before parturition , it should be recognized that a positive Coombs ' test may be due to the drug .
5 . 7 Patients with Overt or Known Subclinical Diabetes Mellitus or Carbohydrate Intolerance As with other dextrose - containing solutions , cefazolin injection should be prescribed with caution in patients with overt or known subclinical diabetes mellitus or carbohydrate intolerance for any reason .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions to cefazolin injection are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Seizures in Patients with Renal Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Clostridioides difficile - associated diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adult and Pediatric Patients : Most common adverse reactions : gastrointestinal ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) , and allergic reactions ( anaphylaxis , urticaria , skin rash ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Baxter Healthcare at 1 - 866 - 888 - 2472 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions were reported from clinical trials : Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , mouth ulcers , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , epigastric pain , heartburn , flatus , anorexia and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Allergic : Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , urticaria , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic : Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic : Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT , and alkaline phosphatase levels has been observed .
Reports of hepatitis have been received .
Renal : Reports of increased BUN and creatinine levels , as well as renal failure , have been received .
Local Reactions : Instances of phlebitis have been reported at site of injection .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions : Pruritus ( including genital , vulvar and anal pruritus , genital moniliasis , and vaginitis ) .
Dizziness , fainting , lightheadedness , confusion , weakness , tiredness , hypotension , somnolence and headache .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of cefazolin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune system disorders : Serum sickness - like reaction Renal and urinary disorders : Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis ( ATIN ) Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) 6 . 3 Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefazolin , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibacterials : Stevens - Johnson syndrome , erythema multiforme , toxic epidermal necrolysis , renal impairment , toxic nephropathy , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage , hepatic impairment including cholestasis , and pancytopenia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS The renal excretion of cefazolin is inhibited by probenecid .
Co - administration of probenecid with cefazolin injection is not recommended .
Probenecid : The renal excretion of cefazolin is inhibited by probenecid .
Co - administration of probenecid with cefazolin injection is not recommended .
( 7 ) Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published prospective cohort studies , case series and case reports over several decades with cephalosporin use , including cefazolin , in pregnant women have not established a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Cefazolin crosses the placenta .
Animal reproduction studies with rats , mice and rabbits administered cefazolin during organogenesis at doses 1 to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) did not demonstrate adverse developmental outcomes .
In rats subcutaneously administered cefazolin prior to delivery and throughout lactation , there were no adverse effects on offspring at a dose approximately 2 times the MRHD ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data While available studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk , published data from case - control studies and case reports over several decades have not identified an association with cephalosporin use during pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Available studies have methodologic limitations , including small sample size , retrospective data collection , and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice and rabbits administered cefazolin during organogenesis at doses of 2000 , 4000 and 240 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area comparison ) .
There was no evidence of any adverse effects on embryofetal development due to cefazolin .
In a peri ‑ postnatal study in rats , cefazolin administered subcutaneously up to 1200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 times the MRHD based on body surface area comparison ) to pregnant dams prior to delivery and through lactation caused no adverse effects on offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Data from published literature report that cefazolin is present in human milk , but is not expected to accumulate in a breastfed infant .
There are no data on the effects of cefazolin on the breastfed child or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for cefazolin injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from cefazolin injection or from the mother ’ s underlying condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Cefazolin injection is indicated for the treatment of respiratory tract infections , urinary tract infections , skin and skin structure infections , biliary tract infections , bone and joint infections , genital infections , septicemia , and endocarditis in pediatric patients for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 to 1 . 8 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness of cefazolin injection in premature infants and neonates have not been established and is not recommended for use in this age group of pediatric patients .
Dosing for cefazolin in pediatric patients younger than one month old has not been established .
Because of the limitations of the available strengths and administration requirements ( i . e . , administration of fractional doses is not recommended ) of cefazolin injection , and to avoid unintentional overdose , this product is not recommended for use if a dose of cefazolin injection that does not equal 1 gram or 2 grams is required and an alternative formulation of cefazolin should be considered [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 , 3 , 2 . 4 and 2 . 5 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of cefazolin injection for perioperative prophylaxis have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 10 years old .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 920 subjects who received cefazolin in clinical studies , 313 ( 34 % ) were 65 years and over , while 138 ( 15 % ) were 75 years and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment When cefazolin injection is administered to adult and pediatric patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function ( creatinine clearance less than 55 mL / min and 70 mL / min for adults and pediatric patients , respectively ) , lower daily dosage is required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Accidental overdosage resulting in seizures may occur in patients with renal impairment who receive doses greater than the recommended dosage of cefazolin injection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
If seizures associated with accidental overdosage occur , discontinue cefazolin injection and give supportive treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Cefazolin injection is a frozen , premixed , iso - osmotic , sterile , nonpyrogenic , single - dose solution containing either 1 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 1 . 05 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP per 50 mL or 2 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 2 . 10 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP per 100 mL GALAXY container ( PL 2040 Plastic ) .
Dextrose , USP has been added to adjust osmolality ( 4 % as dextrose hydrous ) .
The approximate osmolality for cefazolin injection is 290 mOsmol / kg .
Cefazolin Sodium is a semi - synthetic cephalosporin antibacterial for parenteral administration and has the following IUPAC nomenclature : Sodium ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 3 - [ [ ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] methyl ] - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido ] - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylate .
Its molecular formula is C14H13N8O4S3 · Na and its molecular weight is 454 . 51 ( free acid ) .
Cefazolin Sodium USP has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The sodium content is 48 mg / g of cefazolin sodium .
The pH of cefazolin injection may have been adjusted with sodium bicarbonate , or sodium hydroxide / hydrochloric acid during manufacture .
Water for injection , USP is added as drug vehicle .
Contains no preservative .
The solution is intended for intravenous use after thawing to room temperature .
This GALAXY container ( PL 2040 Plastic ) is fabricated from a specially designed multilayer plastic ( PL 2040 ) .
Solutions are in contact with the polyethylene layer of this container and can leach out certain chemical components of the plastic in very small amounts within the expiration period .
However , the suitability of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to the USP biological tests for plastic containers , as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is an antibacterial drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic relationship for cefazolin has not been evaluated in patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for cefazolin is approximately 1 . 8 hours following IV administration .
In a study of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) , cefazolin serum concentrations at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of cefazolin in healthy volunteers ( N = 12 ) following a single 15 - minute IV infusion of 2 grams of cefazolin injection are summarized in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Mean ( Standard Deviation ) Plasma Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Cefazolin in Healthy Volunteers N Cmax ( mcg / mL ) Tmax [ 1 ] ( h ) AUC0 - inf ( mcg * h / mL ) T1 / 2 ( h ) CL ( L / h ) Vz ( L ) Single 2 grams Dose as a 15 - Minute IV Infusion 12 280 . 9 ( 45 . 9 ) 0 . 25 ( 0 . 25 - 0 . 33 ) 509 . 9 ( 89 . 3 ) 2 . 01 ( 0 . 28 ) 4 . 03 ( 0 . 68 ) 11 . 50 ( 1 . 53 ) [ 1 ] Tmax reported as median ( range ) N = number of subjects observed ; Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; Tmax = time to maximum plasma concentration ; AUC0 - inf = area under the plasma concentration - time curve extrapolated to infinity ; t1 / 2 = apparent plasma terminal elimination half - life ; CL = total clearance ; Vz = volume of distribution Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that cefazolin produces mean peak serum concentrations approximately equivalent to those seen in healthy volunteers .
Bile concentrations in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum concentrations by up to five times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile concentrations of cefazolin are considerably lower than serum concentrations ( less than 1 . 0 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the cefazolin concentration becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of cefazolin across the placenta .
Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION AND DEXTROSE INJECTION .
However , due to B . Braun Medical Inc . ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that information .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cefazolin is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Resistance Predominant mechanisms of bacterial resistance to cephalosporins include the presence of extended - spectrum beta - lactamases and enzymatic hydrolysis .
Antimicrobial Activity Cefazolin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) section .
• Gram - Positive Bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus • Staphylococcus epidermidis • Streptococcus agalactiae • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin .
• Gram - Negative Bacteria • Escherichia coli • Proteus mirabilis Most isolates of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter spp . , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri , Serratia spp . , and Pseudomonas spp .
are resistant to cefazolin .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria , and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : http : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of cefazolin injection have not been performed .
Impairment of Fertility Fertility studies conducted in rats subcutaneously administered cefazolin at doses of 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparison ) showed no impairment of mating and fertility .
15 REFERENCES • 1 .
Czarny D , Prichard PJ , Fennessy M , Lewis S . Anaphylactoid reaction to 50 % solution of dextrose .
Med J Aust 1980 ; 2 : 255 - 258 .
• 2 .
Guharoy , SR , Barajas M . Probably Anaphylactic Reaction to Corn - Derived Dextrose Solution .
Vet Hum Toxicol 1991 ; 33 : 609 - 610 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING • Cefazolin injection is supplied as a premixed frozen iso - osmotic solution in 50 mL or 100 mL single - dose GALAXY plastic containers as follows : • Code • Product Description • NDC Number • 2G3503 • 1 gram cefazolin in 50 mL • Supplied as 24 bags per carton • NDC 0338 - 3503 - 41 • 2G3508 • 2 grams cefazolin in 100 mL • Supplied as 12 bags per carton • NDC 0338 - 3508 - 41 Store in a freezer capable of maintaining a temperature of - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) or below [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Serious Allergic Reactions Advise patients that allergic reactions , including serious allergic reactions could occur and that serious reactions require immediate treatment and discontinuation of cefazolin injection .
Patients should report to their health care provider any previous allergic reactions to cefazolin , cephalosporins , penicillins , or other similar antibacterials .
Seizures Advise patients that seizures could occur with cefazolin injection .
Instruct patients to inform a healthcare provider at once of any signs and symptoms of seizures , for immediate treatment , dosage adjustment , or discontinuation of cefazolin injection .
Diarrhea Advise patients that diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibacterials , which usually ends when the antibacterial is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibacterials , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibacterials .
If this occurs , patients should contact a physician as soon as possible .
Antibacterial Resistance Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including cefazolin injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefazolin injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefazolin injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Any other trademarks , product brands or images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners .
Baxter Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 Made in USA 07 - 19 - 03 - 485 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0338 - 3508 - 41 Cefazolin Injection , USP 2 g / 100 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) GALAXY Single - Dose Container Discard unused portion Code 2G3508 Sterile Nonpyrogenic Iso - osmotic Each 100 mL contains : 2 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 2 . 10 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP with approx .
4 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality , and Water for Injection , USP .
pH may have been adjusted with sodium bicarbonate , or sodium hydroxide / hydrochloric acid .
Dosage : For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See prescribing information .
Caution : Do not add supplemental medication or additives .
Rx only Store at or below - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Thaw at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
Product should not be thawed by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation .
Do not force thaw .
Thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
Do not refreeze .
Baxter Logo PL 2040 Plastic Baxter and Galaxy are trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Manufactured by Baxter Healthcare Corporation , Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in USA 07 - 34 - 00 - 0357 BAR CODE POSITION ONLY UPC - A 303383508416 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Thaw at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 49 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
Do not refreeze .
Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 04 - 00 - 0112 Cegazolin Injection , USP 2 g / 100 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) Contains 6 units of Single - Dose bags .
Each bag contains 100 mL .
Iso - osmotic Store at or below - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Rx only NDC 0338 - 3508 - 41 Code 2G3508 * FOR BAR CODE POSITION ONLY ( 01 ) 20303383508410 GALAXY Container Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 100 mL contains : 2 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 2 . 10 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP with approx .
4 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality , and Water for Injection , USP .
pH may have been adjusted with sodium bicarbonate , or sodium hydroxide / hydrochloric acid .
Dosage : For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See prescribing information .
Caution : Do not add supplemental medication or additives .
Baxter Logo Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation , Deerfield , IL 60015 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] CODE : 2G3508 LOT : XXXXXXXXX EXP : DD MMM YY QTY : QQ SN : ######### CODE : 2G3508 LOT : XXXXXXXXX EXP : DD MMM YY QTY : QQ SN : ######### FOR PLACEMENT ONLY .
( 01 ) X XXXXXXX XXXXX X ( 21 ) XXXXXXXXX ( 17 ) XXXXX ( 10 ) XXXXXXXXX FOR PLACEMENT ONLY .
( 01 ) X XXXXXXX XXXXX X ( 21 ) XXXXXXXXX ( 17 ) XXXXX ( 10 ) XXXXXXXXX 07 - 06 - 77 - 681 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Baxter Logo Cefazolin Injection , USP 1 g / 50 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) GALAXY Single Dose Container Discard unused portion NDC 0338 - 3503 - 41 Code 2G3503 Sterile Nonpyrogenic Iso - osmotic Each 50 mL contains : 1 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 1 . 05 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP with approx .
2 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality .
pH may have been adjusted with sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydroxide / hydrochloric acid .
Usual Dosage : For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See prescribing information .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medication or additives .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks and solution clarity .
See prescribing information .
Rx only Store at or below - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Thaw at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
Do not refreeze .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
Manufactured by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Made in USA PL2040 Plastic 07 - 34 - 00 - 0356 * BAR CODE POSITION ONLY 303383503411 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Thaw at room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) or under refrigeration 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 41 ° F ) .
DO NOT FORCE THAW BY IMMERSION IN WATER BATHS OR BY MICROWAVE IRRADIATION .
Thawed solution is stable for 30 days under refrigeration or 48 hours at room temperature .
Do not refreeze .
Handle frozen product containers with care .
Product containers may be fragile in the frozen state .
Baxter and Galaxy are registered trademarks of Baxter International Inc .
PL 2040 Plastic 07 - 04 - 00 - 0111 Baxter Logo Cefazolin Injection , USP 12 - 50 mL Single Dose Containers Iso - osmotic Store at or below - 20 ° C / - 4 ° F . Do not refreeze .
1 g / 50 mL ( 20 mg / mL ) Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA NDC 0338 - 3503 - 41 Code 2G3503 * FOR BAR CODE POSITION ONLY ( 01 ) 20303383503415 GALAXY Container Sterile Nonpyrogenic Each 50 mL contains : 1 g Cefazolin , USP , equivalent to 1 . 05 g Cefazolin Sodium , USP with approx .
2 g Dextrose Hydrous , USP added to adjust osmolality .
pH may have been adjusted with sodium bicarbonate or sodium hydroxide / hydrochloric acid .
Usual Dosage : For Intravenous Infusion Only .
See prescribing information .
Cautions : Do not add supplementary medications or additives .
Must not be used in series connections .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing thawed bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard bag as sterility may be impaired .
Do not use unless solution is clear .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] CODE : 2G3503 LOT : XXXXXXXXX EXP : DD MMM YY QTY : QQ SN : ######### FOR PLACEMENT ONLY .
• ( 01 ) X XXXXXXX XXXXX X ( 21 ) XXXXXXXXX ( 17 ) XXXXXX ( 10 ) XXXXXXXXX 07 - 06 - 77 - 680 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
