Active ingredients Camphor 3 . 1 % Menthol 6 . 0 % Methyl salicylate 10 . 0 % Purpose Topical analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • arthritis • simple backache • muscle strains • muscle sprains and bruises Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : If prone to allergic reaction from aspirin or salicylates , consult a doctor before use .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product • Do not use otherwise than as directed When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes , mucous membranes , or rashes • do not bandage tightly • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Dispose of used patch away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash , itching , or excessive skin irritation develops • conditions worsen • symptoms last for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • clean and dry affected area • remove patch from film • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • Do not use for more than 8 hours .
• Discard patch after single use .
Reseal pouch after opening .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect for excessive moisture .
Inactive ingredients hydrogenated poly , pentaerythrityl tetra - di - t - butyl hydroxyhydrocinnamate , petroleum , styrene / isoprene copolymer .
Equate Pain Relief Patch Camphor / Menthol / Salicylate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
