MORPHINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Morphine is a tertiary nitrogen base containing a phenanthrene nucleus ; it has two hydroxyl groups , one phenolic and the other alcoholic ( secondary ) .
The sulfate salt occurs as white , feathery , silky crystals , cubical masses of crystals , or white , crystalline powder .
The chemical name of morphine sulfate is 7 , 8 - didehydro - 4 , 5 - epoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 3 , 6 - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , pentahydrate .
The molecular formula is ( C17H19NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • 5H2O , and the structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Morphine Sulfate Injection USP , is a sterile solution of morphine sulfate pentahydrate in Water for Injection , USP .
Disodium edetate ( 0 . 075 % ) and sodium bisulfite ( 0 . 1 % ) have been added as stabilizer and antioxidant , respectively .
It is available in the following concentration of morphine sulfate per mL : 1 mg .
( See HOW SUPPLIED ) .
This product contains no bacteriostat or antimicrobial agents and is intended as a single dose unit .
When the dosing requirement is completed , the unused portion should be discarded in an appropriate manner .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Morphine is the principal narcotic alkaloid of opium , from which it differs somewhat in its mode of action .
Its effects are remarkably diverse and include analgesia , drowsiness , changes in mood , mental clouding , respiratory depression , decreased gastrointestinal motility , nausea , vomiting , and alterations of the endocrine and autonomic nervous systems .
Its most important actions are on the brain , especially its higher functions .
An initial transitory stimulation is followed by depression of the brain , its higher functions and medullary centers .
Other actions include depression of the cough center , release of antidiuretic hormone , pupillary constriction , increase in biliary tract pressure , sedation with muscle relaxation , decreased physical activity , lassitude , increased tone of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts , mild vasodilation , and an increased amplitude of ureteral contractions .
Opioids act as agonists , interacting with stereospecific and saturable binding sites or receptors in the brain and other tissues .
Morphine is about two - thirds absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with the maximum analgesic effect occurring 60 minutes post administration .
Onset of analgesia following intramuscular or subcutaneous administration occurs within 10 to 30 minutes .
The effect persists for 4 to 5 hours .
Approximately 90 % of a parenteral dose of morphine appears in the urine within 24 hours as the product of glucuronide conjugation .
Most of the remainder is excreted in the bile and eliminated in the feces .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate is indicated for the relief of severe pain .
It is used preoperatively to sedate the patient and allay apprehension , facilitate anesthesia induction and reduce anesthetic dosage .
It is likewise effective in the control of postoperative pain .
The use of morphine for the relief of pain should be reserved for the more severe manifestations of pain , as in myocardial infarction , severe injuries , or in severe chronic pain associated with terminal cancer after all non - narcotic analgesics have failed .
Effective analgesic therapy of severe chronic pain associated with terminal cancer continues to be a difficult problem .
Intermittent administration of intramuscular morphine may be effective ; however , the mode of therapy has significant limitations .
Morphine has a short plasma half - life of 2 . 5 to 3 . 0 hours ; therefore , frequent administration ( every 1 to 2 hours ) often becomes necessary to control severe pain associated with cancer .
Tolerance develops to the analgesic effects and increasingly higher doses of morphine are required to produce analgesia .
The higher morphine doses produce significant and often life - threatening side effects ( see “ ADVERSE REACTIONS ” ) .
The peak and trough effects produced by intermittent administration cause fluctuations in pain control .
Repeated I . M . injections are frequently unacceptable due to the lack of muscle mass in the debilitated patient , the tendency for bruising and bleeding at the injection site , and the anxiety and pain associated with the injection .
Continuous I . V . infusion of morphine ( see “ DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ” ) has been employed as an alternative to the traditional modes of administration .
Lower doses of morphine produce uniform pain control because a steady morphine concentration is maintained .
Titration of the dosage to the patient ’ s needs is easily achieved by adjusting the infusion rate .
The lag time between the patient ’ s request for pain medication and administration of the dose and the amount of nursing time necessary for preparation and administration of frequent doses are reduced .
The degree of respiratory depression and sedation may be decreased , and the anxiety experienced by the patient in anticipation of I . M . administration is avoided .
Some investigators feel that tolerance to the analgesic effects may develop more slowly with continuous I . V . infusion .
In addition to analgesia , the drug may relieve anxiety and reduce left ventricular work by reducing preload pressure .
Morphine is also used in the therapy of dyspnea associated with acute left ventricular failure and pulmonary edema .
Care must be taken to avoid inducing respiratory depression in such patients .
For open - heart surgery , especially in high risk patients with cardiac disease , some anesthesiologists use morphine to produce anesthesia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity ( allergy ) to morphine sulfate is one of the contraindications to its use .
Because of its stimulating effect on the spinal cord , morphine should not be used in convulsive states , such as those occurring in status epilepticus , tetanus , and strychnine poisoning .
Morphine is also contraindicated in the following conditions : respiratory insufficiency or depression ; bronchial asthma ; heart failure secondary to chronic lung disease ; cardiac arrhythmias ; increased intracranial or cerebrospinal pressure ; head injuries ; brain tumor ; acute alcoholism ; and delirium tremens .
WARNINGS Contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Morphine is a potent medicinal agent of great utility but also with considerable potential for harmful effect , including psychological and physical tolerance and dependence .
Withdrawal will occur on abrupt discontinuation or administration of a narcotic antagonist .
Morphine and other opiates produce relaxation , indifference to pain and stress , lethargy , and euphoria .
Patients who receive narcotics regularly for more than a few days may exhibit mild symptoms upon discontinuation of therapy , which may not be recognized as withdrawal .
However , the majority of patients who receive opiates for medical reasons do not develop drug seeking behavior or compulsive drug use .
Personality characteristics play a major role in determining which patients are likely to abuse drugs .
Morphine should be used only if other drugs with fewer hazards are inadequate , and with the recognition of the possibility that it may mask significant manifestations of disease which should be identified for proper diagnosis and treatment .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL : Parenteral Therapy – Give by very slow I . V . injection , preferably in the form of a diluted solution .
Rapid I . V . injection of morphine and other narcotic analgesics increases the incidence of adverse reactions ; severe respiratory depression , hypotension , apnea , peripheral circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and anaphylactic reactions have occurred .
These preparations should not be administered I . V . unless a narcotic antagonist and facilities for assisted or controlled respiration are immediately available .
When given parenterally , especially I . V . , the patient should be lying down .
Use caution when injecting subcutaneously or intramuscularly in chilled areas or in patients with hypotension or shock , since impaired perfusion may prevent complete absorption .
If repeated injections are administered , an excessive amount may be suddenly absorbed if normal circulation is reestablished .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure – The respiratory depressant effects of morphine and its capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , brain tumor , other intracranial lesions , or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Asthma and Other Respiratory Conditions – The use of bisulfites is contraindicated in asthmatics .
Bisulfites and morphine may potentiate each other , preventing use by causing severe adverse reactions .
Use with extreme caution in patients having an acute asthmatic attack , patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , and patients with preexisting respiratory depression , hypoxia or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
Hypotensive Effect – Administration may result in severe hypotension in the postoperative patient or in any individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a depleted blood volume or concurrent administration of drugs such as phenothiazines or general anesthetics .
Narcotics may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Supraventricular Tachycardias – Caution should be used in patients with atrial flutter and other supraventricular tachycardias due to a possible vagolytic action which may produce a significant increase in the ventricular response rate .
Acute Abdominal Conditions – The administration of morphine or other narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Use also with caution in patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage , ulcerative colitis , or recent GI or urinary tract surgery .
Special - Risk Patients – Caution must be exercised in elderly and debilitated patients and in patients who are known to be sensitive to CNS depressants , including those with cardiovascular or pulmonary disease , myxedema , acute alcoholism , delirium tremens , cerebral arteriosclerosis , emphysema , fever , bronchial asthma , kyphoscoliosis , Addison ’ s disease , prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture , toxic psychosis .
Renal and Hepatic Dysfunction – Morphine may have a prolonged duration and cumulative effect in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction .
Convulsions – Morphine may aggravate preexisting convulsive disorders .
Convulsions may occur in individuals without a history of convulsive disorders if dosage is substantially escalated above recommended levels because of tolerance development .
PATIENT INFORMATION : Morphine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
DRUG INTERACTIONS : Use with caution and in reduced doses in patients currently receiving other narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , antihistamines ; phenothiazines , barbiturates , other tranquilizers , sedative - hypnotics , tricyclic antidepressants and other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) .
Respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , or coma may result .
The analgesic effect of morphine is potentiated by chlorpromazine and methocarbamol .
Morphine may increase the anticoagulant activity of coumarin and other anticoagulants .
Concurrent administration of cimetidine and morphine has been reported to precipitate apnea , confusion and muscle twitching in an isolated report .
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors markedly potentiate the action of morphine .
Neostigmine increases the intensity and duration of the analgesic action of morphine .
When morphine is to be administered to patients receiving propiomazine ( Largon ) , the dose of morphine should be reduced by one - quarter to one - half .
Reserpine inhibits the analgesic action of morphine .
Veratrum alkaloids may have additive effects , particularly on respiratory depression , when administered concurrently withmorphine .
Atropineantagonizes morphine respiratory depression .
Levallorphan and nalorphine antagonize morphine actions , principally the respiratory depression .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Morphine has no known carcinogenic or mutagenic potential .
However , no long - term animal studies are available to support this observation .
PREGNANCY : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C – Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with morphine sulfate .
It is not known whether morphine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
On the basis of the historical use of morphine sulfate during all stages of pregnancy , there is no known risk of fetal abnormality .
Morphine sulfate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Narcotic analgesics cross the placental barrier ; hence , newborn infants whose mothers have been administered such analgesics during labor should be closely observed for signs of respiratory depression and treated for narcotic overdosage if necessary .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards associated with morphine therapy include the following : respiratory depression , apnea , and , to a lesser degree , circulatory depression .
Respiratory arrest , shock , and cardiac arrest have occurred .
The most frequent adverse reactions include lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea , vomiting , and sweating .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those who are not suffering from severe pain .
In such individuals , lower doses are advisable .
Other adverse reactions include : CNS : Euphoria , dysphoria , delirium , weakness , headache , somnolence , drowsiness , miosis , pinpoint pupils , coma , insomnia , agitation , tremor , uncoordinated muscle movements , impairment of mental and physical performance , mental clouding , lethargy , anxiety , fear , psychic dependence , mood changes , transient hallucinations , disorientation , confusion , and visual disturbances have been reported .
GI : Dry mouth , anorexia , constipation , and biliary tract spasm .
Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility ; toxic dilatation has been reported in patients with acute ulcerative colitis .
Cardiovascular : Flushing of the face , peripheral circulatory collapse , tachycardia , bradycardia , palpitation , faintness , hypotension , syncope , and phlebitis following I . V . injection .
Genito - urinary : Ureteral spasm and spasm of vesical sphincters , urinary retention or hesitancy , oliguria , antidiuretic effect , reduced libido and / or potency .
Allergic : Pruritus , urticaria , other skin rashes , edema , and ( rarely ) hemorrhagic urticaria .
Wheal and flare over the vein with I . V . injection may occur .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported following I . V . administration .
An isolated case of thrombocytopenia has been reported to be induced by morphine .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance : Morphine sulfate is a Schedule II narcotic .
Dependence : Morphine can produce drug dependence and , therefore , has the potential for being abused .
Patients receiving therapeutic dosage regimens of 10 mg every 4 hours for 1 to 2 weeks have exhibited mild withdrawal symptoms .
Dependence is recognizable by an increased tolerance to the analgesic effect and the appearance of purposive phenomena ( complaints , pleas , demands , or manipulative actions ) shortly before the time of the next scheduled dose .
Withdrawal should be treated in a hospital .
Usually , it is necessary only to provide supportive care with administration of a tranquilizer to suppress anxiety .
Severe symptoms of withdrawal may require administration of a replacement narcotic .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms : Serious overdosage is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , maximally constricted pupils , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , particularly by the I . V . route , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment of Overdose : Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
If depressed respiration is associated with muscular rigidity , an I . V . neuromuscular blocking agent may be required to facilitate assisted or controlled respiration .
The narcotic antagonists - nalorphine , naloxone , and levallorphan - are specific antidotes against respiratory depression resulting from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics .
Thus , an antagonist should be administered , preferably by the I . V . route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
Since the duration of action of morphine may exceed that of the antagonist , repeated doses of the antagonist may be required to maintain adequate respiration ; the patient must be kept under surveillance .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
In cases of oral overdose , the stomach should be evacuated by emesis or gastric lavage if treatment can be instituted within 2 hours following ingestion .
The patient should be observed closely for a rise in temperature or pulmonary complications that may signal the need for institution of antibiotic therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THIS PRODUCT IS FOR SLOW I . V . USE , NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
For Relief of Pain and as Pre - anesthetic : The usual adult dose is 10 mg every 4 hours , depending on the severity of the condition and the patient ’ s response .
The usual individual dose range is 5 to 15 mg .
The usual daily dose range is 12 to 120 mg .
Usual Pediatric Subcutaneous : 100 to 200 μg ( 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg ) per kg body weight , not to exceed 15 mg per dose .
For Open Heart Surgery : Large doses ( 0 . 5 to 3 mg / kg ) of morphine are administered intravenously as the sole anesthetic or with a suitable anesthetic agent .
The patients are given oxygen and cardiovascular function is not depressed by morphine , as long as adequate ventilation is maintained .
For Severe Chronic Pain Associated with Terminal Cancer : Continuous Intravenous Infusion - Prior to the initiation of the morphine infusion ( in concentrations between 0 . 2 to 1 mg / mL ) , a loading dose of 15 mg or higher of morphine sulfate may be administeredby I . V . push to alleviate pain .
The infusion dosage range is 0 . 8 mg / hr to 80 mg / hr , though doses of up to 144 mg / hr have been used .
Thus , for the 1 mg / mL solution , the infusion may be run from 0 . 8 mL / hr to 80 mL / hr , and for the 0 . 5 mg / mL solution , the infusion may be run from 1 . 6 mL / hr to 160 mL / hr .
A constant infusion rate must be maintained with an infusion pump in order to assure proper dosage control .
Care must be taken to avoid overdosage ( respiratory depression ) or abrupt cessation of therapy , which may give rise to withdrawal symptoms .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 10 individual cartons shrink wrapped as a group of 10 cartons .
Concentration System Stock No .
NDC No .
Route 1 mg / mL 30 mg in 30 mL PUMP - JET ® 1911 76329 - 1911 - 1 SUITABLE FOR USE WITH COMPATIBLE I . V . INFUSION PUMPS Syringe Assembly Directions : USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE Do not assemble until ready to use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] * CAUTION : IMPROPER ENGAGING MAY CAUSE GLASS BREAKAGE AND SUBSEQUENT INJURY .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ˚ to 30 ˚ C ( 59 ˚ to 86 ˚ F ) .
Morphine sulfate solutions may darken with age .
Do not use if injection is darker than pale yellow , discolored in any other way , or contains a precipitate .
Protect from light .
NOTE : This product contains antioxidants and is not intended for intrathecal or epidural use .
Rx Only INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED SO .
EL MONTE , CA 91733 , U . S . A .
An Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Company REV . 7 - 13 © INTERNATIONAL MEDICATION SYSTEMS , LIMITED 2013 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Vial Label Rx Only IMS , LIMITED So .
El Monte , CA 91733 , U . S . A . FOR SLOW INTRAVENOUS USE / FOR USE WITH COMPATIBLE INFUSION PUMPS ONLY / SEE INSERT / SINGLE DOSE / PROTECT FROM LIGHT / DO NOT USE IF INJECTION IS DARKER THAN PALE YELLOW , DISCOLORED OR CONTAINS A PRECIPITATE NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE 7619110 J 7 - 13 30 mL 30 mg 1 mg / mL MORPHINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP Delivered Approx .
0 5 10 15 20 25 mgmL 30 25 20 15 10 5 Available [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPLE DISPLAY PANEL : Carton Pump - Jet ® Rx Only NDC 76329 - 1911 - 1 STOCK NO . 1911 MORPHINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP ( 1 mg / mL ) 30 mg per 30 mL FOR SLOW INTRAVENOUS USE NARCOTIC ANALGESIC NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE Single use , do not reuse or resterilize .
PUMP - JET ® ( LUER - LOCK ) FOR USE WITH COMPATIBLE INFUSION PUMPS ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
