Drug Facts Active Ingredients Benzoyl Peroxide ( 2 . 5 % ) Purpose Acne Medication Uses • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if you have very sensitive skin or are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth .
Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product .
Skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with on application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Kaolin , Bentonite , Propylene Glycol , Hydroxyethyl Behenamidopropyl Dimonium Chloride , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter Extract , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Euphorbia Cerifera ( Candelilla ) Wax , Xanthan Gum , Allantoin , Bisabolol , Caprylyl Glycol , Sodium Citrate , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin .
imported / distributed by Gloss Brands Europe with offices at Keizersgracht 391 a , Amsterdam , 1016 EJ , Noord Holland , The Netherlands .
imported / distributed by Gloss Brands LLC with offices at 3381 Robertson Place , Los Angeles , CA , 90034 , USA .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 ml Tube Carton spot eraser blemish drying lotion 0 . 5 fl oz / 15 ml SACHEU [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
