Indications and Usage , Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease ( 1 . 1 ) 04 / 2016 Dosage and Administration , Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease ( 2 . 1 ) 04 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BUDESONIDE Capsules is a corticosteroid indicated for : • Treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
( 1 . 1 ) • Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease BUDESONIDE Capsules is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ' s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
1 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease BUDESONIDE Capsules is indicated for the maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon for up to 3 months in adults .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administration Instructions ( 2 . 1 ) : • Take once daily in the morning • Swallow whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of therapy Recommended Dosage : Mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease ( 2 . 2 ) : • Adults : 9 mg once daily for up to 8 weeks ; repeat 8 week treatment courses for recurring episodes of active disease .
Maintenance of clinical remission of mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease ( 2 . 3 ) .
• Adults : 6 mg once daily for up to 3 months ; taper to complete cessation after 3 months .
Continued treatment for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
• When switching from oral prednisolone , begin tapering prednisolone concomitantly with initiating BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Hepatic Impairment : • Consider reducing the dosage to 3 mg once daily in adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Administration Instructions • Take BUDESONIDE Capsules once daily in the morning .
• Swallow BUDESONIDE Capsules whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of BUDESONIDE Capsules therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 2 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease The recommended dosage of BUDESONIDE Capsules is : Adults : 9 mg orally once daily for up to 8 weeks .
Repeated 8 week courses of BUDESONIDE Capsules can be given for recurring episodes of active disease .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 3 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease The recommended dosage in adults , following an 8 week course ( s ) of treatment for active disease and once the patient ’ s symptoms are controlled ( CDAI less than 150 ) , is BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg orally once daily for maintenance of clinical remission up to 3 months .
If symptom control is still maintained at 3 months an attempt to taper to complete cessation is recommended .
Continued treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg for more than 3 months has not been shown to provide substantial clinical benefit .
Patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or ascending colon have been switched from oral prednisolone to BUDESONIDE Capsules with no reported episodes of adrenal insufficiency .
Since prednisolone should not be stopped abruptly , tapering should begin concomitantly with initiating BUDESONIDE Capsules treatment .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment in Adult Patients with Hepatic Impairment Consider reducing the dosage of BUDESONIDE Capsules to 3 mg once daily for adult patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS BUDESONIDE Capsules , 3 mg are hard gelatin capsules size " 0 " light grey opaque body and pink opaque cap imprinted with Black ink " AC " on cap and " 520 " on body filled with white to off white Pellets .
Capsules : 3 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS BUDESONIDE Capsules is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients of Budesonide Capsules .
Serious hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis have occurred [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to budesonide or any of the ingredients in BUDESONIDE Capsules .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression : Follow general warnings concerning corticosteroids ; pediatrics and patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 , 8 . 6 ) • Symptoms of Steroid Withdrawal in Patients Transferred from Other Systemic Corticosteroids : Taper slowly from corticosteroids with high systemic effects ; monitor for withdrawal symptoms and unmasking of allergies ( rhinitis , eczema ) .
( 5 . 2 ) • Increased Risk of Infection , including Serious and Fatal Chicken Pox and Measles : Monitor patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
( 5 . 3 ) • Other Corticosteroid Effects : Monitor patients with concomitant conditions where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects ( e . g . , hypertension , diabetes mellitus ) .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression When corticosteroids are used chronically , systemic effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression may occur .
Corticosteroids can reduce the response of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis to stress .
In situations where patients are subject to surgery or other stress situations , supplementation with a systemic corticosteroid is recommended .
Since BUDESONIDE Capsules contains a corticosteroid , general warnings concerning corticosteroids should be followed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 3 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with Crohn ’ s disease have a slightly higher systemic exposure of budesonide and increased cortisol suppression than adults with Crohn ’ s disease [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure of oral budesonide .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism and consider reducing the dosage in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Symptoms of Steroid Withdrawal in Patients Transferred from Other Systemic Corticosteroids Monitor patients who are transferred from corticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects to corticosteroids with lower systemic availability , such as BUDESONIDE Capsules , since symptoms attributed to withdrawal of steroid therapy , including those of acute adrenal axis suppression or benign intracranial hypertension , may develop .
Adrenocortical function monitoring may be required in these patients and the dose of corticosteroid treatment with high systemic effects should be reduced cautiously .
Replacement of systemic corticosteroids with BUDESONIDE Capsules may unmask allergies ( e . g . , rhinitis and eczema ) , which were previously controlled by the systemic drug .
5 . 3 Increased Risk of Infection Patients who are on drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infection than healthy individuals .
Chicken pox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible patients or patients on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids .
In patients who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed , therapy with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) , as appropriate , may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See prescribing information for VZIG and IG . )
If chicken pox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Corticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection , untreated fungal , bacterial , systemic viral or parasitic infections , or ocular herpes simplex .
5 . 4 Other Corticosteroid Effects Monitor patients with hypertension , diabetes mellitus , osteoporosis , peptic ulcer , glaucoma or cataracts , or with a family history of diabetes or glaucoma , or with any other condition where corticosteroids may have unwanted effects .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in labeling : • Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Symptoms of steroid withdrawal in those patients transferred from systemic corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Increased risk of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Other corticosteroid Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) in adults are headache , respiratory infection , nausea , back pain , dyspepsia , dizziness , abdominal pain , flatulence , vomiting , fatigue , and pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4597 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice . AdultsThe data described below reflect exposure to BUDESONIDE Capsules in 520 patients with Crohn ’ s disease , including 520 exposed to 9 mg per day ( total daily dose ) for 8 weeks and 145 exposed to 6 mg per day for one year in placebo controlled clinical trials .
Of the 520 patients , 38 % were males and the age range was 17 to 74 years .
Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease The safety of BUDESONIDE Capsules was evaluated in 651 adult patients in five clinical trials of 8 weeks duration in patients with active mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease .
The most common adverse reactions , occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of the patients , are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 Common Adverse ReactionsOccurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of the patients in any treated group .
in 8 - Week Treatment Clinical TrialsBUDESONIDE Capsules , 9 mgn = 520 Placebon = 107 PrednisolonePrednisolone tapering scheme : either 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg per week ; or 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , 30 mg in week 3 to 4 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg per week . 40 mgn = 145 ComparatorThis drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ’ s disease in the United States . n = 88 Adverse ReactionNumber ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Headache107 ( 21 ) 19 ( 18 ) 31 ( 21 ) 11 ( 13 ) Respiratory Infection55 ( 11 ) 7 ( 7 ) 20 ( 14 ) 5 ( 6 ) Nausea57 ( 11 ) 10 ( 9 ) 18 ( 12 ) 7 ( 8 ) Back Pain36 ( 7 ) 10 ( 9 ) 17 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Dyspepsia31 ( 6 ) 4 ( 4 ) 17 ( 12 ) 3 ( 3 ) Dizziness38 ( 7 ) 5 ( 5 ) 18 ( 12 ) 5 ( 6 ) Abdominal Pain32 ( 6 ) 18 ( 17 ) 6 ( 4 ) 10 ( 11 ) Flatulence30 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 12 ( 8 ) 5 ( 6 ) Vomiting29 ( 6 ) 6 ( 6 ) 6 ( 4 ) 6 ( 7 ) Fatigue25 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 11 ( 8 ) 0 ( 0 ) Pain24 ( 5 ) 8 ( 7 ) 17 ( 12 ) 2 ( 2 ) The incidence of signs and symptoms of hypercorticism reported by active questioning of patients in 4 of the 5 short - term clinical trials are displayed in Table 2 .
Table 2 Summary and Incidence of Signs / Symptoms of Hypercorticism in 8 - Week Treatment Clinical TrialsSigns / SymptomBUDESONIDE9 mgn = 427 Number ( % ) Placebon = 107 Number ( % ) PrednisolonePrednisolone tapering scheme : either 40 mg in week 1 - 2 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg / week ; or 40 mg in week 1 to 2 , 30 mg in week 3 to 4 , thereafter tapering with 5 mg / week . 40 mgn = 145 Number ( % ) Total145 ( 34 % ) 29 ( 27 % ) 69 ( 48 % ) Acne63 ( 15 ) 14 ( 13 ) 33 ( 23 ) Statistically significantly different from BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg . Bruising Easily63 ( 15 ) 12 ( 11 ) 13 ( 9 ) Moon Face46 ( 11 ) 4 ( 4 ) 53 ( 37 ) Swollen Ankles32 ( 7 ) 6 ( 6 ) 13 ( 9 ) HirsutismIncluding hair growth increased , local and hair growth increased , general . 22 ( 5 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Buffalo Hump6 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) Skin Striae4 ( 1 ) 2 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s DiseaseThe safety of BUDESONIDE Capsules was evaluated in 233 adult patients in four long - term clinical trials ( 52 weeks ) of maintenance of clinical remission in patients with mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease .
A total of 145 patients were treated with BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg once daily . The adverse reaction profile of BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg once daily in maintenance of Crohn ’ s disease was similar to that of short - term treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg once daily in active Crohn ’ s disease .
In the long - term clinical trials , the following adverse reactions occurred in greater than or equal to 5 % and are not listed in Table 1 : diarrhea ( 10 % ) ; sinusitis ( 8 % ) ; infection viral ( 6 % ) ; and arthralgia ( 5 % ) .
Signs / symptoms of hypercorticism reported by active questioning of patients in the long - term maintenance clinical trials are displayed in Table 3 .
Table 3 Summary and Incidence of Signs / Symptoms of Hypercorticism in Long - Term Clinical Trials Studies . BUDESONIDE Capsules 3 mgn = 88 BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mgn = 145 Placebon = 143 Signs / SymptomNumber ( % ) Number ( % ) Number ( % ) Bruising Easily4 ( 5 ) 15 ( 10 ) 5 ( 4 ) Acne4 ( 5 ) 14 ( 10 ) 3 ( 2 ) Moon Face3 ( 3 ) 6 ( 4 ) 0Hirsutism2 ( 2 ) 5 ( 3 ) 1 ( 1 ) Swollen Ankles2 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) 3 ( 2 ) Buffalo Hump1 ( 1 ) 1 ( 1 ) 0 Skin Striae2 ( 2 ) 00 The incidence of signs / symptom of hypercorticism as described above in long - term clinical trials was similar to that seen in the short - term clinical trials . Less Common Adverse Reactions in Treatment and Maintenance Clinical Trials Less common adverse reactions ( less than 5 % ) , occurring in adult patients treated with BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg ( total daily dose ) in short - term treatment clinical studies and / or BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg ( total daily dose ) in long - term maintenance clinical trials , with an incidence are listed below by system organ class : Cardiac disorders : palpitation , tachycardia Eye disorders : eye abnormality , vision abnormal General disorders and administration site conditions : asthenia , chest pain , dependent edema , face edema , flu - like disorder , malaise , fever Gastrointestinal disorders : anus disorder , enteritis , epigastric pain , gastrointestinal fistula , glossitis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , tongue edema , tooth disorder Infections and infestations : Ear infection - not otherwise specified , bronchitis , abscess , rhinitis , urinary tract infection , thrush Investigations : weight increased Metabolism and nutrition disorders : appetite increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : arthritis , cramps , myalgia Nervous system disorders : hyperkinesia , parasthesia , tremor , vertigo , somnolence , amnesia Psychiatric disorders : agitation , confusion , insomnia , nervousness , sleep disorder Renal and urinary disorders : dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia Reproductive system and breast disorders : intermenstrual bleeding , menstrual disorder Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : dyspnea , pharynx disorder Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : alopecia , dermatitis , eczema , skin disorder , sweating increased , purpura Vascular disorders : flushing , hypertension Bone Mineral Density A randomized , open , parallel - group multicenter safety clinical trial specifically compared the effect of BUDESONIDE Capsules ( less than 9 mg per day ) and prednisolone ( less than 40 mg per day ) on bone mineral density over 2 years when used at doses adjusted to disease severity .
Bone mineral density decreased significantly less with BUDESONIDE Capsules than with prednisolone in steroid - naïve patients , whereas no difference could be detected between treatment groups for steroid - dependent patients and previous steroid users .
The incidence of symptoms associated with hypercorticism was significantly higher with prednisolone treatment .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials , irrespective of relationship to BUDESONIDE Capsules , were reported in greater than or equal to 1 % of patients : hypokalemia , leukocytosis , anemia , hematuria , pyuria , erythrocyte sedimentation rate increased , alkaline phosphatase increased , atypical neutrophils , c - reactive protein increased and adrenal insufficiency .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during post - approval use of Budesonide Capsule .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders : Anaphylactic reactions Nervous System Disorders : Benign intracranial hypertension Psychiatric Disorders : Mood swings 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , grapefruit juice ) : Can increase systemic budesonide concentrations : avoid use .
( 2 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Budesonide is a substrate for CYP3A4 .
Avoid use with CYP3A4 inhibitors .
Concomitant oral administration of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ( ketoconazole ) caused an eight - fold increase of the systemic exposure to oral budesonide .
Inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir , indinavir , saquinavir , erythromycin , and cyclosporine ) can increase systemic budesonide concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Grapefruit Juice Avoid ingestion of grapefruit juice with budesonide .
Intake of grapefruit juice which inhibits CYP3A4 activity with budesonide can increase the systemic exposure for budesonide [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited published studies report on the use of budesonide in pregnant women ; however , the data are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are clinical considerations [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies with pregnant rats and rabbits , administration of subcutaneous budesonide during organogenesis at doses approximately 0 . 5 times or 0 . 05 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose , resulted in increased fetal loss , decreased pup weights , and skeletal abnormalities .
Maternal toxicity was observed in both rats and rabbits at these dose levels [ see Data ] .
Based on animal data , advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage of the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Some published epidemiological studies show an association of adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with Crohn ’ s disease , including preterm birth and low birth weight infants , during periods of increased disease activity ( including increased stool frequency and abdominal pain ) .
Pregnant women with Crohn ’ s disease should be counseled regarding the importance of controlling disease .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Hypoadrenalism may occur in infants born of mothers receiving corticosteroids during pregnancy .
Infants should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism , such as poor feeding , irritability , weakness , and vomiting , and managed accordingly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Budesonide was teratogenic and embryolethal in rabbits and rats .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rats dosed subcutaneously with budesonide during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 6 - 17 there was a prolonged duration of pregnancy in dams and effects on fetal development and survival at subcutaneous doses up to approximately 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits dosed during the period of organogenesis from gestation days 7 to 20 , increase in maternal abortion , and effects on fetal development and reduction in litter weights at subcutaneous doses up to approximately 25 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , including reduction in body weight gain , was observed at subcutaneous doses of 5 mcg / kg in rabbits ( approximately 0 . 01 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and 500 mcg / kg in rats ( approximately 0 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In a peri - and post - natal development study , rats dosed subcutaneously with budesonide during the period of Day 15 post coitum to Day 21 postpartum , budesonide had no effects on delivery but did have an effect on growth and development of offspring .
In addition , offspring survival was reduced and surviving offspring had decreased mean body weights at birth and during lactation along with delayed sexual maturation at exposures ≥ 0 . 5 times the MRHD ( on a mg / m2 basis at maternal subcutaneous doses of 500 mcg / kg / day and higher ) .
These findings occurred in the presence of maternal toxicity .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted with oral budesonide , including BUDESONIDE Capsules , and no information is available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide [ see Data ] .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for BUDESONIDE Capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from BUDESONIDE Capsules , or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data One published study reports that budesonide is present in human milk following maternal inhalation of budesonide which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 3 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 4 and 0 . 5 .
Budesonide plasma concentrations were not detected and no adverse events were noted in the breastfed infants following maternal use of inhaled budesonide .
The recommended daily dose of BUDESONIDE Capsules is higher ( up to 9 mg daily ) compared with inhaled budesonide ( up to 800 mcg daily ) given to mothers in the above described study .
The maximum budesonide plasma concentration following a 9 mg daily dose ( in both single - and repeated - dose pharmacokinetic studies ) of oral budesonide is approximately 5 to 10 nmol / L which is up to 10 times higher than the 1 to 2 nmol / L for a 800 mcg daily dose of inhaled budesonide at steady state in the above inhalation study .
Assuming the coefficient of extrapolation between the inhaled and oral doses is constant across all dose levels , at therapeutic doses of BUDESONIDE Capsules , budesonide exposure to the nursing child may be up to 10 times higher than that by budesonide inhalation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Systemic corticosteroids , including Budesonide Capsules , may cause a reduction of growth velocity in pediatric patients .
Pediatric patients with Crohn ’ s disease have a 17 % higher mean systemic exposure and cortisol suppression than adults with Crohn ’ s disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of Budesonide Capsules have not been established in pediatric patients less than 8 years of age .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s ENTOCORT EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
Additional information describing a clinical study in which efficacy was not demonstrated in patients ages 5 to 17 years for another indication is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s ENTOCORT EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B and C , respectively ) could be at an increased risk of hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression due to an increased systemic exposure to budesonide [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Monitor for increased signs and / or symptoms of hypercorticism and consider dosage reduction in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A ) .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of BUDESONIDE Capsules did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients . Of the 651 patients treated with BUDESONIDE Capsules in clinical studies , 17 ( 3 % ) were greater than or equal to 65 years of age and none were greater than 74 years of age .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
10 OVERDOSAGE Reports of acute toxicity and / or death following overdosage of glucocorticoids are rare .
Treatment consists of immediate gastric lavage or emesis followed by supportive and symptomatic therapy .
If corticosteroids are used at excessive doses for prolonged periods , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression may occur .
For chronic overdosage in the case of severe disease requiring continuous steroid therapy , the dosage may be reduced temporarily .
Single oral doses of 200 and 400 mg / kg were lethal in female and male mice , respectively .
The signs of acute toxicity were decreased motor activity , piloerection and generalized edema .
11 DESCRIPTION Budesonide , the active ingredient of BUDESONIDE Capsules , is a synthetic corticosteroid .
Budesonide is designated chemically as 16α , 17 - [ ( 1 RS ) - butylidenebis ( oxy ) ] - 11β , 21 - dihydroxypregna - 1 , 4 , diene - 3 , 20 - dione .
Budesonide is provided as a mixtureof two epimers ( 22 R and 22 S ) .
The empirical formula of budesonide is C25H34O6 and its molecular weight is 430 . 5 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epimer 22 R or Epimer B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Epimer 22 S or Epimer A Budesonide is a white or almost white , odorless crystalline powder that is practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in dichloromethane , sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Its partition coefficient between octanol and water at pH 5 is 1 . 6 x 103 ionic strength 0 . 01 .
Each capsule for oral administration contains 3 mg of micronized budesonide with the following inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , acetyltributyl citrate , lactose monohydrate , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , triethyl citrate , sodium hydroxide , talc and sugar spheres .
The capsule shells have the following inactive ingredients , gelatin , iron oxide red , iron oxide black , iron oxide yellow and titanium dioxide .
Sugar Spheres contains the following inactive ingredients Sucrose and corn starch .
The imprinting ink contains the following nonvolatile components black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Budesonide is an anti - inflammatory corticosteroid and has a high glucocorticoid effect and a weak mineralocorticoid effect , and the affinity of budesonide to glucocorticoid receptors , which reflects the intrinsic potency of the drug , is about 200 - fold that of cortisol and 15 - fold that of prednisolone .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Treatment with glucocorticoids , including BUDESONIDE Capsules is associated with a suppression of endogenous cortisol concentrations and an impairment of the hypothalamus - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis function .
There was a positive correlation between the percent ( % ) reduction of AUC 0 - 24 of plasma cortisol and systemic exposure to budesonide in adult patients .
Adults Plasma cortisol suppression was compared following five days ’ administration of BUDESONIDE Capsules and prednisolone in a crossover study in healthy volunteers .
The mean decrease in the area under the plasma cortisol concentration - time curve over 24 hour ( AUC0 - 24 ) was greater ( 78 % ) with prednisolone 20 mg per day compared to 45 % with BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg per day .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following administration of BUDESONIDE Capsules , the time to peak concentration varied in individual patients between 30 and 600 minutes .
Mean oral bioavailability of budesonide ranged from 9 % to 21 % both in patients and in healthy subjects , demonstrating a high first - pass elimination of the drug .
Budesonide pharmacokinetics were dose - proportional following repeated administration in the dose range of 3 to 15 mg .
No accumulation of budesonide was observed following repeated dosing .
Following oral administration of 9 mg BUDESONIDE Capsules for five days in healthy subjects , the mean peak plasma concentration and the steady state area under the plasma concentration time curve for budesonide were 5 . 3 ± 1 . 8 nmol / L and 37 . 0 ± 14 . 6 nmol • hr / L , respectively .
Following administration of 9 mg BUDESONIDE Capsules once daily in patients with active Crohn ’ s disease , the mean peak plasma concentration and AUC were 4 . 0 ± 2 . 1 nmol / L and 35 . 0 ± 19 . 8 nmol • h / L , respectively .
Concomitant administration of a high - fat meal delayed the time to peak concentration of budesonide from BUDESONIDE Capsules by 2 . 3 hours but did not significantly affect the AUC in healthy subjects .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution ( V ss ) of budesonide varied between 2 . 2 and 3 . 9 L / kg in healthy subjects and in patients .
Plasma protein binding was estimated to be 85 % to 90 % in the concentration range 1 to 230 nmol / L , independent of gender .
The erythrocyte / plasma partition ratio at clinically relevant concentrations was about 0 . 8 .
Elimination Budesonide had a plasma clearance , 0 . 9 to 1 . 8 L / min in healthy adults .
Mean plasma clearance after intravenous administration of budesonide in patients with Crohn ’ s disease was 1 . 0 L / min .
These plasma clearance values approached the estimated liver blood flow , and , accordingly , suggest that budesonide is a high hepatic clearance drug .
The plasma elimination half - life , after administration of intravenous doses ranged between 2 and 3 . 6 hours , and did not differ between healthy adults and patients with Crohn ’ s disease .
Metabolism Following absorption , budesonide is subject to high first pass metabolism ( 80 % to 90 % ) .
In vitro experiments in human liver microsomes demonstrated that budesonide is rapidly and extensively biotransformed , mainly by CYP3A4 , to its 2 major metabolites , 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone .
The corticosteroid activity of these metabolites was negligible ( less than 1 / 100 ) in relation to that of the parent compound .
In vivo investigations with intravenous doses in healthy subjects were in agreement with the in vitro findings .
Excretion Budesonide was excreted in urine and feces in the form of metabolites .
After oral as well as intravenous administration of micronized [ 3 H ] - budesonide , approximately 60 % of the recovered radioactivity was found in urine .
The major metabolites , including 6β - hydroxy budesonide and 16α - hydroxy prednisolone , are mainly renally excreted , intact or in conjugated forms .
No unchanged budesonide was detected in urine .
Specific Populations Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A , n = 4 ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B , n = 4 ) hepatic impairment , budesonide 4 mg was administered orally as a single dose .
The patients with moderate hepatic impairment had a 3 . 5 - fold higher AUC compared to the healthy subjects with normal hepatic function while the patients with mild hepatic impairment had an approximately 1 . 4 - fold higher AUC .
The C max values demonstrated similar increases [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The increased systemic exposure in patients with mild hepatic impairment was not considered to be clinically relevant .
Patients with severe liver impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) were not studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Budesonide is metabolized via CYP3A4 .
Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 can increase the plasma concentrations of budesonide several - fold .
Conversely , induction of CYP3A4 potentially could result in the lowering of budesonide plasma concentrations .
Effects of Other Drugs on Budesonide Ketoconazole In an open , non - randomized , cross - over study , 6 healthy subjects were given budesonide 10 mg as a single dose , either alone or concomitantly with the last ketoconazole dose of 3 days treatment with ketoconazole 100 mg twice daily .
Coadministration of ketoconazole resulted in an eight - fold increase in AUC of budesonide , compared to budesonide alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Grapefruit Juice In an open , randomized , cross - over study , 8 healthy subjects were given BUDESONIDE Capsules capsules 3 mg , either alone , or concomitantly with 600 mL concentrated grapefruit juice ( which inhibits CYP3A4 activity predominantly in the intestinal mucosa ) , on the last of 4 daily administrations .
Concomitant administration of grapefruit juice resulted in a 2 - fold increase of the bioavailability of budesonide compared to budesonide alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Oral Contraceptives ( CYP3A4 Substrates ) In a parallel study , the pharmacokinetics of budesonide were not significantly different between healthy female subjects who received oral contraceptives containing desogestrel 0 . 15 mg and ethinyl estradiol 30 μg and healthy female subjects who did not receive oral contraceptives .
Budesonide 4 . 5 mg once daily ( one - half the recommended dose ) for one week did not affect the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol , a CYP3A4 substrate .
The effect of budesonide 9 mg once daily on the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol was not studied .
Omeprazole In a study in 11 healthy subjects , performed in a double - blind , randomized , placebo controlled manner , the effect of 5 to 6 days treatment with omeprazole 20 mg once daily on the pharmacokinetics of budesonide administered as BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg as a single dose was investigated .
Omeprazole 20 mg once daily did not affect the absorption or pharmacokinetics of budesonide .
Cimetidine In an open , non - randomized , cross - over study , the potential effect of cimetidine on the pharmacokinetics of budesonide was studied .
Six healthy subjects received cimetidine 1 gram daily ( 200 mg with meals and 400 mg at night ) for 2 separate 3 - day periods .
Budesonide 4 mg was administered either alone or on the last day of one of the cimetidine treatment periods .
Co - administration of cimetidine resulted in a 52 % and 31 % increase in the budesonide peak plasma concentration and the AUC of budesonide , respectively .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with budesonide were conducted in rats and mice .
In a two - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of gliomas in male rats at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In addition , there were increased incidences of primary hepatocellular tumors in male rats at 25 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 023 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No tumorigenicity was seen in female rats at oral doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
In an additional two - year study in male Sprague - Dawley rats , budesonide caused no gliomas at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular tumors at an oral dose of 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 05 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
The concurrent reference corticosteroids ( prednisolone and triamcinolone acetonide ) showed similar findings .
In a 91 - week study in mice , budesonide caused no treatment - related carcinogenicity at oral doses up to 200 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
Budesonide was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell forward gene mutation ( TK + / - ) test , the human lymphocyte chromosome aberration test , the Drosophila melanogaster sex - linked recessive lethality test , the rat hepatocyte UDS test and the mouse micronucleus test .
In rats , budesonide had no effect on fertility at subcutaneous doses up to 80 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 07 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
However , it caused a decrease in prenatal viability and viability in pups at birth and during lactation , along with a decrease in maternal body - weight gain , at subcutaneous doses of 20 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 02 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) and above .
No such effects were noted at 5 mcg / kg ( approximately 0 . 005 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Mild to Moderate Active Crohn ’ s Disease Adults The efficacy of BUDESONIDE Capsules , were evaluated in 994 patients with mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease of the ileum and / or ascending colon in 5 randomized and double - blind studies .
The study patients ranged in age from 17 to 85 ( mean 35 ) , 40 % were male and 97 % were white .
The Crohn ’ s Disease Activity Index ( CDAI ) was the main clinical assessment used for determining efficacy in these 5 studies .
The CDAI is a validated index based on subjective aspects rated by the patient ( frequency of liquid or very soft stools , abdominal pain rating and general well - being ) and objective observations ( number of extraintestinal symptoms , need for antidiarrheal drugs , presence of abdominal mass , body weight and hematocrit ) .
Clinical improvement , defined as a CDAI score of less than or equal to 150 assessed after 8 weeks of treatment , was the primary efficacy variable in these 5 comparative efficacy studies of BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Safety assessments in these studies included monitoring of adverse reactions .
A checklist of potential symptoms of hypercorticism was used .
One study ( Study 1 ) compared the efficacy of BUDESONIDE Capsules , 9 mg daily in the morning to a comparator .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 272 .
BUDESONIDE Capsules , 9 mg daily resulted in a significantly higher clinical improvement rate at Week 8 than the comparator .
See Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Clinical Improvement Rates ( CDAI less than or equal to 150 ) After 8 Weeks of Treatment Clinical Study Budesonide capsules 9 mg Daily Budesonide capsules 4 . 5 mg Twice Daily Comparator [ 1 ] Placebo Prednisolone 1 62 / 91 ( 69 % ) [ 2 ] 37 / 83 ( 45 % ) 2 31 / 61 ( 51 % ) [ 3 ] 13 / 64 ( 20 % ) 3 38 / 79 ( 48 % ) 41 / 78 ( 53 % ) 13 / 40 ( 33 % ) 4 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 25 / 60 ( 42 % ) 35 / 58 ( 60 % ) 5 45 / 86 ( 52 % ) 56 / 85 ( 65 % ) [ 1 ] This drug is not approved for the treatment of Crohn ’ s disease in the United States .
[ 2 ] p = 0 . 0004 compared to comparator [ 3 ] p = 0 . 001 compared to placebo .
Two placebo - controlled clinical trials ( Studies 2 and 3 ) were conducted .
Study 2 involved 258 patients and tested the effects of graded doses of BUDESONIDE Capsules ( 1 . 5 mg twice daily , 4 . 5 mg twice daily , or 7 . 5 mg twice daily ) versus placebo .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 290 .
The 1 . 5 mg twice daily arm ( data not shown ) could not be differentiated from placebo .
The 4 . 5 mg twice daily arm was statistically different from placebo ( Table 5 ) , while no additional benefit was seen when the daily BUDESONIDE Capsules dose was increased to 15 mg per day ( data not shown ) .
Study 3 was a 3 - armed parallel group study .
The groups were treated with BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg once daily , BUDESONIDE Capsules 4 . 5 mg twice daily and placebo for 8 weeks , followed by a 2 - week double - blind taper phase .
The median CDAI at baseline was 263 .
Neither 9 mg daily nor 4 . 5 mg twice daily BUDESONIDE Capsules dose levels were statistically different from placebo ( Table 5 ) .
The recommended dosage of BUDESONIDE Capsules for the treatment of mild to moderate active Crohn ’ s disease involving the ileum and / or the ascending colon in adults is 9 mg once daily in the morning for up to 8 weeks [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Two clinical trials ( Studies 4 and 5 ) compared BUDESONIDE Capsules with oral prednisolone ( initial dose 40 mg per day ) .
Study 4 was a 3 - armed parallel group study .
The groups were treated with BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg once daily , BUDESONIDE Capsules 4 . 5 mg twice daily and prednisolone 40 mg ( tapered dose ) for 8 weeks , followed by a 4 - week double blind taper phase .
At baseline , the median CDAI was 277 .
Equal clinical improvement rates ( 60 % ) were seen in the BUDESONIDE Capsules 9 mg daily and the prednisolone groups in Study 4 .
In Study 5 , 13 % fewer patients in the BUDESONIDE Capsules group experienced clinical improvement than in the prednisolone group ( no statistical difference ) ( Table 5 ) .
The proportion of patients with normal plasma cortisol values ( greater than 150 nmol / L ) was significantly higher in the BUDESONIDE Capsules groups in both trials ( 60 % to 66 % ) than in the prednisolone groups ( 26 % to 28 % ) at Week 8 .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s ENTOCORT EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
14 . 2 Maintenance of Clinical Remission of Mild to Moderate Crohn ’ s Disease Adults The efficacy of BUDESONIDE Capsules for maintenance of clinical remission were evaluated in four double - blind , placebo - controlled , 12 - month trials in which 380 patients were randomized and treated once daily with 3 mg or 6 mg BUDESONIDE Capsules or placebo .
Patients ranged in age from 18 to 73 ( mean 37 ) years .
Sixty percent of the patients were female and 99 % were Caucasian .
The mean CDAI at entry was 96 .
Among the four clinical trials , approximately 75 % of the patients enrolled had exclusively ileal disease .
Colonoscopy was not performed following treatment .
BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg per day prolonged the time to relapse , defined as an increase in CDAI of at least 60 units to a total score greater than 150 or withdrawal due to disease deterioration .
The median time to relapse in the pooled population of the 4 studies was 154 days for patients taking placebo , and 268 days for patients taking BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg per day .
BUDESONIDE Capsules 6 mg per day reduced the proportion of patients with loss of symptom control relative to placebo in the pooled population for the 4 studies at 3 months ( 28 % versus 45 % for placebo ) .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
Best WR , Becktel JM , Singleton JW , Kern F : Development of a Crohn ’ s Disease Activity Index , National Cooperative Crohn ’ s Disease Study .
Gastroenterology 1976 ; 70 ( 3 ) : 439 - 444 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING BUDESONIDE Capsules , 3 mg are hard gelatin capsules size “ 0 ” light grey opaque body and pink opaque cap imprinted with black ink “ AC ” on Cap and “ 520 ” on body filled with white to off white Pellets .
BUDESONIDE Capsules , 3 mg are supplied as follows : NDC 64980 - 255 - 01 Bottles of 100 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise Patients to read the FDA - Approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hypercorticism and Adrenal Axis Suppression Advise patients that BUDESONIDE Capsules may cause hypercorticism and adrenal axis suppression and to follow a taper schedule , as instructed by their healthcare provider if transferring to BUDESONIDE Capsules from systemic corticosteroids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that replacement of systemic corticosteroids with BUDESONIDE Capsules may unmask allergies ( e . g . , rhinitis and eczema ) , which were previously controlled by the systemic drug .
Increased Risk of Infection Advise patients to avoid exposure to people with chicken pox or measles and , if exposed , to consult their healthcare provider immediately .
Inform patients that they are at increased risk of developing a variety of infections ; including worsening of existing tuberculosis , fungal , bacterial , viral or parasitic infections or ocular herpes simplex and to contact their healthcare provider if they develop any symptoms of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise female patients that BUDESONIDE Capsules may cause fetal harm and to inform their healthcare provider with a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Administration Advise patients to : • Take BUDESONIDE Capsules once daily in the morning .
• Swallow BUDESONIDE Capsules whole .
Do not chew or crush .
• Avoid consumption of grapefruit juice for the duration of their BUDESONIDE Capsules therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
ENTOCORT is a registered trademark of the Elan Pharma International Limited , a Perrigo Company .
Manufactured By : Appco Pharma LLC Piscataway , New Jersey 08854 Distributed By : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Saddle Brook , New Jersey 07633 Revised : 07 / 2018 200300 Patient Information BUDESONIDE Capsules ( bue - DES - oh - nide kæpˌsjul ) Read this Patient Information before you start taking Budesonide Capsules and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
BUDESONIDE Capsules , is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used to treat mild to moderate Crohn ’ s disease that affects part of the small intestine ( ileum ) and part of the large intestine ( ascending colon ) : • in people with active Crohn ’ s disease • in adults to help keep symptoms from coming back for up to 3 months It is not known if Budesonide Capsules is safe and effective in children under 8 years of age Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
Who should not take BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
Do not take BUDESONIDE Capsules , if : • You are allergic to budesonide or any of the ingredients in BUDESONIDE Capsules .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in BUDESONIDE Capsules .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
Before you take BUDESONIDE Capsules , tells your healthcare provider if you : • have liver problems • are planning to have surgery • have chicken pox or measles or have recently been near anyone with chicken pox or measles • have an infection • have diabetes or glaucoma or have a family history of diabetes or glaucoma • have cataracts • have or had tuberculosis • have high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • have decreased bone mineral density ( osteoporosis ) • have stomach ulcers • have any other medical condition • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
BUDESONIDE Capsules may harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the possible risk to your unborn baby if you take BUDESONIDE Capsules when you are pregnant .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you may be pregnant during your treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if BUDESONIDE Capsules passes into your breast milk or if it will affect your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
BUDESONIDE Capsules and other medicines may affect each other causing side effects .
How should I take BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
• Take BUDESONIDE Capsules exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how many BUDESONIDE Capsules to take .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• Take BUDESONIDE Capsules 1 time each day in the morning .
• Take BUDESONIDE Capsules whole .
Do not chew or crush BUDESONIDE Capsules before swallowing .
• If you take too much BUDESONIDE Capsules call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What should I avoid while taking BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
• Do not drink grapefruit juice during your treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Drinking grapefruit juice can increase the level of BUDESONIDE in your blood .
What are the possible side effects of BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
BUDESONIDE Capsules may cause serious side effects , including : • Effects of having too much corticosteroid medicine in your blood ( hypercorticism ) .
Long - time use of BUDESONIDE Capsules can cause you to have too much corticosteroid medicine in your blood .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of hypercorticism : • acne • bruise easily • rounding of your face ( moon face ) • ankle swelling • thicker or more hair on your body and face • a fatty pad or hump between your shoulders ( buffalo hump ) • pink or purple stretch marks on the skin of your abdomen , thighs , breasts and arms • Adrenal suppression .
When BUDESONIDE Capsules , is taken for a long period of time ( chronic use ) , adrenal suppression can happen .
This is a condition in which the adrenal glands do not make enough steroid hormones .
Symptoms of adrenal suppression include : tiredness , weakness , nausea and vomiting and low blood pressure .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are under stress or have any symptoms of adrenal suppression during treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules .
• Worsening of allergies .
If you take certain other corticosteroid medicines to treat allergies , switching to BUDESONIDE Capsules may cause your allergies to come back .
These allergies may include a skin condition called eczema or inflammation inside your nose ( rhinitis ) .
Tell your healthcare provider if any of your allergies become worse while taking BUDESONIDE Capsules .
• Increased risk of infection .
BUDESONIDE Capsules weakens your immune system .
Taking medicines that weaken your immune system makes you more likely to get infections .
Avoid contact with people who have contagious diseases , such as chicken pox or measles , while taking BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you come in contact with anyone who has chicken pox or measles .
Tell your healthcare provider about any signs or symptoms of infection during treatment with BUDESONIDE Capsules , including : • Fever • chills • pain • feeling tired • aches • nausea and vomiting The most common side effects of BUDESONIDE Capsules , include : • headache • infection in your air passages ( respiratory infection ) • nausea • back pain • indigestion • dizziness • stomach area ( abdominal ) pain • gas • vomiting • tiredness • pain Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of BUDESONIDE Capsules .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4597 .
How should I store BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
• Store BUDESONIDE Capsules , at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep BUDESONIDE Capsules , in a tightly closed container .
Keep BUDESONIDE Capsules , and all medicines out of the reach from children .
General information about BUDESONIDE Capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use BUDESONIDE Capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give BUDESONIDE Capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them . You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about BUDESONIDE Capsules that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in BUDESONIDE Capsules ?
Active ingredient : budesonide Inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , acetyltributyl citrate , lactose monohydrate , methacrylic acid copolymer dispersion , triethyl citrate , sodium hydroxide , talc and sugar spheres .
The capsule shell contains : gelatin , iron oxide red , iron oxide black , iron oxide yellow and titanium dioxide Sugar Spheres contains the following inactive ingredients ; Sucrose and corn starch .
The imprinting ink contains the following nonvolatile components ; black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide and shellac .
Pediatric use information is approved for Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s Entocort EC ( budesonide ) capsules .
However , due to Perrigo Pharma International DAC ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
ENTOCORT is a registered trademark of the Elan Pharma International Limited , a Perrigo Company .
Manufactured By : Appco Pharma LLC Piscataway , New Jersey 08854 Distributed By : Rising Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Saddle Brook , New Jersey 07633 Revised : 07 / 2018 200300 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rising ® NDC 64980 - 255 - 01 Budesonide Capsules ( Enteric Coated ) 3 mg 100 Capsules Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
