INDICATIONS AND USAGE 1 . 1 Indication OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is a combination of hydrocortisone ( a corticosteroid ) , hydroquinone ( a melanin synthesis inhibitor ) , and a tretinoin ( a retinoid ) that is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions age and liver spots , freckles , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation , in the presence of measures for sun avoidance , including the use of sunscreen .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use The safety and efficacy of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream in pregnant women and nursing mothers have not been established .
OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is a combination of hydrocortisone ( a corticosteroid ) , hydroquinone ( a melanin synthesis inhibitor ) , and a tretinoin ( a retinoid ) that is indicated for the gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions age and liver spots , freckles , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation , in the presence of measures for sun avoidance , including the use of sunscreen .
( 1 ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gently wash the face and neck with a mild cleanser .
Rinse and pat the skin dry .
Apply a thin film of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream to the affected area once daily at night or as directed by a doctor .
During the day , use O Skin Sunscreen SPF - 50 , and wear protective clothing .
Avoid sunlight exposure to prevent repigmentation .
OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin film to the affected area once daily at night or as directed by a doctor .
( 2 ) During the day , use O Skin Sunscreen SPF - 50 , and wear protective clothing .
Avoid sunlight exposure .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 1 % / 8 % / 0 . 1 % .
Each gram of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains 10 . 0 mg of hydrocortisone , 80 . 0 mg of hydroquinone , and 1 . 0 mg of tretinoin in a light yellow , hydrophilic cream base .
Cream , 1 % / 8 % / 0 . 1 % .
Each gram of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains 10 . 0 mg of hydrocortisone , 80 . 0 mg of hydroquinone , and 1 . 0 mg of tretinoin .
( 3 ) OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components .
OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to this product or any of its components .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity If anaphylaxis , asthma or other clinically significantly hypersensitivity reactions occur , institute appropriate therapy and discontinue OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream .
Allergic contact dermatitis may also occur .
Since this product contains no sunscreen , an effective broad spectrum sun blocking agent should be used and unnecessary solar exposure avoided , or protective clothing should be worn to cover bleached skin in order to prevent repigmentation from occurring .
5 . 2 Exogenous Ochronosis OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains hydroquinone , which may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy .
Most patients developing this condition are Black , but it may also occur in Caucasians and Hispanics .
5 . 3 .
Effects on Endocrine System Manifestations of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroid while treatment .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , the use of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream should be discontinued .
Recovery of HPA axis function generally occurs upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
5 . 4 Cutaneous Reactions OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains hydroquinone and tretinoin that may cause mild to moderate irritation .
Local irritation , such as skin reddening , peeling , mild burning sensation , dryness , and pruritus may be expected at the site of application .
Transient skin reddening or mild burning sensation does not preclude treatment .
If a reaction suggests hypersensitivity or chemical irritation , discontinue use of the medication and call a doctor .
Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics with drying effects , products with high concentrations of alcohol and astringents , and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream treatment .
Avoid use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
If anaphylaxis , asthma or other clinically significantly hypersensitivity reactions occur , institute appropriate therapy and discontinue OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream .
Allergic contact dermatitis may also occur .
( 5 . 1 ) OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains hydroquinone , which may produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of therapy .
( 5 . 2 ) No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
In case of adverse reaction , call a doctor .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients should avoid medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics with drying effects , products with high concentration of alcohol and astringent , and other irritants or keratolytic drugs while on OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream treatment .
Patients are cautioned on concomitant use of medications that are known to be photosensitizing .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C In general , use of drugs should be reduced to a minimum in pregnancy .
If a patient has been inadvertently exposed to OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream in pregnancy , she should be counseled on the risk of teratogenesis due to this exposure .
The risk of teratogenesis due to topical exposure to OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream may be considered low .
However , exposure during the period of organogenesis in the first trimester is theoretically more likely to produce adverse outcome than in later pregnancy .
Tretinoin is considered to be highly teratogenic upon systemic administration .
Animal reproductive studies are not available with topical hydroquinone .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Corticosteroids , when systemically administered , appear in human milk .
It is not known whether topical application of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities of hydrocortisone , hydroquinone , or tretinoin in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Care should be taken to avoid contact between the infant being nursed and OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains the teratogen , tretinoin , which may cause embryofetal death , altered fetal growth , congenital malformations , and potential neurologic deficits .
OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) 10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions reported from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time , since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains 1 % of hydrocortisone , USP , 8 % of hydroquinone , USP , and 0 . 1 % of tretinoin , USP , in a light yellow , hydrophilic cream base for topical application .
Hydrocortisone is a white to practically white crystalline powder .
Chemically , hydrocortisone is pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - .
Its molecular formula is C21H30O5 ; its molecular weight is 362 . 46 ; its Chemical Abstract Service ( CAS ) registry number is 50 - 23 - 7 .
Hydroquinone is a melanin synthesis inhibitor .
It is prepared from the reduction of p - benzoquinone with sodium bisulfite .
It occurs as fine white needles that darken on exposure to air .
The chemical name for hydroquinone is : 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The molecular formula is C6H6O2 and molecular weight is 110 . 11 .
Tretinoin , a retinoid , is all - trans - retinoic acid formed from the oxidation of the aldehyde group of retinene to a carboxyl group .
It occurs as yellow to light orange crystals or crystalline powder with a characteristic odor of ensilage .
It is highly reactive to light and moisture .
The chemical name for tretinoin is : ( all - E ) - 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethyl - 1 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ) - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - nonatetraenoic acid .
The molecular formula is C20H28O2 and molecular weight is 300 . 44 .
Tretinoin has the following structural formula : OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream contains Active : hydrocortisone 1 % ( 10 mg ) , hydroquinone 8 % ( 80 mg ) , and tretinoin 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) .
Inactive : aloe barbadensis leaf powder , ascorbic acid , BHT , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cetyl alcohol , cyclopentasiloxane , diazolidinyl urea , dimethicone crosspolymer , dimethyl isosorbide , ethylhexyl stearate , glycerin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , kojic acid , laureth - 7 , maltodextrin , PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 dimethicone , pentaclethra macroloba seed oil , phenoxyethanol , polyacrylamide , polyacrylate - 13 , polyisobutene , polysorbate 20 , polysorbate 80 , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol , tocopherol , tocopheryl acetate , triethylene glycol , white petrolatum .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of the active ingredients in OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream in the treatment of melasma is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies of hydroquinone in animals have demonstrated some evidence of carcinogenicity .
The carcinogenic potential of hydroquinone in humans is unknown .
Mutagenesis Mutagenicity studies were not conducted with this combination of active ingredients .
Published studies have demonstrated that hydroquinone is a mutagen and a clastogen .
Treatment with hydroquinone has resulted in positive findings for genetic toxicity in the Ames assay in bacterial strains sensitive to oxidizing mutagens , in in vitro studies in mammalian cells , and in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Tretinoin has been shown to be negative for mutagenesis in the Ames assay .
Additional information regarding the genetic toxicity potential of tretinoin is not available .
Impairment of Fertility No studies of fertility and early embryonic toxicity of this drug product has been performed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream is light yellow in color , and supplied in 28 . 35 g airless bottle , NDC 72864 - 562 - 01 .
Storage : Keep tightly closed .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C – 30 ° C ( 59 ° F – 86 ° F ) away from direct sunlight .
KEEP REFRIGERATED .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Inform patients of the following : Advise patients to change to non - hormonal forms of birth control , if hormonal methods are used .
Use OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream as directed by the health care provider and do not use OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
Avoid exposure to sunlight , sunlamp , or ultraviolet light .
Patients who are consistently exposed to sunlight or skin irritants either through their work environment or habits should exercise particular caution .
Use sunscreen and protective covering ( such as the use of a hat ) over the treated areas .
Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of melasma therapy , as even minimal sunlight sustains melanocytic activity .
Weather extremes , such as heat or cold , may be irritating to patients treated with OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream .
Because of the drying effect of this medication , a moisturizer may be applied to the face in the morning after washing .
Keep OLIVIA QUIDO FIRM & FADE I Cream away from the eyes , nose , angles of the mouth , or open wounds because these areas are more sensitive to the irritant effect .
If local irritation persists or becomes severe , discontinue application of the medication and consult your health care provider .
Seek medical attention if you experience allergic contact dermatitis , blistering , crusting , and severe burning or swelling of the skin and irritation of the mucous membranes of the eyes , nose , and mouth .
If the medication is applied excessively , marked redness , peeling , or discomfort may occur .
Wash your hands after each application .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
