WARNING : RISK OF ACUTE BRONCHOSPASM IN PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC LUNG DISEASE • Acute bronchospasm has been observed in patients with asthma and COPD using AFREZZA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease such as asthma or COPD [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
• Before initiating AFREZZA , perform a detailed medical history , physical examination , and spirometry ( FEV 1 ) to identify potential lung disease in all patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF ACUTE BRONCHOSPASM IN PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC LUNG DISEASE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Acute bronchospasm has been observed in patients with asthma and COPD using AFREZZA .
( 5 . 1 ) • AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease such as asthma or COPD .
( 4 ) • Before initiating AFREZZA , perform a detailed medical history , physical examination , and spirometry ( FEV 1 ) to identify potential lung disease in all patients .
( 2 . 5 ) , ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AFREZZA ® is a rapid acting inhaled insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult patients with diabetes mellitus .
• AFREZZA ® is a rapid acting inhaled insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adult patients with diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) Important limitations of use : • In patients with type 1 diabetes , must use with a long - acting insulin ( 1 ) • Not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis ( 1 ) • Not recommended in patients who smoke ( 1 ) Limitations of Use • AFREZZA is not a substitute for long - acting insulin .
AFREZZA must be used in combination with long - acting insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
• AFREZZA is not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
• The safety and efficacy of AFREZZA in patients who smoke have not been established .
The use of AFREZZA is not recommended in patients who smoke or who have recently stopped smoking .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer using a single inhalation per cartridge ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer at the beginning of a meal ( 2 . 2 ) • Dosing must be individualized ( 2 . 2 ) • Before initiating , perform a detailed medical history , physical examination , and spirometry ( FEV 1 ) in all patients to identify potential lung disease ( 2 . 5 ) 2 . 1 Route of Administration AFREZZA should only be administered via oral inhalation using the AFREZZA Inhaler .
AFREZZA is administered using a single inhalation per cartridge .
2 . 2 Dosage Information Administer AFREZZA at the beginning of the meal .
Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to AFREZZA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Step 1 : Starting Mealtime Dose • Insulin Naïve Individuals : Start on 4 units of AFREZZA at each meal .
• Individuals Using Subcutaneous Mealtime ( Prandial ) Insulin : Determine the appropriate AFREZZA dose for each meal by converting from the injected dose using Figure 1 .
• Individuals Using Subcutaneous Pre - mixed Insulin : Estimate the mealtime injected dose by dividing half of the total daily injected pre - mixed insulin dose equally among the three meals of the day .
Convert each estimated injected mealtime dose to an appropriate AFREZZA dose using Figure 1 .
Administer half of the total daily injected pre - mixed dose as an injected basal insulin dose .
Step 2 : Mealtime Dose Adjustment Adjust the dosage of AFREZZA based on the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Carefully monitor blood glucose control in patients requiring high doses of AFREZZA .
If , in these patients , blood glucose control is not achieved with increased AFREZZA doses , consider use of subcutaneous mealtime insulin .
Figure 1 .
Mealtime AFREZZA Starting Dose Conversion Table [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 3 AFREZZA Administration for Doses Exceeding 12 units For AFREZZA doses exceeding 12 units , inhalations from multiple cartridges are necessary .
To achieve the required total mealtime dose , patients should use a combination of 4 unit , 8 unit and 12 unit cartridges .
Examples of cartridge combinations for doses of up to 24 units are shown in Figure 1 .
For doses above 24 units , combinations of different multiple cartridges can be used .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment due to Drug Interactions Dosage adjustment may be needed when AFREZZA is coadministered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
2 . 5 Lung Function Assessment Prior to Administration AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease because of the risk of acute bronchospasm in these patients .
Before initiating AFREZZA , perform a medical history , physical examination and spirometry ( FEV 1 ) in all patients to identify potential lung disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 6 Important Administration Instructions See Patient Instructions for Use for complete administration instructions with illustrations .
Keep the inhaler level with the white mouthpiece on top and purple base on the bottom after a cartridge has been inserted into the inhaler .
Loss of drug effect can occur if the inhaler is turned upside down , held with the mouthpiece pointing down , shaken ( or dropped ) after the cartridge has been inserted but before the dose has been administered .
If any of the above occur , the cartridge should be replaced before use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder is available as 4 unit , 8 unit and 12 unit single use cartridges to be administered via oral inhalation with the AFREZZA Inhaler only [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
AFREZZA is available as single - use cartridges of : ( 3 ) • 4 units • 8 units • 12 units 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with the following : • During episodes of hypoglycemia • Chronic lung disease , such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , because of the risk of acute bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity to regular human insulin or any of the AFREZZA excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • During episodes of hypoglycemia ( 4 ) • Chronic lung disease , such as asthma , or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to regular human insulin or any of the AFREZZA excipients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Acute Bronchospasm : Acute bronchospasm has been observed in patients with asthma and COPD .
Before initiating , perform spirometry ( FEV 1 ) in all patients .
Do not use in patients with chronic lung disease .
( 2 . 5 , 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Change in Insulin Regimen : Carry out under close medical supervision and increase frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Increase frequency of glucose monitoring with changes to : insulin dosage , co - administered glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; and in patients with renal or hepatic impairment and hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Decline in Pulmonary Function : Assess pulmonary function ( e . g . , spirometry ) before initiating , after 6 months of therapy , and annually , even in the absence of pulmonary symptoms .
( 2 . 5 , 5 . 4 ) • Lung Cancer : AFREZZA should not be used in patients with active lung cancer .
In patients with a history of lung cancer or at risk for lung cancer , the benefit of AFREZZA use should outweigh this potential risk .
( 5 . 5 ) • Diabetic Ketoacidosis : More patients using AFREZZA experienced diabetic ketoacidosis in clinical trials .
In patients at risk for DKA , monitor and change to alternate route of insulin delivery , if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including AFREZZA .
Discontinue AFREZZA , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 8 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Acute Bronchospasm in Patients with Chronic Lung Disease Because of the risk of acute bronchospasm , AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients with chronic lung disease such as asthma or COPD [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Before initiating therapy with AFREZZA , evaluate all patients with a medical history , physical examination and spirometry ( FEV 1 ) to identify potential underlying lung disease .
Acute bronchospasm has been observed following AFREZZA dosing in patients with asthma and patients with COPD .
In a study of patients with asthma , bronchoconstriction and wheezing following AFREZZA dosing was reported in 29 % ( 5 out of 17 ) and 0 % ( 0 out of 13 ) of patients with and without a diagnosis of asthma , respectively .
In this study , a mean decline in FEV 1 of 400 mL was observed 15 minutes after a single dose in patients with asthma .
In a study of patients with COPD ( n = 8 ) , a mean decline in FEV 1 of 200 mL was observed 18 minutes after a single dose of AFREZZA .
The long - term safety and efficacy of AFREZZA in patients with chronic lung disease have not been established .
5 . 2 Changes in Insulin Regimen Glucose monitoring is essential for patients receiving insulin therapy .
Changes in insulin strength , manufacturer , type , or method of administration may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
These changes should be made under close medical supervision and the frequency of blood glucose monitoring should be increased .
Concomitant oral antidiabetic treatment may need to be adjusted .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including AFREZZA .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening , or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
The timing of hypoglycemia usually reflects the time - action profile of the administered insulin formulation .
AFREZZA has a distinct time action profile [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 ) ] , which impacts the timing of hypoglycemia .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly and symptoms may differ across individuals and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using certain medications [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to co - administered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Decline in Pulmonary Function AFREZZA causes a decline in lung function over time as measured by FEV 1 .
In clinical trials excluding patients with chronic lung disease and lasting up to 2 years , AFREZZA - treated patients experienced a small [ 40 mL ( 95 % CI : - 80 , - 1 ) ] but greater FEV 1 decline than comparator - treated patients .
The FEV 1 decline was noted within the first 3 months , and persisted for the entire duration of therapy ( up to 2 years of observation ) .
In this population , the annual rate of FEV 1 decline did not appear to worsen with increased duration of use .
The effects of AFREZZA on pulmonary function for treatment duration longer than 2 years has not been established .
There are insufficient data in long term studies to draw conclusions regarding reversal of the effect on FEV 1 after discontinuation of AFREZZA .
The observed changes in FEV 1 were similar in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes .
Assess pulmonary function ( e . g . , spirometry ) at baseline , after the first 6 months of therapy , and annually thereafter , even in the absence of pulmonary symptoms .
In patients who have a decline of ≥ 20 % in FEV 1 from baseline , consider discontinuing AFREZZA .
Consider more frequent monitoring of pulmonary function in patients with pulmonary symptoms such as wheezing , bronchospasm , breathing difficulties , or persistent or recurring cough .
If symptoms persist , discontinue AFREZZA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Lung Cancer In clinical trials , two cases of lung cancer , one in controlled trials and one in uncontrolled trials ( 2 cases in 2 , 750 patient - years of exposure ) , were observed in participants exposed to AFREZZA while no cases of lung cancer were observed in comparators ( 0 cases in 2 , 169 patient - years of exposure ) .
In both cases , a prior history of heavy tobacco use was identified as a risk factor for lung cancer .
Two additional cases of lung cancer ( squamous cell and lung blastoma ) occurred in non - smokers exposed to AFREZZA and were reported by investigators after clinical trial completion .
These data are insufficient to determine whether AFREZZA has an effect on lung or respiratory tract tumors .
In patients with active lung cancer , a prior history of lung cancer , or in patients at risk for lung cancer , consider whether the benefits of AFREZZA use outweigh this potential risk .
5 . 6 Diabetic Ketoacidosis In clinical trials enrolling subjects with type 1 diabetes , diabetic ketoacidosis ( DKA ) was more common in subjects receiving AFREZZA ( 0 . 43 % ; n = 13 ) than in subjects receiving comparators ( 0 . 14 % ; n = 3 ) .
In patients at risk for DKA , such as those with an acute illness or infection , increase the frequency of glucose monitoring and consider delivery of insulin using an alternate route of administration if indicated [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
5 . 7 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including AFREZZA .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue AFREZZA , treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
AFREZZA is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to AFREZZA or any of its excipients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia All insulin products , including AFREZZA , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations and patients receiving intravenously administered insulin ) .
5 . 9 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including AFREZZA , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Acute bronchospasm in patients with chronic lung disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Decline in pulmonary function [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Lung cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Diabetic ketoacidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most common adverse reactions associated with AFREZZA ( 2 % or greater incidence ) are hypoglycemia , cough , and throat pain or irritation ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MannKind at 1 - 877 - 323 - 8505 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure of 3017 patients to AFREZZA and include 1026 patients with type 1 diabetes and 1991 patients with type 2 diabetes .
The mean exposure duration was 8 . 17 months for the overall population and 8 . 16 months and 8 . 18 months for type 1 and 2 diabetes patients , respectively .
In the overall population , 1874 were exposed to AFREZZA for 6 months and 724 for greater than one year .
620 and 1254 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes , respectively , were exposed to AFREZZA for up to 6 months .
238 and 486 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes , respectively , were exposed to AFREZZA for greater than one year ( median exposure = 1 . 8 years ) .
AFREZZA was studied in placebo and active - controlled trials ( n = 3 and n = 10 , respectively ) .
The mean age of the population was 50 . 2 years and 20 patients were older than 75 years of age .
50 . 8 % of the population were men ; 82 . 6 % were White , 1 . 8 % were Asian , 4 . 9 % were Black or African American and 9 . 7 % were Hispanic .
At baseline , the type 1 diabetes population had diabetes for an average of 16 . 6 years and had a mean HbA1c of 8 . 3 % , and the type 2 diabetes population had diabetes for an average of 10 . 7 years and had a mean HbA1c of 8 . 8 % .
At baseline , 33 . 4 % of the population reported peripheral neuropathy , 32 . 0 % reported retinopathy and 19 . 6 % had a history of cardiovascular disease .
Table 1 shows common adverse reactions , excluding hypoglycemia , associated with the use of AFREZZA in the pool of controlled trials in type 2 diabetes patients .
These adverse reactions were not present at baseline , occurred more commonly on AFREZZA than on placebo and / or comparator and occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with AFREZZA .
Table 1 .
Common Adverse Reactions in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( excluding Hypoglycemia ) Treated with AFREZZA Placebo * AFREZZA Non - placebo comparators ( n = 290 ) ( n = 1991 ) ( n = 1363 ) Cough 19 . 7 % 25 . 6 % 5 . 4 % Throat pain or irritation 3 . 8 % 4 . 4 % 0 . 9 % Headache 2 . 8 % 3 . 1 % 1 . 8 % Diarrhea 1 . 4 % 2 . 7 % 2 . 2 % Productive cough 1 . 0 % 2 . 2 % 0 . 9 % Fatigue 0 . 7 % 2 . 0 % 0 . 6 % Nausea 0 . 3 % 2 . 0 % 1 . 0 % * Carrier particle without insulin was used as placebo [ see Description ( 11 . 1 ) ] Table 2 shows common adverse reactions , excluding hypoglycemia , associated with the use of AFREZZA in the pool of active - controlled trials in type 1 diabetes patients .
These adverse reactions were not present at baseline , occurred more commonly on AFREZZA than on comparator , and occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with AFREZZA .
Table 2 .
Common Adverse Reactions in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus ( excluding Hypoglycemia ) Treated with AFREZZA Subcutaneous Insulin ( n = 835 ) AFREZZA ( n = 1026 ) Cough 4 . 9 % 29 . 4 % Throat pain or irritation 1 . 9 % 5 . 5 % Headache 2 . 8 % 4 . 7 % Pulmonary function test decreased 1 . 0 % 2 . 8 % Bronchitis 2 . 0 % 2 . 5 % Urinary tract infection 1 . 9 % 2 . 3 % Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including AFREZZA [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The incidence of severe and non - severe hypoglycemia of AFREZZA versus placebo in patients with type 2 diabetes is shown in Table 3 .
A hypoglycemic episode was recorded if a patient reported symptoms of hypoglycemia with or without a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia .
Severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event with symptoms consistent with hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person and associated with either a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia or prompt recovery after treatment for hypoglycemia .
Table 3 .
Incidence of Severe and Non - Severe Hypoglycemia in a Placebo - Controlled Study of Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Placebo ( N = 176 ) AFREZZA ( N = 177 ) Severe Hypoglycemia 1 . 7 % 5 . 1 % Non - Severe Hypoglycemia 30 % 67 % Cough Approximately 27 % of patients treated with AFREZZA reported cough , compared to approximately 5 . 2 % of patients treated with comparator .
In clinical trials , cough was the most common reason for discontinuation of AFREZZA therapy ( 2 . 8 % of AFREZZA - treated patients ) .
Pulmonary Function Decline In clinical trials lasting up to 2 years , excluding patients with chronic lung disease , patients treated with AFREZZA had a 40 mL ( 95 % CI : - 80 , - 1 ) greater decline from baseline in forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV 1 ) compared to patients treated with comparator anti - diabetes treatments .
The decline occurred during the first 3 months of therapy and persisted over 2 years ( Figure 2 ) .
A decline in FEV 1 of ≥ 15 % occurred in 6 % of AFREZZA - treated subjects compared to 3 % of comparator - treated subjects .
Figure 2 .
Mean ( + / - SE ) Change in FEV 1 ( Liters ) from Baseline for Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes Patients [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Weight Gain Weight gain may occur with some insulin therapies , including AFREZZA .
Weight gain has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glycosuria .
In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] , there was a mean 0 . 49 kg weight gain among AFREZZA - treated patients compared with a mean 1 . 13 kg weight loss among placebo - treated patients .
Antibody Production Increases in anti - insulin antibody concentrations have been observed in patients treated with AFREZZA .
Increases in anti - insulin antibodies are observed more frequently with AFREZZA than with subcutaneously injected mealtime insulins .
Presence of antibody did not correlate with reduced efficacy , as measured by HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose , or specific adverse reactions .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of AFREZZA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : bronchospasm .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) Anti - Adrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 7 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia associated with AFREZZA use may be increased with antidiabetic agents , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , pentoxifylline , pramlintide , propoxyphene , salicylates , somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when AFREZZA is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 2 Drugs That May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of AFREZZA The glucose lowering effect of AFREZZA may be decreased when co - administered with atypical antipsychotics ( e . g . , olanzapine and clozapine ) , corticosteroids , danazol , diuretics , estrogens , glucagon , isoniazid , niacin , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , protease inhibitors , somatropin , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , albuterol , epinephrine , terbutaline ) and thyroid hormones .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when AFREZZA is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 3 Drugs That May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of AFREZZA The glucose lowering effect of AFREZZA may be increased or decreased when co - administered with alcohol , beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when AFREZZA is co - administered with these drugs .
7 . 4 Drugs That May Affect Hypoglycemia Signs and Symptoms The signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be blunted when beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine are co - administered with AFREZZA .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited available data with AFREZZA use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine drug - associated risks for adverse developmental outcomes .
Available information from published studies with human insulin use during pregnancy has not reported a clear association with human insulin and adverse developmental outcomes ( see Data ) .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , there were no adverse developmental outcomes with subcutaneous administration of carrier particles ( vehicle without insulin ) to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses 14 - 21 times the maximum recommended daily dose ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 - 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes with HbA1c > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 - 25 % in women with HbA1c > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , stillbirth , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , still birth , and macrosomia - related morbidity .
Data Human Data There are limited data with AFREZZA use in pregnant women .
Published data do not report a clear association with human insulin and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when human insulin is used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations including small sample size and lack of blinding .
Animal Data In pregnant rats given subcutaneous doses of 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day of carrier particles ( vehicle without insulin ) from gestation day 6 through 17 ( organogenesis ) , no major malformations were observed at up to 100 mg / kg / day ( a systemic exposure 14 - 21 times the human systemic exposure , resulting from the maximum recommended daily dose of 99 mg AFREZZA based on AUC ) .
In pregnant rabbits given subcutaneous doses of 2 , 10 , and 100 mg / kg / day of carrier particles ( vehicle without insulin ) from gestation day 7 through 19 ( organogenesis ) , adverse maternal effects were observed at all dose groups ( at human systemic exposure following a 99 mg AFREZZA dose , based on AUC ) .
In pregnant rats given subcutaneous doses of 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day of carrier particles ( vehicle without insulin ) from gestation day 7 through lactation day 20 ( weaning ) , decreased epididymis and testes weights , however , no decrease in fertility was noted , and impaired learning were observed in pups at ≥ 30 mg / kg / day ( a systemic exposure 6 times human systemic exposure at the maximum daily AFREZZA dose of 99 mg based on AUC ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of AFREZZA in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
One small published study reported that exogenous insulin was present in human milk .
No adverse effects in infants were noted .
The carrier particles are present in rat milk ( see Data ) .
Potential adverse effects that are related to inhalational administration of AFREZZA are unlikely to be associated with potential exposure of AFREZZA through breast milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for AFREZZA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from AFREZZA or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Subcutaneous administration of the carrier particle in lactating rats resulted in excretion of the carrier particle in rat milk at levels that were approximately 10 % of the maternal exposure .
Given the results of the rat study , it is highly likely that the insulin and carrier in AFREZZA are excreted in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use AFREZZA has not been studied in patients younger than 18 years of age .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the AFREZZA clinical studies , 381 patients were 65 years of age or older , of which 20 were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients over 65 and younger patients .
Pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic studies to assess the effect of age have not been conducted .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AFREZZA has not been studied .
Frequent glucose monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary for AFREZZA in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of AFREZZA has not been studied .
Some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with renal failure .
Frequent glucose monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary for AFREZZA in patients with renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia can usually be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise , may be needed .
Severe episodes of hypoglycemia with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
After apparent clinical recovery from hypoglycemia , continued observation and additional carbohydrate intake may be necessary to avoid recurrence of hypoglycemia .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION 11 . 1 AFREZZA Cartridges AFREZZA consists of single - use plastic cartridges filled with a white powder containing insulin ( human ) , which is administered via oral inhalation using the AFREZZA Inhaler only .
AFREZZA cartridges contain human insulin produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli ( K12 ) .
Chemically , human insulin has the empirical formula C 257 H 383 N 65 O 77 S 6 and a molecular weight of 5808 .
Human insulin has the following primary amino acid sequence : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Insulin is adsorbed onto carrier particles consisting of fumaryl diketopiperazine ( FDKP ) and polysorbate 80 .
AFREZZA Inhalation Powder is a dry powder supplied as 4 unit , 8 unit or 12 unit cartridges .
The 4 unit cartridge contains 0 . 35 mg of insulin .
The 8 unit cartridge contains 0 . 7 mg of insulin .
The 12 unit cartridge contains 1 mg of insulin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 . 2 AFREZZA Inhaler The AFREZZA Inhaler is breath - powered by the patient .
When the patient inhales through the device , the powder is aerosolized and delivered to the lung .
The amount of AFREZZA delivered to the lung will depend on individual patient factors .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Insulin lowers blood glucose levels by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulin inhibits lipolysis in adipocytes , inhibits proteolysis , and enhances protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The time course of insulin action ( i . e . , glucose lowering ) may vary considerably in different individuals or within the same individual .
The average pharmacodynamic profile [ i . e . , glucose lowering effect measured by glucose infusion rate ( GIR ) over time in a euglycemic clamp study ] for a single 4 , 12 , and 48 unit dose of AFREZZA in 30 patients with type 1 diabetes is shown in Figure 3 ( A ) , and key characteristics surrounding the timing of the effects are described in Table 4 : Table 4 .
Timing of insulin effect ( i . e . , mean pharmacodynamics effect ) after administration for a single dose of 4 , 12 , and 48 units of AFREZZA in patients ( N = 30 ) with T1DM and corresponding to the data shown in Figure 3 ( A ) Parameter for Insulin Effect AFREZZA 4 units AFREZZA 12 units AFREZZA 48 units Time to first measurable effect ~ 12 minutes ~ 12 minutes ~ 12 minutes Time to peak effect ~ 35 minutes ~ 45 minutes ~ 55 minutes Time for effect to return to baseline ~ 90 minutes ~ 180 minutes ~ 270 minutes Figure 3 .
Mean Insulin Effect ( Baseline - Corrected Glucose Infusion Rate ; A ) and Pharmacokinetic ( Baseline - Corrected Serum Insulin Concentrations ; B ) profiles after Administration of AFREZZA 4 , 12 , and 48 units in Type 1 Diabetes Patients ( N = 30 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] On average , the pharmacodynamics effect of AFREZZA , measured as area under the glucose infusion rate – time curve ( AUC GIR ) increased linearly with doses up to 48 units ( 106 , 387 , and 1581 mg / kg for 4 , 12 , and 48 units doses , respectively ) .
Intrapatient variability in AUC GIR and GIR max is approximately 28 % ( 95 % CI 21 - 42 % ) and 27 % ( 95 % CI 20 - 40 % ) , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetic profiles for orally inhaled AFREZZA 4 , 12 , and 48 units from a study in 30 patients with type 1 diabetes are shown in Figure 3 ( B ) .
The time to maximum serum insulin concentration ranges from 10 - 20 minutes after oral inhalation of 4 to 48 units of AFREZZA .
Serum insulin concentrations declined to baseline by approximately 60 to 240 minutes for these dose levels .
Disposition Systemic insulin disposition ( apparent terminal half - life ) following oral inhalation of 4 to 48 units of AFREZZA was 120 - 206 minutes .
Variability Intrapatient variability in insulin exposure measured by AUC and C max is approximately 16 % ( 95 % CI 12 - 23 % ) and 21 % ( 95 % CI 16 - 30 % ) , respectively .
Metabolism and Elimination The metabolism and elimination of AFREZZA are comparable to regular human insulin .
Carrier Particles Clinical pharmacology studies showed that carrier particles [ see Description ( 11 . 1 ) ] are not metabolized and are eliminated unchanged in the urine following the lung absorption .
Following oral inhalation of AFREZZA , a mean of 39 % of the inhaled dose of carrier particles was distributed to the lungs and a mean of 7 % of the dose was swallowed .
The swallowed fraction was not absorbed from the GI tract and was eliminated unchanged in the feces .
Drug Interaction : Bronchodilators and Inhaled Steroids Albuterol increased the AUC insulin administered by AFREZZA by 25 % in patients with asthma .
Effect of fluticasone on insulin exposures following AFREZZA administration has not been evaluated in patients with asthma ; however , no significant change in insulin exposure was observed in a study in healthy volunteers .
Frequent glucose monitoring and dose reduction may be necessary for AFREZZA if it is co - administered with albuterol .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 104 week carcinogenicity study , rats were given doses up to 46 mg / kg / day of the carrier and up to 1 . 23 mg / kg / day of insulin , by nose - only inhalation .
No increased incidence of tumors was observed at systemic exposures equivalent to the insulin at a maximum daily AFREZZA dose of 99 mg based on a comparison of relative body surface areas across species .
No increased incidence of tumors was observed in a 26 week carcinogenicity study in transgenic mice ( Tg - ras - H2 ) given doses up to 75 mg / kg / day of carrier and up to 5 mg / kg / day of AFREZZA .
AFREZZA was not genotoxic in Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay and in the chromosome aberration assay , using human peripheral lymphocytes with or without metabolic activation .
The carrier alone was not genotoxic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
In female rats given subcutaneous doses of 10 , 30 , and 100 mg / kg / day of carrier ( vehicle without insulin ) beginning 2 weeks prior to mating until gestation day 7 , there were no adverse effects on male fertility at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( a systemic exposure 14 – 21 times that following the maximum daily AFREZZA dose of 99 mg based on AUC ) .
In female rats there was increased pre - and post - implantation loss at 100 mg / kg / day but not at 30 mg / kg / day ( 14 – 21 times higher systemic exposure than the maximum daily AFREZZA dose of 99 mg based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Overview of Clinical Studies of AFREZZA for Diabetes Mellitus AFREZZA has been studied in adults with type 1 diabetes in combination with basal insulin .
The efficacy of AFREZZA in type 1 diabetes patients was compared to insulin aspart in combination with basal insulin .
AFREZZA has been studied in adults with type 2 diabetes in combination with oral antidiabetic drugs .
The efficacy of AFREZZA in type 2 diabetes patients was compared to placebo inhalation .
14 . 2 Type 1 Diabetes Patients with inadequately controlled type 1 diabetes participated in a 24 - week , open - label , active - controlled study to evaluate the glucose lowering effect of mealtime AFREZZA used in combination with a basal insulin .
Following a 4 - week basal insulin optimization period , 344 patients were randomized to AFREZZA ( n = 174 ) or insulin aspart ( n = 170 ) administered at each meal of the day .
Mealtime insulin doses were titrated to glycemic goals for the first 12 weeks and kept stable for the last 12 weeks of the study .
At Week 24 , treatment with basal insulin and mealtime AFREZZA provided a mean reduction in HbA1c that met the pre - specified non - inferiority margin of 0 . 4 % .
AFREZZA provided less HbA1c reduction than insulin aspart , and the difference was statistically significant .
More subjects in the insulin aspart group achieved the HbA1c target of ≤ 7 % ( Table 5 ) .
Table 5 .
Results at Week 24 in an Active - Controlled Study of Mealtime AFREZZA plus Basal Insulin in Adults with Type 1 DiabetesEfficacy Parameter AFREZZA + Basal Insulin ( N = 174 ) Insulin Aspart + Basal Insulin ( N = 170 ) HbA 1 c ( % ) Baseline ( adjusted mean [ 1 ] ) 7 . 94 7 . 92 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null , [ 2 ] ) - 0 . 21 - 0 . 40 Difference from insulin aspart ( adjusted mean null , null ) 0 . 19 ( 95 % CI ) ( 0 . 02 , 0 . 36 ) Percentage of patients achieving HbA1c ≤ 7 % [ 3 ] 13 . 8 27 . 1 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( adjusted mean null ) 153 . 9 151 . 6 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null , null ) - 25 . 3 10 . 2 Difference from insulin aspart ( adjusted mean null , null ) - 35 . 4 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 56 . 3 , - 14 . 6 ) [ 1 ] Adjusted mean was obtained using a Mixed Model Repeated Measures ( MMRM ) approach with HbA1c or FPG as the dependent variable and treatment , visit , region , basal insulin stratum , and treatment by visit interaction as fixed factors , and corresponding baseline as a covariate .
An autoregression ( 1 ) [ AR ( 1 ) ] covariance structure was used .
[ 2 ] Data at 24 weeks were available from 131 ( 75 % ) and 150 ( 88 % ) subjects randomized to the AFREZZA and insulin aspart groups , respectively .
[ 3 ] The percentage was calculated based on the number of patients randomized to the trial .
14 . 3 Type 2 Diabetes A total of 479 adult patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on optimal / maximally tolerated doses of metformin only , or 2 or more oral antidiabetic ( OAD ) agents participated in a 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study .
Following a 6 - week run - in period , 353 patients were randomized to AFREZZA ( n = 177 ) or an inhaled placebo powder without insulin ( n = 176 ) .
Insulin doses were titrated for the first 12 weeks and kept stable for the last 12 weeks of the study .
OADs doses were kept stable .
At Week 24 , treatment with AFREZZA plus OADs provided a mean reduction in HbA1c that was statistically significantly greater compared to the HbA1c reduction observed in the placebo group ( Table 6 ) .
Table 6 .
Results at Week 24 in a Placebo - Controlled Study of AFREZZA in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Inadequately Controlled on Oral Antidiabetic AgentsEfficacy Parameter AFREZZA + Oral Anti - Diabetic Agents ( N = 177 ) Placebo + Oral Anti - Diabetic Agents ( N = 176 ) HbA 1 c ( % ) Baseline ( adjusted mean [ 1 ] ) 8 . 25 8 . 27 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null , [ 2 ] ) - 0 . 82 - 0 . 42 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null , null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 40 ( - 0 . 57 , - 0 . 23 ) Percentage ( % ) of patients achieving HbA 1 C ≤ 7 % [ 3 ] 32 . 2 15 . 3 Fasting Plasma Glucose ( mg / dL ) Baseline ( adjusted mean null ) 175 . 9 175 . 2 Change from baseline ( adjusted mean null , null ) - 11 . 2 - 3 . 8 Difference from placebo ( adjusted mean null , null ) ( 95 % CI ) - 7 . 4 ( - 18 . 0 , 3 . 2 ) [ 1 ] Adjusted mean was obtained using a Mixed Model Repeated Measures ( MMRM ) approach with HbA1c or FPG as the dependent variable and treatment , visit , region , and treatment by visit interaction as fixed factors , and corresponding baseline as a covariate .
An autoregression ( 1 ) [ AR ( 1 ) ] covariance structure was used .
[ 2 ] Data at 24 weeks without rescue therapy were available from 139 ( 79 % ) and 129 ( 73 % ) subjects randomized to the AFREZZA and placebo groups , respectively .
[ 3 ] The percentage was calculated based on the number of patients randomized to the trial .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder is available as 4 unit , 8 unit and 12 unit single - use cartridges .
Three cartridges are contained in a single cavity of a blister strip .
Each card contains 5 blister strips separated by perforations for a total of 15 cartridges .
For convenience , the perforation allows users to remove a single strip containing 3 cartridges .
Two cards of the same cartridge strength are packaged in a foil laminate overwrap ( 30 cartridges per foil package ) .
The cartridges are color - coded , blue for 4 units , green for 8 units and yellow for 12 units .
Each cartridge is marked with " afrezza " and " 4 units " , " 8 units " or " 12 units " .
The AFREZZA Inhaler is individually packaged in a clear overwrap .
The inhaler is fully assembled with a removable mouthpiece cover .
The AFREZZA Inhaler can be used for up to 15 days from the date of first use .
After 15 days of use , the inhaler must be discarded and replaced with a new inhaler .
AFREZZA is available in the following configurations : • NDC 47918 - 874 - 90 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder : 90 − 4 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers • NDC 47918 - 878 - 90 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder : 90 − 8 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers • NDC 47918 - 891 - 90 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder : 90 − 12 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers • NDC 47918 - 898 - 18 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder : 180 cartridges ; 90 – 8 unit cartridges and 90 - 12 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers • NDC 47918 - 880 - 18 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder : 180 cartridges ; 90 – 4 unit cartridges and 90 - 8 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers ( Titration Pack ) • NDC 47918 - 902 - 18 , AFREZZA ( insulin human ) Inhalation Powder ; 180 cartridges ; 60 – 4 unit cartridges , 60 – 8 unit cartridges and 60 – 12 unit cartridges and 2 inhalers ( Titration Pack ) Storage Not in Use : Refrigerated Storage 2 – 8ºC ( 36 – 46ºF ) Sealed ( Unopened ) Foil Package May be stored until the Expiration Date [ 1 ] Sealed ( Unopened ) Blister Cards + Strips Must be used within 1 month null [ 1 ] If a foil package , blister card or strip is not refrigerated , the contents must be used within 10 days .
In Use : Room Temperature Storage 25ºC ( 77ºF ) , excursions permitted 15 – 30ºC ( 59 – 86ºF ) Sealed ( Unopened ) Blister Cards + Strips Must be used within 10 days Opened Strips Must be used within 3 days Do not put a blister card or strip back into the refrigerator after being stored at room temperature .
Inhaler Storage : Store at 2 – 25ºC ( 36 – 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted .
Inhaler may be stored refrigerated , but should be at room temperature before use .
Handling : Before use , cartridges should be at room temperature for 10 minutes .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Instructions Instruct patients to read the Medication Guide before starting AFREZZA therapy and to reread it each time the prescription is renewed , because information may change .
Instruct patients to inform their healthcare provider or pharmacist if they develop any unusual symptom , or if any known symptom persists or worsens .
Inform patients of the potential risks and benefits of AFREZZA and of alternative modes of therapy .
Inform patients about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , regular physical activity , periodic blood glucose monitoring and HbA1c testing , recognition and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , and assessment for diabetes complications .
Advise patients to seek medical advice promptly during periods of stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , as medication requirements may change .
Instruct patients to use AFREZZA only with the AFREZZA inhaler .
Inform patients that the most common adverse reactions associated with the use of AFREZZA are hypoglycemia , cough , and throat pain or irritation .
Advise women with diabetes to inform their physician if they are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant while using AFREZZA .
Acute Bronchospasm in Patients with Chronic Lung Disease Advise patients to inform their physicians if they have a history of lung disease , because AFREZZA should not be used in patients with chronic lung disease ( e . g . , asthma , COPD , or other chronic lung disease ( s ) ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients that if they experience any respiratory difficulty after inhalation of AFREZZA , they should report it to their physician immediately for assessment .
Hypoglycemia Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper inhalation technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia especially at initiation of AFREZZA therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Decline in Pulmonary Function and Monitoring Inform patients that AFREZZA can cause a decline in lung function and their lung function will be evaluated by spirometry before initiation of AFREZZA treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Lung Cancer Inform patients to promptly report any signs or symptoms potentially related to lung cancer [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Diabetic Ketoacidosis Instruct patients to carefully monitor their blood glucose during illness , infection , and other risk situations for diabetic ketoacidosis and to contact their healthcare provider if their blood glucose control worsens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions can occur with insulin therapy including AFREZZA .
Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
AFREZZA is a registered trademark of MannKind Corporation Patented .
See http : / / mannkindcorp . com / patent - notices MannKind Corporation Danbury , CT 06810 Medication Guide AFREZZA ® ( uh - FREZZ - uh ) ( insulin human ) inhalation powder What is the most important information I should know about AFREZZA ?
AFREZZA can cause serious side effects , including : • Sudden lung problems ( bronchospasms ) .
Do not use AFREZZA if you have long - term ( chronic ) lung problems such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Before starting AFREZZA , your healthcare provider will give you a breathing test to check how your lungs are working .
What is AFREZZA ?
• AFREZZA is a man - made insulin that is breathed - in through your lungs ( inhaled ) and is used to control high blood sugar in adults with diabetes mellitus .
• AFREZZA is not for use in place of long - acting insulin .
AFREZZA must be used with long - acting insulin in people who have type 1 diabetes mellitus .
• AFREZZA is not for use to treat diabetic ketoacidosis .
• It is not known if AFREZZA is safe and effective for use in people who smoke .
AFREZZA is not for use in people who smoke or have recently stopped smoking ( less than 6 months ) .
• It is not known if AFREZZA is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not use AFREZZA ?
Do not use AFREZZA if you : • Have chronic lung problems such as asthma or COPD .
• Are allergic to regular human insulin or any of the ingredients in AFREZZA .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in AFREZZA .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using AFREZZA ?
Before using AFREZZA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • Have lung problems such as asthma or COPD • Have or have had lung cancer • Are using any inhaled medications • Smoke or have recently stopped smoking • Have kidney or liver problems • Are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or are breastfeeding .
AFREZZA may harm your unborn or breastfeeding baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins or herbal supplements .
Before you start using AFREZZA , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use AFREZZA ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your AFREZZA .
• Take AFREZZA exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much AFREZZA to use and when to use it .
• Know the strength of AFREZZA you use .
Do not change the amount of AFREZZA you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Take AFREZZA at the beginning of your meal .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugar should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
• Keep AFREZZA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Your dose of AFREZZA may need to change because of : • Change in level of physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while using AFREZZA ?
While using AFREZZA do not : • Drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how AFREZZA affects you • Drink alcohol or use over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol • Smoke What are the possible side effects of AFREZZA ?
AFREZZA may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about AFREZZA ? "
• Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms that may indicate low blood sugar include : • dizziness or light - headedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability or mood change , hunger .
• Decreased lung function .
Your healthcare provider should check how your lungs are working before you start using AFREZZA , 6 months after you start using it and yearly after that .
• Lung cancer .
In studies of AFREZZA in people with diabetes , lung cancer occurred in a few more people who were taking AFREZZA than in people who were taking other diabetes medications .
There were too few cases to know if lung cancer was related to AFREZZA .
If you have lung cancer , you and your healthcare provider should decide if you should use AFREZZA .
• Diabetic ketoacidosis .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have an illness .
Your AFREZZA dose or how often you check your blood sugar may need to be changed .
• Severe allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • A rash over your whole body , trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• Low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• Heart failure . Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or " TZDs " with AFREZZA may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with AFREZZA .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with AFREZZA .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • Shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain .
Treatment with TZDs and AFREZZA may need to be changed or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • Trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of AFREZZA include : • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , cough , sore throat These are not all the possible side effects of AFREZZA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 ( 1 - 800 - 332 - 1088 ) .
General information about the safe and effective use of AFREZZA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use AFREZZA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AFREZZA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about AFREZZA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about AFREZZA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in AFREZZA ?
Active ingredient : human insulin Inactive ingredients : fumaryl diketopiperazine , polysorbate 80 AFREZZA ® is a registered trademark of MannKind Corporation Patented .
See http : / / mannkindcorp . com / patent - notices MannKind Corporation , Danbury , CT 06810 For more information , go to www . AFREZZA . com or call MannKind Corp . 1 - 877 - 323 - 8505 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised 02 / 2020 Instructions for Use AFREZZA ® ( uh - FREZZ - uh ) ( insulin human ) inhalation powder Read this Instructions for Use before you start using AFREZZA and each time you get a new AFREZZA inhaler .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to use your AFREZZA inhaler the right way before you use it for the first time .
Important information about AFREZZA : • AFREZZA comes in 3 strengths ( See Figure A ) : • 4 units ( blue cartridge ) • 8 units ( green cartridge ) • 12 units ( yellow cartridge ) ( Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • If your prescribed AFREZZA dose is higher than 12 units , you will need to use more than 1 cartridge .
• If you need to use more than 1 cartridge for your dose , throw away the used cartridge before getting a new one .
You can tell when a cartridge has been used , because the cup has moved to the center .
• Do not try to open the AFREZZA cartridges .
The AFREZZA Inhaler opens the cartridge automatically during use .
• AFREZZA cartridges should only be used with the AFREZZA Inhaler .
Do not try to breathe in the AFREZZA insulin powder in any other way .
Do not put cartridges in your mouth and do not swallow cartridges .
• Use only 1 AFREZZA Inhaler at a time .
The same inhaler should be used for the 4 unit , 8 unit or 12 unit cartridges .
• Store the inhaler in a clean , dry place with the mouthpiece cover on until your next dose .
• Throw away your AFREZZA Inhaler after 15 days and get a new one .
If you are having problems with your AFREZZA inhaler or if it breaks and you need a new one , call 1 - 877 - 323 - 8505 .
Know your AFREZZA ® inhaler : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Know your AFREZZA ® cartridges : [ MULTIMEDIA ] How to take your dose of AFREZZA : Always be sure you have the right number of AFREZZA cartridges for your dose available before you start .
AFREZZA cartridges must only be used with the AFREZZA Inhaler .
Step 1 : Select the AFREZZA cartridges for your dose [ MULTIMEDIA ] If your prescribed AFREZZA ® dose is more than 12 units you will need to use more than 1 cartridge to get your right dose .
Use the dosage chart below to determine the least number of AFREZZA ® cartridges you can use for your dose .
Other cartridge combinations can be used .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ( Figure B ) Example : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Select Cartridges Important : Use the AFREZZA dose chart above ( See Figure B ) to help you choose the right number of AFREZZA cartridges needed for your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Open Packages Remove a blister card from the foil package .
Tear along perforation to remove one strip .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Push Cartridges to Remove Remove a cartridge from the strip by pressing on the clear side to push the cartridge out .
Remove the right number of cartridges for your dose .
Pushing on the cup will not damage the cartridge .
AFREZZA cartridges left over in an opened strip must be used within 3 days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Before Proceeding : Check that you have the right AFREZZA cartridge ( s ) for your dose .
Use only 1 inhaler for multiple cartridges .
Throw away your AFREZZA inhaler after 15 days and get a new one .
Step 2 : Loading a cartridge [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hold Inhaler Hold the inhaler level in one ( 1 ) hand with the white mouthpiece on the top and purple base on the bottom .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Open Inhaler Open the inhaler by lifting the white mouthpiece to a vertical position .
Before you put the AFREZZA cartridge in your inhaler , make sure it has been at room temperature for 10 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Place Cartridge Hold the cartridge with the cup facing down .
Line up the cartridge with the opening in the inhaler .
The pointed end of the cartridge should line up with the pointed end in the inhaler .
Place the cartridge into the inhaler .
Be sure that the cartridge lies flat in the inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Close Inhaler Lower the mouthpiece to close the inhaler ( this will open the drug cartridge ) .
You should feel a snap when the inhaler is closed .
Step 3 : Inhaling AFREZZA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove the Mouthpiece Cover Important : Keep the inhaler level during and after removal of the purple mouthpiece cover .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Exhale Hold the inhaler away from your mouth and fully blow out ( exhale ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Position Inhaler in Mouth Keeping your head level , place the mouthpiece in your mouth and tilt the inhaler down towards your chin , as shown .
Close your lips around the mouthpiece to form a seal .
Tilt the inhaler downward while keeping your head level .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inhale Deeply and Hold Breath With your mouth closed around the mouthpiece , inhale deeply through the inhaler .
Hold your breath for as long as comfortable and at the same time remove the inhaler from your mouth .
After holding your breath , exhale and continue to breathe normally .
Step 4 : Removing a used cartridge [ MULTIMEDIA ] Replace Mouthpiece Cover Place the purple mouthpiece cover back onto the inhaler .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Open Inhaler Open the inhaler by lifting up the white mouthpiece .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Remove Cartridge Remove the cartridge from the purple base .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Throw away the Cartridge Throw away the used cartridge in your regular household trash .
Multiple cartridge dosing If you need more than one ( 1 ) AFREZZA cartridge for your dose , See the AFREZZA dosage chart above ( Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Repeat steps 2 through 4 for each AFREZZA cartridge you need for your prescribed AFREZZA dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store AFREZZA ?
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caring for your AFREZZA inhaler : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Care Instructions [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Use one inhaler at a time .
The same inhaler should be used to take 4 unit , 8 unit or 12 unit cartridges .
Replace the inhaler every 15 days to maintain drug delivery .
Keep track of 15 days from when you start using the inhaler with a calendar , or use the chart on the back of the inhaler box .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Switching between AFREZZA and injected insulin : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Contact your healthcare provider before switching insulins .
AFREZZA ® is a mealtime insulin .
Do not switch from AFREZZA to a long acting insulin .
Do not switch from a long acting insulin to AFREZZA ® .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
AFREZZA ® is a registered trademark of MannKind Corporation Patented .
See http : / / www . mannkindcorp . com / patent - notices MannKind Corporation Danbury , CT 06810 Revised : 02 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 - 4 Unit Kit Carton NDC 47918 - 874 - 90 Carton Contains : 90 – 4 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 - 8 Unit Kit Carton NDC 47918 - 878 - 90 Carton Contains : 90 – 8 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 - 12 Unit Kit Carton NDC 47918 - 891 - 90 Carton Contains : 90 – 12 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 – 8 Unit / 90 – 12 Unit Kit Carton NDC 47918 - 898 - 18 Carton Contains : 90 – 8 unit Cartridges , 90 – 12 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 90 – 4 Unit / 90 – 8 Unit Kit Carton ( Titration Pack ) NDC 47918 - 880 - 18 Carton Contains : 90 – 4 unit Cartridges , 90 – 8 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 – 4 Unit / 60 – 8 Unit / 60 - 12 Unit Kit Carton ( Titration Pack ) NDC 47918 - 902 - 18 Carton Contains : 60 – 4 unit Cartridges , 60 – 8 unit Cartridges , 60 – 12 unit Cartridges + 2 Inhalers [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
