Active ingredients SALICYLIC ACID 0 . 25 % Purpose Dandruff Uses Dr . Pelo Scalp Shampoo helps relieve hair loss , dandruff , and itchiness to restore scalp health .
Warnings For external use only 4 .
Unless you rinse the product after using it , it causes hair loss or bleaching .
Please be careful Stop use 1 .
Be discontinued immediately the use of this product in the following cases , consult your doctor or pharmacist , at the time of consultation , as far as possible : If rash , erythema , itching , swelling , and the like are displayed 2 .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
Keep out of reach of children 3 .
Keep out of reach of babies and children Other information - Do not store near high heat or flame - Do not keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed the direct sunlight .
- Do not put in other containers for prevent abuse and keep quality Directions Immerse your hair with water enough , make a foam , massage the shampoo into the scalp with your fingertips and rinse the hair thoroughly with warm water .
Inactive ingredients Water , Ammonium Lauryl Sulfate , Ammonium Laureth Sulfate , Lauryl Glucoside , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Butylene Glycol , Cocamide MEA , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , L - Menthol , Niacinamide , Phenoxyethanol , Dexpanthenol , Sodium Chloride , Gardenia Florida Fruit Extract , Hydrolyzed Corn Protein , Hydrolyzed Wheat Protein , Hydrolyzed Soy Protein , Hydrolyzed Collagen , Hydrolyzed Silk , Hydrolyzed Keratin , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Extract , Houttuynia Cordata Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Artemisia Vulgaris Extract , Coix Lacryma - Jobi Ma - yuen Seed Extract , Acorus Calamus Root Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Hyaluronic Acid , Rosa Canina Flower Oil , Disodium EDTA , Biotin , Guar Hydroxypropyltrimonium Chloride Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
