Active ingredients Eucalyptol 0 . 092 % , Menthol 0 . 042 % Methyl salicylate 0 . 060 % , Thymol 0 . 064 % Purpose Antiginvitis , Antiplaque use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings For this product Do not use if you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
See your dentist immediately .
These may be signs of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Stop use and ask a dentist if gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions adults and children 12 years of age and older - vigorously swish 20 mL ( 2 . 3 FL OZ or 4 teaspoonfuls ) between teeth for 30 seconds then spit out : do not swallow children under 12 years of age - consult a dentist or doctor • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing other information cold weather may cloud this product .
Its antiseptic properties are not affected .
Store at room temperature ( 59 ⁰ - 77 ⁰ F ) inactive ingredients water , alcohol 26 . 9 % , benzoic acid , poloxamer 407 , sodium benzoate , caramel Disclaimer The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs ' Acceptance of Swan Original Antiseptic Mouthrinse is based on the finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce gingivitis and plaque above the gumline , when used as directed .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products , distributor of Listerine Antiseptic Mouthwash .
DSP - TN - 15000 DSP - MO - 34 SDS - TN - 15012 Adverse reaction section Distributed by : Vi - Jon , LLC One Swan Drive , Smyrna , TN 37167 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts principal display panel Sealed With Printed Neckband For Your Protection ANTISEPTIC Mouth Rinse original Kills Germs that Cause Bad Breath Plaque & the Gum Disease Gingivitis Compare to the active ingredients of Listerine 1 . 5 LITERS ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) ADA Accepted American Dental Association Compare to the active ingredients of Listerine 1 . 5 Liters ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] principal display panel mountain falls * Compare to Listerine improves oral hygiene kills germs that cause bad breath , plaque and gingivitis gum disease for daily mouth care freshens breath antiseptic mouth rinse antigingivitis / antiplaque original 1 . 5 L ( 50 . 7 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
