Color Element Hand Sanitizer with Moisturizers and Vitamin E Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl Alcohol 75 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For hand washing to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
Recommended for repeated use .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire and flame When using this product do not use in or near the eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears on the skin .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised by adult when applying this product .
• Do not use on children less than 2 months of age or on open skin wounds .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • May discolor some fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Water , Glycerin , Squalane , Panthenol , Inulin , Sodium Hyaluronate , Fructose , Tocopheryl Acetate , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aminomethyl Propanol .
Color Element Antiseptic Hand wipes saturated with 75 % Ethyl Alcohol Drug Facts Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 75 % Purpose Antiseptic Use For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • in the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions wet hands thoroughly with wipe and allow to dry without wiping Inactive ingredients Purified water Questions or Comments ?
212 - 551 - 2657 PPE GO KIT ™ Go Live Your Life 2 protective face masks 3 - ply pleated ( non - medical ) 4 hand sanitizer packets 75 % alcohol + moisturizers 2 antibacterial wipes 75 % alcohol 3 - Ply Disposable Protective Face mask ( Non - Medical ) • Inner Layer : Non - woven fabric • Middle Layer : Non - woven Meltflown filter • Outer Layer : Non - woven fabric How to wear : 1 ) Lay the mask flat 2 ) Pull the mask with both hands toward the face 3 ) Hold the mask with one hand and pull the ear loops each ear 4 ) Pull upper and bottom edge of the mask to cover the area from below your eyes to under chin , push the nosepiece inward with your fingers to conform to the shape of your nose Specifications : 17 . 5 cm x 9 . 5 cm Standard : T / CTCA 7 - 2019 Store in a cool and dry place Caution : 1 ) This product is a single - use protective mask to filter out pollen , bacteria and to block contaminants from oral and nasal exhalation .
It is not suitable for infants and children .
2 ) The mask is for single use only and can be worn 4 - 6 hours 3 ) In case of discomfort or adverse reactions , discontinue use .
4 ) Please store masks in a clean , cool and dry place after opening and use as soon as possible .
hand sanitizer packets 75 % alcohol + moisturizers Hand Sanitizer • 75 % Alcohol + Moisturizers • Kills 99 . 9 % of harmful germs • Smooth Gel Product • 2 ml ( . 07 fl oz ) • Registered FDA Brand How to use : 1 ) Tear off top to dispense .
2 ) Rub hands vigorously until dry .
antibacterial wipes 75 % alcohol Antibacterial Wipes • Antibacterial single use wipe • Kills 99 . 9 % of harmful germs • For hand washing to reduce bacteria .
How to use : 1 ) Tear off top of packet .
2 ) Wet hand thoroughly with wipe .
3 ) Use until dry to touch .
Global Genesis Partners LLC 75 Executive Drive , Suite 106 Aurora , IL 60504 866 - 466 - 5487 www . getgocare . com Made in China Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
