Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stop use and ask doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardurms .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when adviseed by a health care provider Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms under running water • scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush , paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a separate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in vigorous manner for about 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and normal skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol .
Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST Other safety information Warning : This product can expose you to coconut oil diethanolamine condensate ( cocamide diethanolamine ) , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information go to www . P65Warnings . ca . gov .
Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Mölnlycke Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Hibiclens ® .
Package label and principal display panel NDC 41250 - 162 - 08 Compare to the active ingredient in Hibiclens ® * Reduces bacteria on the skin Antiseptic Skin Cleanser Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Antiseptic / Antimicrobial Skin Cleanser FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY Dye Free 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SHRINK SEAL NECKBAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING .
4MEI08BTLLBLD [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 41250 - 162 - 16 Compare to Hibiclens active ingredient meijer antiseptic skin cleanser ( Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution ) Antiseptic / Antimicrobial SKin Cleanser REDUCES BACTERIA ON THE SKIN DYE FREE FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SHRINK SEAL NECKBAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING 16 FL OZ ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
