Drug Facts Active Ingredient Ethyl Alcohol ( Ethanol ) 70 % v / v Purpose Antimicrobial Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings External use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product , keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be a signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
if swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
• Rub hands together briskly until dry • Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other Information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients : Glycerin USP , Hydrogen Peroxide , Purified Water , Fragrance Oil Contains 70 % Alcohol Handstand FS Foaming 70 % Alcohol Hand Sanitizer is highly effective against controlling microorganisms .
Just rub into hands until dry .
Ideal for anywhere water is not available and a high performing hand sanitizer is needed .
Meets CDC recommendations for proper hand hygiene .
Ideal for healthcare settings !
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Hands should be cleansed of visible soils with soap and water first .
Apply small amount of product , rubbing hands thoroughly with product until dry .
No rinsing needed .
WARNING Warnings .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Manufactured By : Creative Chemicals , Inc .
88 Winter St . Holyoke , MA 01040 KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN For Emergencies , Call 24 hr ChemTel : 800 - 255 - 3924 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
