Drugs Facts Active Ingredient Octinoxate 5 . 0 % Oxybenzone 4 . 5 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reachof children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply cream evenly twice daily to face , neck , and other exposed areas before exposure to the sun .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Water , Glycerin , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Phenyl Trimethicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Polydodecanamideaminum Triadiphenylethenesulfonate , Tocotrienols , Dimethicone , PEG - 100 Stearate , Glyceryl Stearate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Vaccinium Myrtillus Fruit and Leaf Extract , Chlorella Vulgaris Extract , Ganoderma Lucidum ( Mushroom ) Stem Extract , Trametes Versicolor Extract , Saccharum Officinarum ( Sugar Cane ) Extract , Acer Saccharum ( Sugar Maple ) Extract , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis Fruit Extract , Citrus Limon Extract , Palmitoyl Pentapeptide - 4 , Superoxide Dismutase , Stevia Rebaudiana Extract , Foeniculum Vulgare Extract , Hydrolyzed Algin , Pryus Malus Extract , Salix Alba ( Willow ) Flower Extract , Colostrum , Melatonin , Sea Water , Phospholipids , Butylene Glycol , Triacontanyl PVP , Phenoxyethenol , Xanthan Gum , Ceteareth - 20 , Carbomer , Polysorbate - 20 , Polyvinylalcohol Crosspolymer , Methylparaben , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Ethylparaben , Tetrasodium EDTA , Triethanolamine Other Information • Sun Alert : Limiting sun exposure , wearing , protective clothing and using sunscreens may reduce the risks of skin aging , skin cancer , and other harmful effects of the sun .
• Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Distributed by Trienelle Skincare , Inc .
702 Cathedral St . Baltimore , MD 21201 1 - 800 - 539 - 5195 www . trienelle . com Trienelle Skincare Instant Illusion Daily Renewal Creme WITH TOCALLURÉ RESTORATION COMPLEX Broad Spectrum SPF 15 Formulated to : Instantly diminish the appearance of lines and wrinkles , and visibly rejuvenate the skin to reduce the signs of aging Net .
50 ml ( 1 . 7 fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
