FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR USE IN EYES Rx only DESCRIPTION Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % contains erythromycin ( ( 3 R * , 4 S * , 5 S * , 6 R * , 7 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 12 R * , 13 S * , 14 R * ) - 4 - [ ( 2 , 6 - Dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - O - methyl - α - L - ribo - hexopyranosyl ) - oxy ] - 14 - ethyl - 7 , 12 , 13 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 - hexamethyl - 6 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - β - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] oxacyclotetradecane - 2 , 10 - dione ) , for topical dermatologic use .
Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced from a strain of Saccaropolyspora erythraea ( formerly Streptomyces erythreus ) .
It is a base and readily forms salts with acids .
Chemically , Erythromycin is C37H67NO13 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Erythromycin has the molecular weight of 733 . 94 .
It is a white or slightly yellow , crystalline powder and it is slightly soluble in water ; soluble in alcohol , in chloroform and in ether .
Each mL of Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % contains 20 milligrams of erythromycin in a base of alcohol , USP ( 66 . 0 % ) and propylene glycol , USP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The exact mechanism by which erythromycin reduces lesions of acne vulgaris is not fully known : however , the effect appears to be due in part to the antibacterial activity of the drug .
Microbiology Erythromycin acts by inhibition of protein synthesis in susceptible organisms by reversibly binding to 50 S ribosomal subunits , thereby inhibiting translocation of aminoacyl transfer - RNA and inhibiting polypeptide synthesis .
Antagonism has been demonstrated in vitro between erythromycin , lincomycin , chloramphenicol , and clindamycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % is contraindicated in those individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including erythromycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of " antibiotic - associated colitis " .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General For topical use only ; not for ophthalmic use .
Concomitant topical acne therapy should be used with caution because a possible cumulative irritancy effect may occur , especially with the use of peeling , desquamating , or abrasive agents .
The use of antibiotic agents may be associated with the overgrowth of antibiotic - resistant organisms .
If this occurs , discontinue use and take appropriate measures .
Avoid contact with eyes and all mucous membranes .
Information for Patients Patients using Erythromycin should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , nose , mouth , and all mucous membranes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should not use any other topical acne medication unless otherwise directed by their physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of topical erythromycin .
However , long - term ( 2 - year ) oral studies in rats with erythromycin ethylsuccinate and erythromycin base did not provide evidence of tumorigenicity .
There was no apparent effect on male or female fertility in rats fed erythromycin ( base ) at levels up to 0 . 25 % of diet .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B There was no evidence of teratogenicity or any other adverse effect on reproduction in female rats fed erythromycin base ( up to 0 . 25 % diet ) prior to and during mating , during gestation and through weaning of two successive litters .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Erythromycin has been reported to cross the placental barrier in humans , but fetal plasma levels are generally low .
Nursing Women It is not known whether erythromycin is excreted in human milk after topical application .
However , erythromycin is excreted in human milk following oral and parenteral erythromycin administration .
Therefore , caution should be exercised when erythromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of this product in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported occasionally : peeling , dryness , itching , erythema , and oiliness .
Irritation of the eyes and tenderness of the skin have been reported with topical use of erythromycin .
Generalized urticarial reactions , possibly related to the use of erythromycin , which required systemic steroid therapy have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % should be applied to the affected area 2 times a day ( morning and evening ) after the skin is thoroughly washed with warm water and soap and patted dry .
Moisten the applicator or a pad with erythromycin , then rub over the affected area .
Acne lesions on the face , neck , shoulder , chest and back may be treated in this manner .
This medication should be applied with applicator top .
If fingertips are used , wash hands after application .
Drying and peeling may be controlled by reducing the frequency of applications .
HOW SUPPLIED Erythromycin Topical Solution , USP 2 % is supplied as follows : 60 mL bottle with applicator NDC 60432 - 671 - 60 Store in a dry place at temperatures between 15 ° – 25 ° C ( 59 ° – 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP TIGHTLY CLOSED Rx Only Product No . : 8671 Manufactured For : Wockhardt USA , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Manufactured By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 A50 - 8671 - 60 REV . 08 - 14 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bottle Carton MGP NDC 60432 - 671 - 60 ERYTHROMYCIN TOPICAL SOLUTION , USP 2 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY NOT FOR USE IN EYES SAFETY SEALED BOTTLE Rx Only NET : 2 fl oz ( 60 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
