[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluocinonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % is a corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : • Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
( 1 ) • Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae .
( 1 . 2 ) • Avoid use in perioral dermatitis or rosacea .
1 . 1 Indication Fluocinonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % is indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses in patients 12 years of age or older [ seeUseinSpecificPopulations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 2 Limitation of Use Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended and the total dosage should not exceed 60 g per week because the safety of fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks has not been established and because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Therapy should be discontinued when control of the disease is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of the diagnosis may be necessary .
Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week .
Fluocinonide cream should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For topical use only .
Fluocinonide cream is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) Psoriasis : apply a thin layer once or twice daily to the affected skin areas .
( 2 ) Atopic Dermatitis : apply a thin layer once daily to the affected skin areas .
( 2 ) Corticosteroid Responsive Dermatoses , other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis : apply a thin layer once or twice daily to the affected areas .
( 2 ) For topical use only .
Fluocinonide cream is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
For psoriasis , apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once or twice daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician .
Twice daily application for the treatment of psoriasis has been shown to be more effective in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment .
For atopic dermatitis , apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once daily to the affected skin areas as directed by a physician .
Once daily application for the treatment of atopic dermatitis has been shown to be as effective as twice daily treatment in achieving treatment success during 2 weeks of treatment [ seeClinicalStudies ( 14 ) ] .
For corticosteroid responsive dermatoses , other than psoriasis or atopic dermatitis , apply a thin layer of fluocinonide cream once or twice daily to the affected areas as directed by a physician .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Cream , 0 . 1 % ( 3 ) Each gram of fluocinonide cream , USP contains 1 mg of fluocinonide , USP .
Fluocinonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % is white to off white cream , free from lumps and foreign matter with no phase separation .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None ( 4 ) None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fluocinonide cream has been shown to suppress the HPA axis .
Systemic absorption of fluocinonide cream may produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia and unmask latent diabetes ( 5 . 1 ) • Systemic absorption may require evaluation for HPA axis suppression ( 5 . 1 ) • Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop ( 5 . 1 ) • Potent corticosteroids , use on large areas , prolonged use or occlusive use may increase systemic absorption ( 5 . 3 ) • Local adverse reactions with topical steroids may include atrophy , striae , irritation , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation and allergic contact dermatitis and may be more likely to occur with occlusive use or more potent corticosteroids ( 5 . 3 ) • Children may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity when treated with topical corticosteroids ( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effect on Endocrine System Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids , including fluocinonide cream , can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for clinical glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or upon withdrawal of the topical corticosteroid .
In addition , the use of fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks may suppress the immune system [ seeNonclinicalToxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
HPA axis suppression has been observed with fluocinonide cream , 0 . 1 % applied once or twice daily in 2 out of 18 adult patients with plaque - type psoriasis , 1 out of 31 adult patients with atopic dermatitis and 4 out of 123 pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis [ seeUseinSpecificPopulation ( 8 . 4 ) andClinicalPharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Because of the potential for systemic absorption , use of topical corticosteroids , including fluocinonide cream , may require that patients be periodically evaluated for HPA axis suppression .
Factors that predispose a patient using a topical corticosteroid to HPA axis suppression include the use of more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , use over prolonged periods , use under occlusion , use on an altered skin barrier , and use in patients with liver failure .
An ACTH stimulation test may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , an attempt should be made to gradually withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Manifestations of adrenal insufficiency may require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and unmasking of latent diabetes mellitus can also result from systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase the total systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Studies conducted in pediatric patients demonstrated reversible HPA axis suppression after use of fluocinonide cream .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible than adults to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses of fluocinonide cream due to their larger skin surface - to - body - mass ratios [ SeeUseinSpecificPopulations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Local Adverse Reactions with Topical Corticosteroids Local adverse reactions may be more likely to occur with occlusive use , prolonged use or use of higher potency corticosteroids .
Reactions may include atrophy , striae , telangiectasis , burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , and miliaria .
Some local adverse reactions may be irreversible .
5 . 3 Concomitant Skin Infections If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of fluocinonide cream should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
5 . 4 Allergic Contact Dermatitis If irritation develops , fluocinonide cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most commonly reported adverse reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) were headache , application site burning , nasopharyngitis , and nasal congestion .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 304 - 5011 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In clinical trials , a total of 443 adult subjects with atopic dermatitis or plaque - type psoriasis were treated once daily or twice daily with fluocinonide cream for 2 weeks .
The most commonly observed adverse reactions in these clinical trials were as follows : Table 1 Most Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) in Adult Clinical TrialsAdverse Reaction Fluocinonide Cream , once daily ( n = 216 ) Fluocinonide Cream , twice daily ( n = 227 ) Vehicle Cream , once or twice daily ( n = 211 ) Headache 8 ( 3 . 7 % ) 9 ( 4 . 0 % ) 6 ( 2 . 8 % ) Application Site Burning 5 ( 2 . 3 % ) 4 ( 1 . 8 % ) 14 ( 6 . 6 % ) Nasopharyngitis 2 ( 0 . 9 % ) 3 ( 1 . 3 % ) 3 ( 1 . 4 % ) Nasal Congestion 3 ( 1 . 4 % ) 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) 0 Safety in patients 12 to 17 years of age was similar to that observed in adults .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of fluocinonide cream : AdministrationSiteConditions : discoloration , erythema , irritation , pruritus , swelling , pain and condition aggravated .
ImmuneSystemDisorders : hypersensitivity .
NervousSystemDisorders : headache and dizziness .
SkinandSubcutaneousTissueDisorders : acne , dry skin , rash , skin exfoliation and skin tightness .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects PregnancyCategoryC There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , fluocinonide cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Nevertheless , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of fluocinonide cream in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age have not been established ; therefore use in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age is not recommended .
HPA axis suppression was studied in 4 sequential cohorts of pediatric patients with atopic dermatitis covering at least 20 % of the body surface area , treated once daily or twice daily with fluocinonide cream .
The first cohort of 31 patients ( mean 36 . 3 % BSA ) 12 to < 18 years old ; the second cohort included 31 patients ( mean 39 . 0 % BSA ) 6 to < 12 years old ; the third cohort included 30 patients ( mean 34 . 6 % BSA ) 2 to < 6 years old ; the fourth cohort included 31 patients ( mean 40 . 0 % BSA ) 3 months to < 2 years old .
Fluocinonide cream caused HPA - axis suppression in 1 patient in the twice daily group in Cohort 1 , 2 patients in the twice daily group in Cohort 2 , and 1 patient in the twice daily group in Cohort 3 .
Follow - up testing 14 days after treatment discontinuation , available for all 4 suppressed patients , demonstrated a normally responsive HPA axis .
Signs of skin atrophy were present at baseline and severity was not determined making it difficult to assess local skin safety .
Therefore , the safety of fluocinonide cream in patients younger than 12 years of age has not been demonstrated [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
HPA axis suppression has not been evaluated in patients with psoriasis who are less than 18 years of age .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA - axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects including striae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
HPA - axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to cosyntropin ( ACTH1 - 24 ) stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of fluocinonide cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE Topically applied fluocinonide cream can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Fluocinonide cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains fluocinonide , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Fluocinonide has the chemical name 6 alpha , 9 alpha - difluoro - 11 beta , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 alpha , 17 alpha - isopropylidenedioxypregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 21 - acetate .
Its chemical formula is C26H32F2O7 and it has a molecular weight of 494 . 58 .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluocinonide , USP is white or almost white microcrystalline powder .
It is practically insoluble in water , very slightly soluble in ether , slightly soluble in ethanol , methanol and dioxane , sparingly soluble in acetone and chloroform .
Each gram of fluocinonide cream , USP contains 1 mg micronized fluocinonide in a cream base of anhydrous citric acid , carbomer homopolymer type C , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , diisopropanolamine , glyceryl monostearate , glyceryl stearate / PEG - 100 stearate , propylene glycol and purified water .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action of fluocinonide cream in corticosteroid responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Vasoconstrictor studies performed with fluocinonide cream in healthy subjects indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids ; however , similar blanching scores do not necessarily imply therapeutic equivalence .
Application of fluocinonide cream twice daily for 14 days in 18 adult subjects with plaque - type psoriasis ( 10 to 50 % BSA , mean 19 . 6 % BSA ) and 31 adult subjects ( 17 treated once daily ; 14 treated twice daily ) with atopic dermatitis ( 2 o 10 % BSA , mean 5 % BSA ) showed demonstrable HPA - axis suppression in 2 subjects with psoriasis ( with 12 % and 25 % BSA ) and 1 subject with atopic dermatitis ( treated once daily , 4 % BSA ) where the criterion for HPA - axis suppression is a serum cortisol level of less than or equal to 18 micrograms per deciliter 30 minutes after stimulation with cosyntropin ( ACTH1 - 24 ) [ seeWarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
HPA - axis suppression following application of fluocinonide cream , 0 . 1 % ( once or twice daily ) was also evaluated in 123 pediatric patients from 3 months to < 18 years of age with atopic dermatitis ( mean BSA range 34 . 6 % to 40 . 0 % ) .
HPA - axis suppression was observed in 4 patients in the twice daily groups .
Follow - up testing 14 days after treatment discontinuation demonstrated a normally responsive HPA axis in all 4 suppressed patients [ see WarningsandPrecautions ( 5 . 1 ) andUseinSpecificpopulations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of fluocinonide cream because of severe immunosuppression induced in a 13 - week dermal rat study .
The effects of fluocinonide on fertility have not been evaluated .
Fluocinonide revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two invitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames test and chromosomal aberration assay using human lymphocytes ) .
However , fluocinonide was positive for clastogenic potential when tested in the invivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Topical ( dermal ) application of 0 . 0003 % - 0 . 03 % fluocinonide cream to rats once daily for 13 weeks resulted in a toxicity profile generally associated with long term exposure to corticosteroids including decreased skin thickness , adrenal atrophy , and severe immunosuppression .
A NOAEL could not be determined in this study .
In addition , topical ( dermal ) application of 0 . 1 % fluocinonide cream plus UVR exposure to hairless mice for 13 weeks and 150 - 900 mg / kg / day of 0 . 1 % fluocinonide cream to minipigs ( a model which more closely approximates human skin ) for 13 weeks produced glucocorticoid - related suppression of the HPA axis , with some signs of immunosuppression noted in the dermal minipig study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Topical doses of 0 % ( fluocinonide cream vehicle ) , 0 . 0001 % , 0 . 005 % and 0 . 001 % fluocinonide cream were evaluated in a 52 week dermal photo - carcinogenicity study ( 40 weeks of treatment followed by 12 weeks of observation ) conducted in hairless albino mice with concurrent exposure to low level ultraviolet radiation .
Topical treatment with increasing concentrations of fluocinonide cream did not have an adverse effect in this study .
The results of this study suggest that topical treatment with fluocinonide cream would not enhance photo - carcinogenesis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Two adequate and well - controlled efficacy and safety studies of fluocinonide cream have been completed , one in adult subjects with plaque - type psoriasis ( Table 2 ) , and one in adult subjects with atopic dermatitis ( Table 3 ) .
In each of these studies , subjects with between 2 % and 10 % body surface area involvement at baseline treated all affected areas either once daily or twice daily with fluocinonide cream for 14 consecutive days .
The primary measure of efficacy was the proportion of subjects whose condition was cleared or almost cleared at the end of treatment .
The results of these studies are presented in the tables below as percent and number of patients achieving treatment success at Week 2 .
Table 2 Plaque - type Psoriasis in Adults * Cleared or almost cleared Fluocinonide Cream , once daily ( n = 107 ) Vehicle , once daily ( n = 54 ) Fluocinonide Cream , twice daily ( n = 107 ) Vehicle , twice daily ( n = 55 ) Subjects cleared 0 ( 0 ) 0 ( 0 ) 6 ( 6 % ) 0 ( 0 ) Subjects achieving treatment success * 19 ( 18 % ) 4 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 31 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) Table 3 Atopic Dermatitis in Adults * Cleared or almost cleared Fluocinonide Cream , once daily ( n = 109 ) Vehicle , once daily ( n = 50 ) Fluocinonide Cream , twice daily ( n = 102 ) Vehicle , twice daily ( n = 52 ) Subjects cleared 11 ( 10 % ) 0 ( 0 ) 17 ( 17 % ) 0 ( 0 ) Subjects achieving treatment success * 64 ( 59 % ) 6 ( 12 % ) 58 ( 57 % ) 10 ( 19 % ) No efficacy studies have been conducted to compare fluocinonide cream , 0 . 1 % with any other topical corticosteroid product , including fluocinonide cream 0 . 05 % .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Fluocinonide Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is white to off white cream , free from lumps and foreign matter with no phase separation .
Filled in aluminum tube fitted with white color cap and supplied as follows : NDC : 63629 - 2508 - 1 : 120 grams Cream 0 . 1 % in a TUBE Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Keep the tube tightly closed .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ SeeFDA - approvedpatientlabeling ( PatientInformation ) ] Patients using fluocinonide cream should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or unintended effects : • Fluocinonide cream is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
It should not be used on the face , groin , and underarms .
• Fluocinonide cream should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with fluocinonide cream without first talking to the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen in 2 weeks , the patient should be instructed to contact a physician .
The safety of the use of fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks has not been established .
• Patients should be informed to not use more than 60 g per week of fluocinonide cream .
Do not use more than half of the 120 g tube per week .
• Patients should inform their physicians that they are using fluocinonide cream if surgery is contemplated .
• Patients should wash their hands after applying medication .
Manufacturedby : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Changodar , Ahmedabad , India .
Distributedby : Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cranford , NJ 07016 Rev . : 01 / 20 PATIENTINFORMATION Fluocinonide ( FLOO - oh - SIN - oh - nide ) Cream USP , 0 . 1 % Important : For skin use only .
Do not get fluocinonide cream in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Not for use on the face , groin , or underarms .
Read the Patient Information that comes with fluocinonide cream before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your condition or treatment .
Whatisfluocinonidecream ?
Fluocinonide cream is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used on the skin ( topical ) to treat adults and children 12 years and older with certain skin conditions that cause red , flaky , and itchy skin .
• You should not use fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks in a row .
• You should not use more than 60 grams of fluocinonide cream or more than half of the 120 gram tube in 1 week .
• Fluocinonide cream should not be used : • if you have skin swelling or redness on the nose of face ( rosacea ) • for a scaly or bumpy rash around your mouth ( perioral dermatitis ) • on your face , underarms , or groin area It is not known if fluocinonide cream is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
WhatshouldItellmydoctorbeforeusingfluocinonidecream ?
Beforeusingfluocinonidecream , tellyourdoctorifyou : • have had irritation or other skin reaction to a steroid medicine in the past • adrenal gland problems • plan to have surgery • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if fluocinonide cream will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if fluocinonide cream passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you use fluocinonide cream .
Tellyourdoctoraboutallthemedicineyoutake including prescriptions and non - prescriptions medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take a corticosteroid medicine by mouth or use other products on your skin that contain corticosteroids .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
HowshouldIusefluocinonidecream ?
• See " Whatisfluocinonidecream ? "
• Use fluocinonide cream exactly as your doctor tells you .
• This medicine is for use on the skin only .
Do not use fluocinonide cream in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
• Wash your hands after you use fluocinonide cream .
• Do not use fluocinonide cream for longer than 2 weeks in a row .
• Talk to your doctor if your skin does not get better after 2 weeks of treatment with fluocinonide cream .
• Do not bandage or cover the skin treated with fluocinonide cream unless your doctor tells you to .
Whatarethepossiblesideeffectswithfluocinonidecream ?
Fluocinonide cream may cause side effects , including : • Symptomsofadisorderwheretheadrenalglanddoesnotmakeenoughofcertainhormones ( adrenalinsufficiency ) duringtreatmentorafterstoppingtreatment .
Your doctor may do blood tests to check you for adrenal insufficiency while you are using fluocinonide cream .
Tell your doctor if you have any of these symptoms of adrenal insufficiency : • tiredness that worsens and does not go away • nausea or vomiting • dizziness or fainting • muscle weakness • irritability and depression • loss of appetite • weight loss • Cushing ' ssyndrome , whenthebodyisexposedtotoomuchofthehormonecortisol .
Your doctor may do tests to check for this .
Symptoms can include : • weight gain , especially around your upper back and midsection • slow healing of cuts , insect bites and infections • tiredness and muscle weakness • depression , anxiety and irritability • roundness of your face ( moon face ) • new or worsening high blood pressure Themostcommonsideeffectoffluocinonidecreamis burning of your skin treated with fluocinonide cream .
Talk to your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the side effects with fluocinonide cream .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 304 - 5011 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
HowshouldIstorefluocinonidecream ?
• Store fluocinonide cream at room temperature , between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Keep the tube tightly closed .
Keepfluocinonidecreamandallmedicinesoutofthereachofchildren .
Generalinformationaboutfluocinonidecream Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use fluocinonide cream for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give fluocinonide cream to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about fluocinonide cream .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about fluocinonide cream that is written for healthcare professionals .
Whataretheingredientsinfluocinonidecream ?
Activeingredient : fluocinonide , USP Inactiveingredients : anhydrous citric acid , carbomer homopolymer type C , diethylene glycol monoethyl ether , diisopropanolamine , glyceryl monostearate , glyceryl stearate / PEG - 100 stearate , propylene glycol and purified water .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufacturedby : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Changodar , Ahmedabad , India .
Distributedby : Viona Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cranford , NJ 07016 Rev . : 01 / 20 Fluocinonide 0 . 1 % Cream , USP # 120 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
