WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
( 5 . 3 ) Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 ) WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
( 5 . 3 ) Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma .
Important Limitations of Use : The relative bioavailability between Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection and oral levothyroxine products has not been established .
Caution should be used when switching patients from oral levothyroxine products to Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection as accurate dosing conversion has not been studied .
Levothyroxine Sodium is an L - thyroxine product .
Levothyroxine ( T4 ) Sodium for Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma .
( 1 ) Important Limitations of Use : The relative bioavailability of this drug has not been established .
Use caution when converting patients from oral to intravenous levothyroxine .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • An initial intravenous loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection between 300 to 500 mcg followed by once daily intravenous maintenance doses between 50 and 100 mcg should be administered , as clinically indicated , until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
( 2 . 1 ) • Reconstitute the lyophilized Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection by aseptically adding 5 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Shake vial to ensure complete mixing .
Reconstituted drug product is preservative free .
Use immediately after reconstitution .
Discard any unused portion .
( 2 . 3 ) • Do not add to other IV fluids .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Dosage An initial intravenous loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection between 300 to 500 mcg , followed by once daily intravenous maintenance doses between 50 and 100 mcg , should be administered , as clinically indicated , until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
The age , general physical condition , cardiac risk factors , and clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms should be considered when determining the starting and maintenance dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection .
Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection produces a gradual increase in the circulating concentrations of the hormone with an approximate half - life of 9 to 10 days in hypothyroid patients .
Daily administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection should be maintained until the patient is capable of tolerating an oral dose and is clinically stable .
For chronic treatment of hypothyroidism , an oral dosage form of levothyroxine should be used to maintain a euthyroid state .
Relative bioavailability between Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection and oral levothyroxine products has not been established .
Based on medical practice , the relative bioavailability between oral and intravenous administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is estimated to be from 48 to 74 % .
Due to differences in absorption characteristics of patients and the oral levothyroxine product formulations , TSH and thyroid hormone levels should be measured a few weeks after initiating oral levothyroxine and dose adjusted accordingly .
2 . 2 Dosing in the Elderly and in Patients with Cardiovascular Disease Intravenous levothyroxine may be associated with cardiac toxicity - including arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death in the elderly and in those with underlying cardiovascular disease .
Therefore , cautious use , including doses in the lower end of the recommended range , may be warranted in these populations .
2 . 3 Reconstitution Directions Reconstitute the lyophilized Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection by aseptically adding 5 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP only .
Shake vial to ensure complete mixing .
The resultant solution will have a final concentration of approximately 20 mcg per mL , 40 mcg per mL , and 100 mcg per mL for the 100 mcg , 200 mcg , and 500 mcg vials , respectively .
Reconstituted drug product is preservative free and is stable for 4 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
DO NOT ADD LEVOTHYROXINE SODIUM FOR INJECTION TO OTHER IV FLUIDS .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is supplied as a lyophilized powder at three strengths in single - dose amber - colored vials : 100 mcg , 200 mcg , and 500 mcg .
Lyophilized powder for injection in single - dose vials : 100 mcg , 200 mcg , and 500 mcg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Excessive bolus doses of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection ( > 500 mcg ) are associated with cardiac complications , particularly in the elderly and in patients with an underlying cardiac condition .
Initiate therapy with doses at the lower end of the recommended range .
( 5 . 1 ) • Close observation of the patient following the administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is advised .
( 5 . 1 ) • Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection therapy for patients with previously undiagnosed endocrine disorders , including adrenal insufficiency , hypopituitarism , and diabetes insipidus , may worsen symptoms of these endocrinopathies .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Cardiac Complications in Elderly and in Patients with Cardiovascular Disease Excessive bolus dosing of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection ( greater than 500 mcg ) are associated with cardiac complications , particularly in the elderly and in patients with an underlying cardiac condition .
Adverse events that can potentially be related to the administration of large doses of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection include arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death .
Cautious use , including doses in the lower end of the recommended range , may be warranted in these populations .
Close observation of the patient following the administration of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is advised .
5 . 2 Need for Concomitant Glucocorticoids and Monitoring for Other Diseases in Patients with Endocrine Disorders Occasionally , chronic autoimmune thyroiditis , which can lead to myxedema coma , may occur in association with other autoimmune disorders such as adrenal insufficiency , pernicious anemia , and insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
Patients should be treated with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of treatment with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection , until adrenal function has been adequately assessed .
Failure to do so may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis when thyroid hormone therapy is initiated , due to increased metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids by thyroid hormone .
With initiation of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection , patients with myxedema coma should also be monitored for previously undiagnosed diabetes insipidus .
5 . 3 Not Indicated for Treatment of Obesity Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection , either alone or with other therapeutic agents , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
In euthyroid patients , doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction .
Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity , particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Excessive doses of levothyroxine can predispose to signs and symptoms compatible with hyperthyroidism .
The signs and symptoms of thyrotoxicosis include , but are not limited to : exophthalmic goiter , weight loss , increased appetite , palpitations , nervousness , diarrhea , abdominal cramps , sweating , tachycardia , increased pulse and blood pressure , cardiac arrhythmias , angina pectoris , tremors , insomnia , heat intolerance , fever , and menstrual irregularities .
Excessive doses of L - thyroxine can predispose to signs and symptoms compatible with hyperthyroidism .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Athenex Pharmaceutical Division , LLC .
at 1 - 855 - 273 - 0154 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection .
In addition , thyroid hormones and thyroid status have varied effects on the pharmacokinetics and actions of other drugs [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection .
( 7 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended , especially when thyroid therapy is started , changed , or discontinued .
7 . 2 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection dose is increased .
Prothrombin time should be closely monitored to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 3 Digitalis Glycosides The therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides may be reduced by levothyroxine .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 4 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and CNS stimulation ; onset of action of tricyclics may be accelerated .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements .
7 . 5 Ketamine Concurrent use may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia ; cautious administration to patients receiving thyroid hormone therapy is recommended .
7 . 6 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 7 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Changes in thyroxine binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration must be considered when interpreting levothyroxine and triiodothyronine values , which necessitates measurement and evaluation of unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determination of the free levothyroxine index .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations .
Decreases in TBG concentrations are observed in nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , and after androgen or corticosteroid therapy .
Familial hyper or hypo thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Elderly and those with underlying cardiovascular disease should receive doses at the lower end of the recommended range .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category A – There are no reported cases of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection used to treat myxedema coma in patients who were pregnant or lactating .
Studies in pregnant women treated with oral levothyroxine to maintain a euthyroid state have not shown an increased risk of fetal abnormalities .
Therefore , pregnant patients who develop myxedema should be treated with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection as the risk of non - treatment is associated with a high probability of significant morbidity or mortality to the maternal patient and the fetus .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Patients in labor who develop myxedema have not been reported in the literature .
However , patients should be treated with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection as the risk of non - treatment is associated with a high probability of significant morbidity or mortality to the maternal patient and the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Adequate replacement doses of thyroid hormones are required to maintain normal lactation .
There are no reported cases of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection used to treat myxedema coma in patients who are lactating .
However , such patients should be treated with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection as the risk of nontreatment is associated with a high probability of significant morbidity or mortality to the nursing patient .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Myxedema coma is a disease of the elderly .
An approved , oral dosage form of levothyroxine should be used in the pediatric patient population for maintaining a euthyroid state in non - complicated hypothyroidism .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use and Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease See Section 2 , Dosage and Administration , for full prescribing information in the geriatric patient population .
Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease in the elderly , cautious use of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection in the elderly and in patients with known cardiac risk factors is advised .
Atrial fibrillation is a common side effect associated with levothyroxine treatment in the elderly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In general , the signs and symptoms of overdosage with levothyroxine are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Excessive doses of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection ( greater than 500 mcg ) are associated with cardiac complications in patients with underlying cardiac disease .
Treatment of Overdosage Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection should be reduced in dose or temporarily discontinued if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is the certified Regional Poison Control Center .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in the patient .
In the event of an overdose , appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated as dictated by the patient ' s medical status .
11 DESCRIPTION Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection contains synthetic crystalline levothyroxine ( L - thyroxine ) sodium salt .
Levothyroxine sodium has an empirical formula of C15H10I4NNaO4 , a molecular weight of 798 . 85 g / mol ( anhydrous ) , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is a sterile , preservative - free lyophilized powder consisting of the active ingredient , levothyroxine sodium , and the excipients dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate ; mannitol ; and sodium hydroxide , in single - dose amber glass vials .
Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is available at three dosage strengths : 100 mcg per vial , 200 mcg per vial , and 500 mcg per vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and levothyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion is regulated by the hypothalamic pituitary - thyroid axis .
Thyrotropin releasing hormone ( TRH ) released from the hypothalamus stimulates secretion of thyrotropin stimulating hormone ( TSH ) from the anterior pituitary .
TSH , in turn , is the physiologic stimulus for the synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones , T4 and T3 , by the thyroid gland .
Circulating serum T3 and T4 levels exert a feedback effect on both TRH and TSH secretion .
When serum T3 and T4 levels increase , TRH and TSH secretion decrease .
When thyroid hormone levels decrease , TRH and TSH secretion increases .
TSH is used for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism and evaluation of levothyroxine therapy adequacy with other laboratory and clinical data [ see Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
There are drugs known to affect thyroid hormones and TSH by various mechanisms and those examples are diazepam , ethionamide , lovastatin , metoclopramide , 6 - mercaptopurine , nitroprusside , perphenazine , and thiazide diuretics .
Some drugs may cause a transient decrease in TSH secretion without hypothyroidism and those drugs ( dose ) are dopamine ( greater than 1 mcg per kg per min ) , glucocorticoids ( hydrocortisone greater than 100 mg per day or equivalent ) and octreotide ( greater than 100 mcg per day ) .
Thyroid hormones regulate multiple metabolic processes and play an essential role in normal growth and development , and normal maturation of the central nervous system and bone .
The metabolic actions of thyroid hormones include augmentation of cellular respiration and thermogenesis , as well as metabolism of proteins , carbohydrates and lipids .
The protein anabolic effects of thyroid hormones are essential to normal growth and development .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption – Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is administered via the intravenous route .
Following administration , the synthetic levothyroxine cannot be distinguished from the natural hormone that is secreted endogenously .
Distribution – Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half - life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 ) ] .
Metabolism – T4 is slowly eliminated .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately eighty percent of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( r T3 ) .
T3 and r T3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Elimination – Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged , where it is hydrolyzed and eliminated in feces as the free hormones .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid Patients Hormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( Days ) Protein Binding ( % ) 2 T4 : Levothyroxine T3 : Liothyronine 1 3 to 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism .
2 Includes TBG , TBPA , and TBA .
T4 10 to 20 1 6 to 81 99 . 96 T3 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 Drug Interactions A listing of drug interaction with T4 is provided in the following tables , although it may not be comprehensive due to the introduction of new drugs that interact with the thyroidal axis or the discovery of previously unknown interactions .
The prescriber should be aware of this fact and should consult appropriate reference sources ( e . g . , package inserts of newly approved drugs , medical literature ) for additional information if a drug - drug interaction with levothyroxine is suspected .
Table 2 : Drugs That May Alter T4 and T3 Serum Transport Without Affecting free T4 Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drugs That May Increase Serum TBG Concentration Drugs That May Decrease Serum TBG Concentration Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid Drugs That May Cause Protein - Binding Site Displacement Potential impact : Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations and , therefore , patients are clinically euthyroid .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total - T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates - Phenylbutazone Table 3 : Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Carbamazepine Hydantoins Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total - and free - T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Other drugs : Phenobarbital Rifampin Table 4 : Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change slightly , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
It should be noted that actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( see above ) .
Other drug : Amiodarone 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and Pharmacology No animal toxicology studies have been conducted with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES No clinical studies have been conducted with Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection in patients with myxedema coma .
However , data from published literature support the intravenous use of levothyroxine sodium for the treatment of myxedema coma .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection is supplied as follows : NDC Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection Reconstituted Concentration Package Factor 70860 - 451 - 10 100 mcg Single - Dose Vial 20 mcg per mL 1 vial per carton 70860 - 452 - 10 200 mcg Single - Dose Vial 40 mcg per mL 1 vial per carton 70860 - 453 - 10 500 mcg Single - Dose Vial 100 mcg per mL 1 vial per carton 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store dry product at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from light .
Discard any unused portion .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free , Lyophilized .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Athenex Mfd .
for Athenex Schaumburg , IL 60173 ( USA ) Made in India © 2018 Athenex .
September 2018 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 70860 - 451 - 10 Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection 100 mcg per vial Rx only For Intravenous Use Single - Dose Vial Discard any unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 70860 - 452 - 10 Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection 200 mcg per vial Rx only For Intravenous Use Single - Dose Vial Discard any unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 70860 - 453 - 10 Levothyroxine Sodium for Injection 500 mcg per vial Rx only For Intravenous Use Single - Dose Vial Discard any unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
