[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only For Topical Use Only DESCRIPTION Econazole Nitrate Cream contains the antifungal agent , econazole nitrate 1 % , in a water - miscible base consisting of benzoic acid , butylated hydroxyanisole , mineral oil , peglicol 5 oleate , pegoxol - 7 stearate , and purified water .
The white to off - white soft cream is for topical use only .
Chemically , econazole nitrate is 1 - [ 2 - { ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) methoxy } - 2 - ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] - 1 H - imidazole mononitrate .
Its structure is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After topical application to the skin of normal subjects , systemic absorption of econazole nitrate is extremely low .
Although most of the applied drug remains on the skin surface , drug concentrations were found in the stratum corneum which , by far , exceeded the minimum inhibitory concentration for dermatophytes .
Inhibitory concentrations were achieved in the epidermis and as deep as the middle region of the dermis .
Less than 1 % of the applied dose was recovered in the urine and feces .
Microbiology : Econazole nitrate has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Epidermophyton floccosum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Candida albicans Microsporum audouini Trichophyton rubrum Malassezia furfur Microsporum canis Trichophyton tonsurans Microsporum gypseum Econazole nitrate exhibits broad - spectrum antifungal activity against the following organisms in vitro , but the clinical significance of these data is unknown .
Dermatophytes Yeasts Trichophyton verrucosum Candida guillermondii Candida parapsilosis Candida tropicalis INDICATIONS AND USAGE Econazole Nitrate Cream is indicated for topical application in the treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , Microsporum gypseum , and Epidermophyton floccosum , in the treatment of cutaneous candidiasis , and in the treatment of tinea versicolor .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Econazole Nitrate Cream is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
WARNINGS Econazole Nitrate Cream is not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur , use of the medication should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Avoid introduction of Econazole Nitrate Cream into the eyes .
Drug Interactions Warfarin Concomitant administration of econazole and warfarin has resulted in enhancement of anticoagulation effect .
Most cases reported product application with use under occlusion , genital application , or application to large body surface area which may increase the systemic absorption of econazole nitrate .
Monitoring of International Normalized Ratio ( INR ) and / or prothrombin time may be indicated especially for patients who apply econazole to large body surface areas , in the genital area , or under occlusion .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Oral administration of econazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
Intravaginal administration in humans has not shown prolonged gestation or other adverse reproductive effects attributable to econazole nitrate therapy .
Pregnancy Econazole nitrate has not been shown to be teratogenic when administered orally to mice , rabbits or rats .
Fetotoxic or embryotoxic effects were observed in Segment I oral studies with rats receiving 10 to 40 times the human dermal dose .
Similar effects were observed in Segment II or Segment III studies with mice , rabbits and / or rats receiving oral doses 80 or 40 times the human dermal dose .
Econazole nitrate should be used in the first trimester of pregnancy only when the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
The drug should be used during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether econazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Following oral administration of econazole nitrate to lactating rats , econazole and / or metabolites were excreted in milk and were found in nursing pups .
Also , in lactating rats receiving large oral doses ( 40 or 80 times the human dermal dose ) , there was a reduction in post partum viability of pups and survival to weaning ; however , at these high doses , maternal toxicity was present and may have been a contributing factor .
Caution should be exercised when econazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Econazole Nitrate Cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials , approximately 3 % of patients treated with econazole nitrate cream , 1 % reported side effects thought possibly to be due to the drug , consisting mainly of burning , itching , stinging , and erythema .
One case of pruritic rash has also been reported .
OVERDOSE Overdosage of econazole nitrate in humans has not been reported to date .
In mice , rats , guinea pigs and dogs , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 462 , 668 , 272 , and > 160 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sufficient Econazole Nitrate Cream , 1 % should be applied to cover affected areas once daily in patients with tinea pedis , tinea cruris , tinea corporis , and tinea versicolor , and twice daily ( morning and evening ) in patients with cutaneous candidiasis .
Early relief of symptoms is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , candidal infections and tinea cruris and corporis should be treated for two weeks and tinea pedis for one month in order to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after the treatment period , the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED Econazole Nitrate Cream , 1 % is available as follows : 30 g tube ( NDC 63629 - 8646 - 1 ) Store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Padagis at 1 - 866 - 634 - 9120 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
Econazole Nitrate 1 % Cream , # 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
