Active ingredient Benzoyl peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne treatment Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use if you • • have very sensitive skin • • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide When using this product • • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth • • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • Sensitivity Test for a New User .
Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product • • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer , dimethicone , disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate , edetate disodium , glycerin , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , purified water , silicon dioxide , sodium hydroxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Package / Label Principal Display Panel Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Aqueous Base , Acne Treatment Gel NET WT 2 . 1 OZ ( 60 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
