active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( See Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away .
Directions • apply liberaly 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especialy from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , silica , dimethicone , potassium cetyl phosphate , benzyl alcohol , beeswax , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , caprylyl methicone , cetyl dimethicone , dimethicone / PEG - 10 / 15 crosspolymer , sodium polyacrylate , behenyl alcohol , xanthan gum , glycerin , pentylene glycol , acrylates / C12 - 22 alkyl methacrylate copolymer , ethylhexyl stearate , chlorphenesin , disodium EDTA , fragrance , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , BHT , trideceth - 6 May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces .
** This product is not manufacturedor distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . , distributor of Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 * Oxybenzone and octinoxate free Proudly distributed by : Harris Teeter , LLC , Matthews , NC 28105 1 - 800 - 432 - 6111 or harristeeter . com 914 . 000 / 914 AA principal display panel Harris Teeter Compare to Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunscreen ** SHEER TOUCH SUNSCREEN LOTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) Lightweight formula Dermatologist tested Reef friendly * 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
