Active Ingredient ( s ) Hypochlorous acid ENACLO factor ) 0 . 01 % Purpose disinfection Use Applicable to disinfection of air , skin surface , object surface , mucosa , fruit and vegetables , and fabric surface .
Warnings For extermal use only , do not use of you are alergic to Hypochlorous acid or Borneolum When using this produc , do not take toraly , in case of acidental contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughy with water Stop use and ask a doctor if it at on or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Use diecty , do not combine the product wth other detergents , disinfectants etc .
Do not use For extermal use only , do not use of you are alergic to Hypochlorous acid or Borneolum When using this produc , do not take toraly , in case of acidental contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughy with water Use diecty , do not combine the product wth other detergents , disinfectants etc .
When using this produc , do not take toraly , in case of acidental contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughy with water Stop use and ask a doctor if it at on or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Use diecty , do not combine the product wth other detergents , disinfectants etc .
Stop use and ask a doctor if it at on or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
Use diecty , do not combine the product wth other detergents , disinfectants etc .
Directions 1 .
Ardisinfection : Spray PENACOM direct yorwthairpurfier eliminate polution sources , without dition , keep the effected space closed , spray evenly in all directions according to the usage amount of 5 ml PENACOM peronemin the actual space .
2 .
Skindsifecion : Spray PENACOM with appropriate amount on the affected area , and let the area dry naturaly .
3 .
Surface disinfect on : Evenly wipe or spray PENACOM with appropriate amount on the surface of affected object , and rinse them with dean water or let the m dry natura y after 5 minutes of processing .
4 .
Mucosal dsn fect on : Take appropriate amount of PENACOM dre cty on the oral mucosa , nasal mucosa , vaginal mucosa .
5 .
Fruts and vegetables diifeci on : Spray appropriate amount of PENA COM on the surface of fruits and vegetables or soakt for 10 minutes , then clean it with clean water 6 .
Fabric surface dsn fection : Spray appropriate amount of PENACOM on the surface of the fabrc for 15 minutes .
Other information Keep in cool and dy place away from ght Use the product with in 60 days after the first opening . The surface contaminant should be removed before dsinfecing .
Inactive ingredients Purified water , Borneolum .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel LABEL81763 - 001 - 01 100 ml [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
