WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION HYCAMTIN can cause severe myelosuppression .
Administer first cycle only to patients with baseline neutrophil counts of greater than or equal to 1 , 500 / mm3 and platelet counts greater than or equal to 100 , 000 / mm3 .
Monitor blood cell counts [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : MYELOSUPPRESSION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
HYCAMTIN can cause severe myelosuppression .
Administer first cycle only to patients with baseline neutrophil counts of greater than or equal to 1 , 500 / mm3 and platelet counts of greater than or equal to 100 , 000 / mm3 .
Monitor blood cell counts ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HYCAMTIN ® capsules are indicated for the treatment of relapsed small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) in patients with a prior complete or partial response and who are at least 45 days from the end of first - line chemotherapy .
HYCAMTIN capsules is a topoisomerase inhibitor indicated for treatment of patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is 2 . 3 mg / m2 / day orally once daily for 5 consecutive days starting on Day 1 of a 21 - day cycle .
( 2 . 1 ) • Renal Impairment : Reduce dose if creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) less than 50 mL / min .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of HYCAMTIN capsules is 2 . 3 mg / m2 / day orally once daily , with or without food , for 5 consecutive days , starting on Day 1 of a 21 - day cycle .
Round the dose to the nearest 0 . 25 mg and prescribe the minimum number of 1 mg and 0 . 25 mg capsules .
Prescribe the same number of capsules for each of the 5 dosing days .
Swallow capsules whole .
Do not chew , crush , or divide the capsules .
If a dose of HYCAMTIN capsules is missed or vomiting occurs after taking a dose , do not administer an additional dose and take the next dose at the scheduled time .
2 . 2 Dosage Modifications for Adverse Reactions Diarrhea Do not administer HYCAMTIN capsules to patients with Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea .
After recovery to Grade 1 or less , reduce the dose by 0 . 4 mg / m2 / day for subsequent courses [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hematologic Do not administer subsequent cycles of HYCAMTIN capsules until neutrophils recover to greater than 1 , 000 / mm3 , platelets recover to greater than 100 , 000 / mm3 , and hemoglobin levels recover to greater than or equal to 9 g / dL ( with transfusion if necessary ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Reduce dose by 0 . 4 mg / m2 / day for : • neutrophil counts of less than 500 / mm3 associated with fever or infection or lasting for 7 days or more ; • neutrophil counts of 500 to 1 , 000 / mm3 lasting beyond day 21 of the treatment course ; or • platelet counts less than 25 , 000 / mm3 .
2 . 3 Dosage Modifications for Renal Impairment Reduce the dose of HYCAMTIN capsules in patients with the following creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) , calculated with the Cockcroft - Gault method using ideal body weight .
• CLcr 30 to 49 mL / min : Administer 1 . 5 mg / m2 / day .
• CLcr less than 30 mL / min : Administer 0 . 6 mg / m2 / day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Capsules • 0 . 25 mg : opaque white to yellowish - white and imprinted with HYCAMTIN and 0 . 25 mg .
• 1 mg : opaque pink and imprinted with HYCAMTIN and 1 mg .
Capsules : 0 . 25 mg or 1 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS HYCAMTIN is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to topotecan .
Reactions have included anaphylactoid reactions [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• History of severe hypersensitivity reactions to topotecan ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Diarrhea : Severe diarrhea can occur .
Withhold and reduce dose as recommended .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 2 ) • Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) : Fatal cases have occurred .
Permanently discontinue if confirmed ILD .
( 5 . 3 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of potential risk to the fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 4 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Myelosuppression HYCAMTIN can cause severe myelosuppression .
The following safety data are based on an integrated safety database from four trials in patients with lung cancer ( N = 682 ) who received HYCAMTIN capsules at a dose of 2 . 3 mg / m2 orally once daily for 5 consecutive days , starting on Day 1 of a 21 - day cycle .
The median day for neutrophil and platelet nadirs occurred on Day 15 .
Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 32 % of the 682 patients , with a median duration of 7 days .
Grade 4 neutropenia most commonly occurred during cycle 1 ( 20 % of patients ) .
Clinical sequelae of neutropenia included infection ( 17 % ) , febrile neutropenia ( 4 % ) , sepsis ( 2 % ) , and septic death ( 1 % ) .
Grade 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 6 % , with a median duration of 3 days .
Grade 3 or 4 anemia occurred in 25 % .
HYCAMTIN can cause fatal typhlitis ( neutropenic enterocolitis ) .
Consider the possibility of typhlitis in patients presenting with fever , neutropenia , and abdominal pain .
Administer the first cycle of HYCAMTIN capsules only to patients with a baseline neutrophil count greater than or equal to 1 , 500 / mm3 and a platelet count greater than or equal to 100 , 000 / mm3 .
Monitor blood cell counts frequently during treatment .
Withhold and reduce dose of HYCAMTIN capsules based on neutrophil counts , platelet counts and hemoglobin levels [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Diarrhea Diarrhea , including severe and life - threatening diarrhea requiring hospitalization , can occur with HYCAMTIN capsules .
Diarrhea can occur at the same time as drug - induced neutropenia and its sequelae .
In the 682 patients who received HYCAMTIN capsules in the four lung cancer trials , the incidence of diarrhea caused by HYCAMTIN capsules was 22 % , including Grade 3 ( 4 % ) and Grade 4 ( 0 . 4 % ) .
The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea proximate ( within 5 days ) to Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was 5 % .
The median time to onset of Grade 2 to 4 diarrhea was 9 days in the group receiving HYCAMTIN capsules .
Monitor patients for diarrhea and treat with antidiarrheals at the first sign of diarrhea .
Withhold and dose reduce as recommended based on severity [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Interstitial Lung Disease Interstitial lung disease ( ILD ) , including fatalities , can occur with HYCAMTIN .
Underlying risk factors include history of ILD , pulmonary fibrosis , lung cancer , thoracic radiation , and use of pneumotoxic drugs or colony stimulating factors .
Monitor for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD .
Permanently discontinue HYCAMTIN capsules if ILD is confirmed .
5 . 4 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on animal data , HYCAMTIN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Topotecan caused embryolethality , fetotoxicity , and teratogenicity in rats and rabbits when administered during organogenesis .
Advise women of the potential risk to fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 6 months after the last dose of HYCAMTIN capsules .
Advise males with a female partner of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with HYCAMTIN capsules and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , Nonclincial Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • The most common Grade 3 or 4 hematologic adverse reactions ( incidence > 20 % ) were neutropenia , anemia , and thrombocytopenia .
• The most common ( incidence > 10 % ) non - hematologic adverse reactions ( all Grades ) were nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , alopecia , fatigue , and anorexia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data in the Warnings and Precautions and below reflects exposure to HYCAMTIN capsules in 682 patients with recurrent lung cancer enrolled in four randomized , open label trials , including 275 patients with small lung cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) ( Studies 478 , 065 and 396 ) , and 407 patients with non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) ( Study 387 ) , who received at least one dose of HYCAMTIN capsules .
Patients in these trials had advanced lung cancer and received prior chemotherapy in the first - line setting .
Patients received HYCAMTIN capsules 2 . 3 mg / m2 orally once daily for 5 consecutive days , starting on Day 1 of a 21 - day cycle .
The median number of cycles was 3 ( range : 1 to 20 ) .
The safety of HYCAMTIN capsules was evaluated in a randomized trial ( Study 478 ) conducted in 70 patients with recurrent SCLC [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In the 682 patients who received HYCAMTIN capsules in the four lung cancer trials , 39 deaths ( 6 % ) occurred within 30 days after the last dose for a reason other than progressive disease : 13 due to hematologic toxicity , 5 due to non - hematologic toxicity ( 2 from diarrhea ) , and 21 due to other causes .
Table 1 describes the hematologic and non - hematologic adverse reactions that occurred in greater than 5 % of patients treated with HYCAMTIN capsules in these trials .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in Greater than or Equal to 5 % of Patients With Lung Cancer aAdverse reactions were graded using National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) Common Toxicity Criteria ( CTC ) Version 2 . 0 .
Adverse Reactionsa HYCAMTIN Capsules With Best Supportive Care ( Study 478 ) HYCAMTIN Capsules Lung Cancer Population ( Studies 478 , 065 , 396 and 387 ) N = 70 N = 682 All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 ( % ) Grade 4 ( % ) All Grades ( % ) Grade 3 ( % ) Grade 4 ( % ) Hematologic Anemia 94 15 10 98 18 7 Neutropenia 91 28 33 83 24 32 Thrombocytopenia 81 30 7 81 29 6 Non - hematologic Nausea 27 1 0 33 3 0 Vomiting 19 1 0 21 3 0 . 4 Diarrhea 14 4 1 22 4 0 . 4 Fatigue 11 0 0 19 4 0 . 1 Alopecia 10 0 0 20 0 . 1 0 Pyrexia 7 1 0 5 1 1 Anorexia 7 0 0 14 2 0 Asthenia 3 0 0 7 2 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following reactions have been identified during post approval use of HYCAMTIN .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal : Gastrointestinal perforation General and Administration Site Conditions : Mucosal inflammation Hypersensitivity : Allergic manifestations , anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Avoid concomitant use of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) or breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) inhibitors with HYCAMTIN capsules .
( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Effect of Other Drugs on HYCAMTIN P - glycoprotein or Breast Cancer Resistance Protein Inhibitor Concomitant use of a P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) or breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) inhibitor increases topotecan AUC [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , which may increase the risk of adverse reactions .
Avoid concomitant use HYCAMTIN capsules with P - gp inhibitors or BCRP inhibitors .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on animal data and its mechanism of action , HYCAMTIN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available clinical data on the use of HYCAMTIN in pregnancy .
Topotecan caused embryolethality , fetotoxicity , and teratogenicity in rats and rabbits when administered during organogenesis at doses similar to the clinical dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
In the U . S . general population , the background risk of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data In rabbits , an intravenous dose of 0 . 10 mg / kg / day [ about equal to the 1 . 5 mg / m2 clinical intravenous dose based on body surface area ( BSA ) ] given on days 6 through 20 of gestation caused maternal toxicity , embryolethality , and reduced fetal body weight .
In the rat , an intravenous dose of 0 . 23 mg / kg / day ( about equal to the 1 . 5 mg / m2 clinical intravenous dose based on BSA ) given for 14 days before mating through gestation day 6 caused fetal resorption , microphthalmia , pre - implant loss , and mild maternal toxicity .
Administration of an intravenous dose of 0 . 10 mg / kg / day ( about half the 1 . 5 mg / m2 clinical intravenous dose based on BSA ) to rats on days 6 through 17 of gestation caused an increase in post - implantation mortality .
This dose also caused an increase in total fetal malformations .
The most frequent malformations were of the eye ( microphthalmia , anophthalmia , rosette formation of the retina , coloboma of the retina , ectopic orbit ) , brain ( dilated lateral and third ventricles ) , skull , and vertebrae .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of topotecan or its metabolites in human milk , or their effects on the breastfed infant or milk production .
Lactating rats excrete high concentrations of topotecan into milk ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with HYCAMTIN and for 1 week after the last dose .
Data Following intravenous administration of topotecan to lactating rats at a dose of 4 . 72 mg / m2 ( about twice the 1 . 5 mg / m2 clinical intravenous dose based on BSA ) , topotecan was excreted into milk at concentrations up to 48 - fold higher than those in plasma .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception HYCAMTIN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise female patients of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with HYCAMTIN capsules and for 6 months after the last dose .
Males HYCAMTIN capsules may damage spermatozoa , resulting in possible genetic and fetal abnormalities .
Advise males with a female partner of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with HYCAMTIN capsules and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Infertility Females HYCAMTIN can have both acute and long - term effects on fertility [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Males Effects on spermatogenesis have occurred in animals administered topotecan [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 682 patients with lung cancer who received HYCAMTIN capsules in the four clinical trials , 33 % were aged 65 years and older , while 4 . 8 % were aged 75 years and older .
Treatment - related diarrhea was more frequent in patients aged greater than or equal to 65 years ( 28 % ) compared with those younger than 65 years ( 19 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between patients 65 years and older and younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) greater than or equal to 50 mL / min .
Reduce the dose of HYCAMTIN capsules in patients with CLcr less than 49 mL / min [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdoses ( up to 5 - fold of the prescribed dose ) have occurred in patients receiving HYCAMTIN capsules .
The primary complication of overdosage is myelosuppression .
Mucositis have occurred with overdosages .
If an overdose is suspected , monitor the patient closely for myelosuppression and institute supportive - care measures as appropriate .
11 DESCRIPTION Topotecan is a topoisomerase inhibitor .
The chemical name for topotecan hydrochloride is ( S ) - 10 - [ ( dimethylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - ethyl - 4 , 9 - dihydroxy - 1 H - pyrano [ 3 ' , 4 ' : 6 , 7 ] indolizino [ 1 , 2 - b ] quinoline - 3 , 14 - ( 4 H , 12 H ) - dione monohydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C23H23N3O5 • HCl and the molecular weight is 457 . 9 g / mol .
It is soluble in water and melts with decomposition at 213 ° C to 218 ° C . Topotecan hydrochloride has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] HYCAMTIN capsules , contain topotecan hydrochloride , the content of which is expressed as topotecan free base .
Each 0 . 25 mg and 1 mg capsule contain topotecan hydrochloride equivalent to 0 . 25 mg and 1 mg topotecan free - base , respectively .
The excipients are gelatin , glyceryl monostearate , hydrogenated vegetable oil , and titanium dioxide .
The capsules are imprinted with edible black ink .
The 1 mg capsules also contain red iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Topoisomerase I relieves torsional strain in DNA by inducing reversible single - strand breaks .
Topotecan binds to the topoisomerase I - DNA complex and prevents re - ligation of these single - strand breaks .
The cytotoxicity of topotecan is thought to be due to double - strand DNA damage produced during DNA synthesis , when replication enzymes interact with the ternary complex formed by topotecan , topoisomerase I , and DNA .
Mammalian cells cannot efficiently repair these double - strand breaks .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following administration of HYCAMTIN capsules at doses of 1 . 2 to 3 . 1 mg / m2 ( 0 . 52 to 1 . 35 times the recommended dose ) administered daily for 5 days , the area under the curve ( AUC ) increased proportionally with dose .
Absorption The time to the peak plasma concentrations is between 1 to 2 hours following oral administration .
The oral bioavailability of topotecan is approximately 40 % .
Food Effect Following a high - fat meal , the AUC was similar in the fed and fasted states , while Tmax was delayed from 1 . 5 to 3 hours for topotecan lactone and from 3 to 4 hours for total topotecan .
Distribution Protein binding of topotecan is approximately 35 % .
Elimination The mean terminal half - life ( t ½ ) of topotecan is 3 to 6 hours following oral administration .
Metabolism Topotecan undergoes a reversible pH - dependent hydrolysis of a pharmacologically active lactone moiety .
At pH less than or equal to 4 , the lactone is exclusively present , whereas the ring - opened hydroxy - acid form predominates at physiologic pH . The mean metabolite : parent AUC ratio was less than 10 % for total topotecan and topotecan lactone .
Excretion The overall recovery of drug - related material following 5 daily doses of topotecan was 57 % of the administered oral dose .
In the urine , 20 % of the orally administered dose was excreted as total topotecan and 2 % was excreted as N - desmethyl topotecan .
Fecal elimination of total topotecan accounted for 33 % , while fecal elimination of the active metabolite N - desmethyl topotecan accounted for 1 . 5 % .
Overall , the N - desmethyl metabolite contributed a mean of less than 6 % ( range : 4 % to 8 % ) of the total drug - related material accounted for in the urine and feces .
Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of topotecan were observed based on age , sex , or hepatic impairment following oral administration .
Racial and Ethnic Groups In patients with creatinine clearance ( CLcr ) greater than 80 mL / min , the dose - normalized AUCinf to topotecan lactone and total topotecan each were approximately 30 % higher in Asians compared to Whites Patients with Renal Impairment The mean dose - normalized for total topotecan and topotecan lactone AUCinf increased in advanced cancer patients with renal impairment compared to patients with CLcr greater than 80 mL / min as presented in Table 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Prior platinum - based chemotherapy had no effect on the systemic exposure to both total topotecan and topotecan lactone in patients with CLcr greater than 80 mL / min .
Table 2 .
AUCinf Increases Compared to Normal Renal Function Renal Impairment Geometric Mean Dose - Normalized AUCinf Total Topotecan Topotecan Lactone Whites CLcr 50 - 79 mL / min CLcr 30 - 49 mL / min < 30 mL / min 70 % 108 % 227 % 34 % 80 % 114 % Asians CLcr 50 - 79 mL / min CLcr 30 - 49 mL / min < 30 mL / min 26 % 153 % 331 % 34 % 121 % 247 % Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies Effect of P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) Inhibitors Following coadministration of escalating doses of a dual inhibitor of BCRP and P - gp , the AUCinf of topotecan lactone and total topotecan increased approximately 2 . 5 - fold compared to topotecan alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Coadministration of single oral dose of cyclosporine A ( 15 mg / kg ) , an inhibitor of P - gp , multidrug - resistance - associated protein ( MRP - 1 ) and CYP3A4 , within 4 hours of oral topotecan increased the dose - normalized AUC0 - 24 h of topotecan lactone and total topotecan 2 - to 3 - fold compared to topotecan alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Effect of Gastric Acid Reducing Agents No clinically significant changes in the pharmacokinetics of oral topotecan were observed when coadministered with ranitidine , a histamine - 2 receptor antagonist .
In Vitro Studies Topotecan does not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2A6 , CYP2C8 / 9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , CYP2E , CYP3A , CYP4A , or dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity testing of topotecan has not been done .
Nevertheless , topotecan is known to be genotoxic to mammalian cells and is a probable carcinogen .
Topotecan was mutagenic to L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells and clastogenic to cultured human lymphocytes with and without metabolic activation .
It was also clastogenic to mouse bone marrow .
Topotecan did not cause mutations in bacterial cells .
Topotecan given to female rats prior to mating at an intravenous dose of 1 . 4 mg / m2 [ ( about 0 . 6 times the 2 . 3 mg / m2 oral clinical dose based on body surface area ( BSA ) ] caused superovulation possibly related to inhibition of follicular atresia .
This dose given to pregnant female rats also caused increased pre - implantation loss .
Studies in dogs given an intravenous dose of 0 . 4 mg / m2 ( about 0 . 2 times the 2 . 3 mg / m2 oral clinical dose based on BSA ) of topotecan daily for a month suggest that treatment may cause an increase in the incidence of multinucleated spermatogonial giant cells in the testes .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Small Cell Lung Cancer ( SCLC ) The efficacy of HYCAMTIN capsules was studied in 141 patients with relapsed SCLC in a randomized , controlled , open - label trial ( Study 478 ) .
The patients were prior responders ( complete or partial ) to first - line chemotherapy , were not considered candidates for standard intravenous chemotherapy and had relapsed at least 45 days from the end of first - line chemotherapy .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to HYCAMTIN capsules ( 2 . 3 mg / m2 orally once daily for 5 consecutive days , starting on Day 1 of a 21 - day cycle ) with best supportive care ( BSC ) or BSC alone .
The major efficacy outcome measure was overall survival ( OS ) .
Patients randomized to HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC received a median of 4 courses ( range : 1 to 10 ) and maintained a median dose intensity of 3 . 77 mg / m2 / week .
The median patient age in patients receiving HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC and BSC alone was 60 years and 58 years , while the percentage of patients aged greater than or equal to 65 years was 34 % and 29 % , respectively .
The majority of patients were White ( 99 % ) and male ( 73 % ) .
In the HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC arm , 68 % of patients had extensive disease and 28 % had liver metastasis .
In the BSC alone arm , 61 % had extensive disease and 20 % had liver metastases .
Eighty percent of patients receiving HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC previously received carboplatin or cisplatin and 77 % of patients in the BSC alone arm received prior carboplatin or cisplatin .
In the arm receiving HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC , 18 % of patients had prior carboplatin and 62 % had prior cisplatin .
In the BSC - alone arm , 26 % of patients had prior carboplatin and 51 % had prior cisplatin .
The arm receiving HYCAMTIN capsules with BSC showed a statistically significant improvement in OS compared with the BSC - alone arm ( Log - rank P = 0 . 0104 ) .
Efficacy results are shown in Table 3 and Figure 1 .
Table 3 .
Efficacy Results in Small Cell Lung Cancer in Study 478 Abbreviations : BSC , Best Supportive Care ; N , Total number of patients randomized ; CI , Confidence Interval .
Parameters Treatment Group HYCAMTIN Capsules with BSC BSC ( N = 71 ) ( N = 70 ) Median Overall Survival ( months ) ( 95 % CI ) 6 . 0 ( 4 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) 3 . 2 ( 2 . 6 , 4 . 3 ) Hazard ratio ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 64 ( 0 . 45 , 0 . 90 ) Log - rank P - value 0 . 0104 Figure 1 .
Kaplan - Meier Curves for Overall Survival in Small Cell Lung Cancer in Study 478 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 15 REFERENCES • “ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The 0 . 25 mg HYCAMTIN capsules are opaque white to yellowish - white imprinted with HYCAMTIN and 0 . 25 mg and are available in bottles of 10 : NDC 0078 - 0672 - 01 .
The 1 mg HYCAMTIN capsules are opaque pink imprinted with HYCAMTIN and 1 mg and are available in bottles of 10 : NDC 0078 - 0673 - 01 .
Store refrigerated 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) protected from light in the original carton .
HYCAMTIN is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposable procedures . 1 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Myelosuppression Inform patients that HYCAMTIN decreases blood cell counts , such as white blood cells , platelets , and red blood cells .
Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider promptly for fever or other signs of infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Diarrhea Inform patients that HYCAMTIN capsules can cause diarrhea which may be severe and life - threatening .
Instruct patients how to manage and / or prevent diarrhea and to inform their physician if severe diarrhea occurs during treatment with HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Interstitial Lung Disease ( ILD ) Inform patients of the risks of severe ILD .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately to report new or worsening respiratory symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential and males with female partners of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise women to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant , or if pregnancy is suspected during treatment with HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 6 months after the last dose of HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise males with a female partner of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 3 months after the last dose of HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women to discontinue breastfeeding during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of HYCAMTIN capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Infertility Advise male and female patients of the potential risk for impaired fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2018 - 112 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 9 / 2018 PATIENT INFORMATION HYCAMTIN ® ( hi - CAM - tin ) ( topotecan ) capsules What is the most important information I should know about HYCAMTIN ?
HYCAMTIN may cause serious side effects , including : • Bone marrow problems .
HYCAMTIN can affect your bone marrow and can cause a severe decrease in your white blood cell , red blood cell , and platelet counts .
Decreased blood cell counts can make you more likely to develop bleeding , bruising , anemia , or infections which may be life - threatening .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests regularly to check your blood cell counts during treatment with HYCAMTIN .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any signs of infection , including : • fever ( temperature of 100 . 5 ° F or greater ) • chills • cough • burning or pain on urination • Diarrhea .
HYCAMTIN can cause severe and life - threatening diarrhea that may need to be treated in a hospital .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you develop : • diarrhea with fever • diarrhea 3 or more times a day • diarrhea with stomach - area pain or cramps See “ What are the possible side effects of HYCAMTIN ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is HYCAMTIN ?
HYCAMTIN is a prescription medicine used to treat small cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) that has come back ( relapsed ) and : • the cancer responded to your first chemotherapy , and • it has been at least 45 days from the last dose of chemotherapy It is not known if HYCAMTIN is safe and effective in children .
Do not take HYCAMTIN if you are allergic to topotecan or any of the ingreidents in HYCAMTIN .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in HYCAMTIN .
Before taking HYCAMTIN , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have diarrhea or watery stools • have or have had lung problems • have kidney problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
HYCAMTIN can harm your unborn baby .
• Females who are able to become pregnant should use effective birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with HYCAMTIN and for 6 months after the last dose of HYCAMTIN .
• Males who have female partners who are able to become pregnant , should use effective birth control during treatment with HYCAMTIN and for 3 months after the last dose of HYCAMTIN .
• Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control methods that may be right for you during treatment with HYCAMTIN .
• Your healthcare provider will do a pregnancy test before you start taking HYCAMTIN .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant , think you might be pregnant , or your female partner becomes pregnant during treatment with HYCAMTIN .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if HYCAMTIN passes into your breast milk .
Do not breastfeed during treatment with HYCAMTIN and for 1 week after the last dose .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during this time .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking HYCAMTIN with certain other medicines can affect how HYCAMTIN works causing side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take HYCAMTIN ?
• Take HYCAMTIN exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how many HYCAMTIN capsules to take and when to take them .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
• Your healthcare provider may want you to take both 1 mg and 0 . 25 mg HYCAMTIN capsules for your prescribed dose .
It is important for you to be able to tell the difference between the capsules .
The 1 - mg capsule is a pink color and the 0 . 25 mg capsule is a white to yellowish - white color .
• Take HYCAMTIN one time a day for 5 days in a row .
This treatment will normally be repeated every 3 weeks ( a treatment cycle ) .
Your healthcare provider will decide how long you will take HYCAMTIN .
• Take HYCAMTIN with or without food .
• Swallow HYCAMTIN whole .
Do not open , chew , crush , or divide HYCAMTIN .
• If any of the HYCAMTIN capsules are broken or leaking , do not touch them with your bare hands .
Carefully throw away ( dispose of ) the capsules , and then wash your hands well with soap and water .
• If you get any of the contents of HYCAMTIN capsules on your skin or in your eyes , do the following : • Wash the area of skin well with soap and water right away .
• Wash your eyes right away with gently flowing water for at least 15 minutes .
• Call your healthcare provider if you get a skin reaction or get HYCAMTIN in your eyes .
• If you take too much HYCAMTIN , call your healthcare provider right away .
• If you miss a dose of HYCAMTIN , or if you vomit after taking your HYCAMTIN , take your next dose at the next scheduled time .
Do not take another dose on the same day .
What are the possible side effects of HYCAMTIN ?
HYCAMTIN may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about HYCAMTIN ? ”
• Lung problems that can cause death .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have new or worse symptoms of coughing , fever , shortness of breath , or problems breathing .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to stop taking HYCAMTIN capsules .
The most common side effects of HYCAMTIN include : • decreased blood cell counts • diarrhea • hair loss • nausea • vomiting • fatigue Your healthcare provider may tell you to decrease your dose , temporarily stop , or completely stop taking HYCAMTIN if you develop certain serious side effects during treatment with HYCAMTIN .
HYCAMTIN may cause short - term and long - term fertility problems in females .
This could affect your ability to become pregnant .
HYCAMTIN may cause lower sperm count problems in men .
This could affect your ability to father a child and cause birth defects .
Talk to your healthcare provider about family planning options that might be right for you .
These are not all the possible side effects of HYCAMTIN .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store HYCAMTIN ?
• Store HYCAMTIN in a refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Keep the bottle of HYCAMTIN in the carton that it comes in to protect it from light .
• Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist how to safely throw away any unused or expired HYCAMTIN .
Keep HYCAMTIN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of HYCAMTIN Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use HYCAMTIN for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give HYCAMTIN to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about HYCAMTIN that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in HYCAMTIN ?
Active ingredient : topotecan hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : gelatin , glyceryl monostearate , hydrogenated vegetable oil , and titanium dioxide .
The 1 - mg capsules also contain red iron oxide .
The capsules are imprinted with edible black ink .
Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation , East Hanover , New Jersey 07936 © Novartis T2018 - 113 For more information go to www . pharma . us . novartis . com or call 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 .
Principal Display Panel NDC 0078 - 0672 - 01 HYCAMTIN ® ( topotecan ) Capsules 0 . 25 mg Rx only 10 Capsules Novartis [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0078 - 0673 - 01 HYCAMTIN ® ( topotecan ) Capsules 1 mg Rx only 10 Capsules Novartis [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
