Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % , Homosalate 5 . 5 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 4 . 0 % , .......... Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Contro Center right away .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children .
Directions For Sunscreen use : • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure Reapply at least every 2 hours Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients Water / Aqua / Eau , Pentylene Glycol , Dimethicone , Octyldodecanol , Caprylyl Methicone , Propanediol , Hyaluronic Acid , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Biosaccharide Gum - 4 , Jasminum Sambac ( Jasmine ) Leaf Cell Extract , Glycerin , Dibutyl Lauroyl Glutamide , Carbomer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Dibutyl Ethylhexanoyl Glutamide , Capryloyl Glycerin / Sebacic Acid Copolymer , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Disodium EDTA , Fragrance / Parfum .
Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - RoC - 1964 ( 1 - 800 - 762 - 1964 ) or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
