Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - Itch Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine , genital and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • If condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
INACTIVE INGREDIENT Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Aluminum Sulfate , Beeswax , Calcium Acetate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Dextrin , Glycerin , Maltodextrin , Methylparaben , Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Propylparaben , Sodium Cetearyl Sulfate , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Purified Water Principal Display panel - Tube WINCO NDC 67091 - 055 - 28 MAXIMUM STRENGTH HYDROCORTISONE CREAM with aloe Hydrocortisone 1 % NET WT .
1 OZ ( 28 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Carton WINCO NDC 67091 - 055 - 28 MAXIMUM STRENGTH HYDROCORTISONE CREAM with aloe Hydrocortisone 1 % NET WT .
1 OZ ( 28 G ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
