Rx only FOR USE IN THE EYES ONLY Description : Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % is a noncardioselective beta - adrenoceptor blocking agent for ophthalmic use .
Levobunolol hydrochloride is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C17H25NO3 • HCl Mol .
Wt .
327 . 85 Chemical Name : ( - ) - 5 - [ 3 - ( tert - Butylamino ) - 2 - hydroxypropoxy ] - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 1 ( 2 H ) - naphthalenone hydrochloride .
Each mL of 0 . 5 % contains : ACTIVE : Levobunolol Hydrochloride 0 . 5 % ; INACTIVES : Polyvinyl Alcohol 1 . 4 % , Sodium Chloride , Dibasic Sodium Phosphate , Edetate Disodium , Sodium Metabisulfite , Monobasic Potassium Phosphate , and Purified Water .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 5 . 5 - 7 . 5 ) ; PRESERVATIVE : Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 004 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology : Levobunolol hydrochloride is a noncardioselective beta - adrenoceptor blocking agent , equipotent at both beta1 and beta2 receptors .
Levobunolol hydrochloride is greater than 60 times more potent than its dextro isomer in its beta - blocking activity , yet equipotent in its potential for direct myocardial depression .
Accordingly , the levo isomer , levobunolol hydrochloride , is used .
Levobunolol hydrochloride does not have significant local anesthetic ( membrane - stabilizing ) or intrinsic sympathomimetic activity .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade reduces cardiac output in both healthy subjects and patients with heart disease .
In patients with severe impairment of myocardial function , beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may inhibit the stimulatory effect of the sympathetic nervous system necessary to maintain adequate cardiac function .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade in the bronchi and bronchioles results in increased airway resistance from unopposed parasympathetic activity .
Such an effect in patients with asthma or other bronchospastic conditions is potentially dangerous .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution has been shown to be an active agent in lowering elevated as well as normal intraocular pressure ( IOP ) whether or not accompanied by glaucoma .
Elevated IOP presents a major risk factor in glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
The onset of action with one drop of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution can be detected within one hour after treatment , with maximum effect seen between 2 and 6 hours .
A significant decrease in IOP can be maintained for up to 24 hours following a single dose .
In two separate , controlled studies ( one three - month and one up to 12 months duration ) Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 25 % twice a day controlled the IOP of approximately 64 % and 70 % of the subjects .
The overall mean decrease from baseline was 5 . 4 mm Hg and 5 . 1 mm Hg respectively .
In an open - label study Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 25 % daily controlled the IOP of 72 % of the subjects while achieving an overall mean decrease of 5 . 9 mm Hg .
In controlled clinical studies of approximately two years duration , intraocular pressure was well - controlled in approximately 80 % of subjects treated with Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % twice a day .
The mean IOP decrease from baseline was between 6 . 87 mm Hg and 7 . 81 mm Hg .
No significant effects on pupil size , tear production or corneal sensitivity were observed .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution at the concentrations tested , when applied topically , decreased heart rate and blood pressure in some patients .
The IOP - lowering effect of levobunolol was well maintained over the course of these studies .
In a three - month clinical study , a single daily application of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % controlled the IOP of 72 % of subjects achieving an overall mean decrease in IOP of 7 . 0 mm Hg .
The primary mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of levobunolol hydrochloride in reducing IOP is most likely a decrease in aqueous humor production .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution reduces IOP with little or no effect on pupil size or accommodation in contrast to the miosis which cholinergic agents are known to produce .
The blurred vision and night blindness often associated with miotics would not be expected and have not been reported with the use of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution .
This is particularly important in cataract patients with central lens opacities who would experience decreased visual acuity with pupillary constriction .
Indications and Usage : Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution has been shown to be effective in lowering intraocular pressure and may be used in patients with chronic open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Contraindications : Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in those individuals with bronchial asthma or with a history of bronchial asthma , or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( see WARNINGS ) ; sinus bradycardia ; second and third degree atrioventricular block ; overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) ; cardiogenic shock ; or hypersensitivity to any component of these products .
Warnings : As with other topically applied ophthalmic drugs , Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution may be absorbed systemically .
The same adverse reactions found with systemic administration of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may occur with topical administration .
For example , severe respiratory reactions and cardiac reactions , including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma , and rarely death in association with cardiac failure , have been reported with topical application of beta - adrenergic blocking agents ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation may be essential for support of the circulation in individuals with diminished myocardial contractility , and its inhibition by beta - adrenergic receptor blockade may precipitate more severe failure .
In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of cardiac failure , Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be discontinued .
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease : PATIENTS WITH CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE ( e . g . , CHRONIC BRONCHITIS , EMPHYSEMA ) OF MILD OR MODERATE SEVERITY , BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE OR A HISTORY OF BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASE ( OTHER THAN BRONCHIAL ASTHMA OR A HISTORY OF BRONCHIAL ASTHMA , IN WHICH LEVOBUNOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION IS CONTRAINDICATED , see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) , SHOULD IN GENERAL NOT RECEIVE BETA BLOCKERS , INCLUDING LEVOBUNOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE OPHTHALMIC SOLUTION .
However , if Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is deemed necessary in such patients , then it should be administered cautiously since it may block bronchodilation produced by endogenous and exogenous catecholamine stimulation of beta2 receptors .
Major Surgery The necessity or desirability of withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents prior to major surgery is controversial .
Beta - adrenergic receptor blockade impairs the ability of the heart to respond to beta - adrenergically mediated reflex stimuli .
This may augment the risk of general anesthesia in surgical procedures .
Some patients receiving beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents have been subject to protracted severe hypotension during anesthesia .
Difficulty in restarting and maintaining the heartbeat has also been reported .
For these reasons , in patients undergoing elective surgery , gradual withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be appropriate .
If necessary during surgery , the effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents may be reversed by sufficient doses of such agonists as isoproterenol , dopamine , dobutamine or levarterenol ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Diabetes Mellitus Beta - adrenergic blocking agents should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycemia or to diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask the signs and symptoms of acute hypoglycemia .
Thyrotoxicosis Beta - adrenergic blocking agents may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Patients suspected of developing thyrotoxicosis should be managed carefully to avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta - adrenergic blocking agents , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
These products contain sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Precautions : General : Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used with caution in patients with known hypersensitivity to other beta - adrenoceptor blocking agents .
Use with caution in patients with known diminished pulmonary function .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used with caution in patients who are receiving a beta - adrenergic blocking agent orally , because of the potential for additive effects on systemic beta - blockade or on intraocular pressure .
Patients should not typically use two or more topical ophthalmic beta - adrenergic blocking agents simultaneously .
Because of the potential effects of beta - adrenergic blocking agents on blood pressure and pulse rates , these medications must be used cautiously in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency .
Should signs or symptoms develop that suggest reduced cerebral blood flow while using Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , alternative therapy should be considered .
In patients with angle - closure glaucoma , the immediate objective of treatment is to reopen the angle .
This requires , in most cases , constricting the pupil with a miotic .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution has little or no effect on the pupil .
When Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is used to reduce elevated intraocular pressure in angle - closure glaucoma , it should be followed with a miotic and not alone .
Muscle Weakness : Beta - adrenergic blockade has been reported to potentiate muscle weakness consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms ( e . g . , diplopia , ptosis , and generalized weakness ) .
Drug Interactions : Although Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution used alone has little or no effect on pupil size , mydriasis resulting from concomitant therapy with Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution and epinephrine may occur .
Close observation of the patient is recommended when a beta - blocker is administered to patients receiving catecholamine - depleting drugs such as reserpine , because of possible additive effects and the production of hypotension and / or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
Patients receiving beta - adrenergic blocking agents along with either oral or intravenous calcium antagonists should be monitored for possible atrioventricular conduction disturbances , left ventricular failure and hypotension .
In patients with impaired cardiac function , simultaneous use should be avoided altogether .
The concomitant use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents with digitalis and calcium antagonists may have additive effects on prolonging atrioventricular conduction time .
Phenothiazine - related compounds and beta - adrenergic blocking agents may have additive hypotensive effects due to the inhibition of each other ' s metabolism .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction : While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reactions to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reactions .
Animal Studies : No adverse ocular effects were observed in rabbits administered Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution topically in studies lasting one year in concentrations up to 10 times the human dose concentration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a lifetime oral study in mice , there were statistically significant ( p ≤ 0 . 05 ) increases in the incidence of benign leiomyomas in female mice at 200 mg / kg / day ( 14 , 000 times the recommended human dose for glaucoma ) , but not at 12 or 50 mg / kg / day ( 850 and 3 , 500 times the human dose ) .
In a two year oral study of levobunolol hydrochloride in rats , there was a statistically significant ( p ≤ 0 . 05 ) increase in the incidence of benign hepatomas in male rats administered 12 , 800 times the recommended human dose for glaucoma .
Similar differences were not observed in rats administered oral doses equivalent to 350 times to 2 , 000 times the recommended human dose for glaucoma .
Levobunolol did not show evidence of mutagenic activity in a battery of microbiological and mammalian in vitro and in vivo assays .
Reproduction and fertility studies in rats showed no adverse effect on male or female fertility at doses up to 1 , 800 times the recommended human dose for glaucoma .
Pregnancy : Fetotoxicity ( as evidenced by a greater number of resorption sites ) has been observed in rabbits when doses of levobunolol hydrochloride equivalent to 200 and 700 times the recommended dose for the treatment of glaucoma were given .
No fetotoxic effects have been observed in similar studies with rats at up to 1 , 800 times the human dose for glaucoma .
Teratogenic studies with levobunolol in rats at doses up to 25 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 800 times the recommended human dose for glaucoma ) showed no evidence of fetal malformations .
There were no adverse effects on postnatal development of offspring .
It appears when results from studies using rats and studies with other beta - adrenergic blockers are examined , that the rabbit may be a particularly sensitive species .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Systemic beta - blockers and topical timolol maleate are known to be excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
Adverse Reactions : In clinical trials the use of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution has been associated with transient ocular burning and stinging in up to 1 in 3 patients , and with blepharoconjunctivitis in up to 1 in 20 patients .
Decreases in heart rate and blood pressure have been reported ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and WARNINGS ) .
The following adverse reactions have been reported rarely with the use of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution : iridocyclitis , headache , transient ataxia , dizziness , lethargy , urticaria and pruritus .
Decreased corneal sensitivity has been noted in a small number of patients .
Although levobunolol has minimal membrane - stabilizing activity , there remains a possibility of decreased corneal sensitivity after prolonged use .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported either with levobunolol or ophthalmic use of other beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents : BODY AS A WHOLE : Headache , asthenia , chest pain .
CARDIOVASCULAR : Bradycardia , arrhythmia , hypotension , syncope , heart block , cerebrovascular accident , cerebral ischemia , congestive heart failure , palpitation , cardiac arrest .
DIGESTIVE : Nausea , diarrhea .
PSYCHIATRIC : Depression , confusion , increase in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis , paresthesia .
SKIN : Hypersensitivity , including localized and generalized rash , alopecia , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome .
RESPIRATORY : Bronchospasm ( predominantly in patients with pre - existing bronchospastic disease ) , respiratory failure , dyspnea , nasal congestion .
UROGENITAL : Impotence .
ENDOCRINE : Masked symptoms of hypoglycemia in insulin - dependent diabetics ( see WARNINGS ) .
SPECIAL SENSES : Signs and symptoms of keratitis , blepharoptosis , visual disturbances including refractive changes ( due to withdrawal of miotic therapy in some cases ) , diplopia , ptosis .
Other reactions associated with the oral use of non - selective adrenergic receptor blocking agents should be considered potential effects with ophthalmic use of these agents .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Overdosage : No data are available regarding overdosage in humans .
Should accidental ocular overdosage occur , flush eye ( s ) with water or normal saline .
If accidentally ingested , efforts to decrease further absorption may be appropriate ( gastric lavage ) .
The most common signs and symptoms to be expected with overdosage with administration of a systemic beta - adrenergic blocking agent are symptomatic bradycardia , hypotension , bronchospasm , and acute cardiac failure .
Should these symptoms occur , discontinue Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution therapy and initiate appropriate supportive therapy .
The following supportive measures should be considered : 1 .
Symptomatic bradycardia : Use atropine sulfate intravenously in a dosage of 0 . 25 mg to 2 mg to induce vagal blockade .
If bradycardia persists , intravenous isoproterenol hydrochloride should be administered cautiously .
In refractory cases the use of a transvenous cardiac pacemaker should be considered .
2 .
Hypotension : Use sympathomimetic pressor drug therapy , such as dopamine , dobutamine or levarterenol .
In refractory cases , the use of glucagon hydrochloride may be useful .
3 .
Bronchospasm : Use isoproterenol hydrochloride .
Additional therapy with aminophylline may be considered .
4 .
Acute cardiac failure : Conventional therapy with digitalis , diuretics and oxygen should be instituted immediately .
In refractory cases the use of intravenous aminophylline is suggested .
This may be followed , if necessary , by glucagon hydrochloride which may be useful .
5 .
Heart block ( second or third degree ) : Use isoproterenol hydrochloride or a transvenous cardiac pacemaker .
Dosage and Administration : The recommended starting dose is one to two drops of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % in the affected eye ( s ) once a day .
In patients with more severe or uncontrolled glaucoma , Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % can be administered twice a day .
As with any new medication , careful monitoring of patients is advised .
Dosages above one drop of Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 5 % twice a day are not generally more effective .
If the patient ' s IOP is not at a satisfactory level on this regimen , concomitant therapy with dipivefrin and / or epinephrine , and / or pilocarpine and other miotics , and / or systemically administered carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , such as acetazolamide , can be instituted .
Patients should not typically use two or more topical ophthalmic beta - adrenergic blocking agents simultaneously .
How Supplied : Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % ( Sterile ) is supplied in a plastic bottle with a controlled drop tip in the following sizes : NDC 24208 - 505 - 05 : 5 mL NDC 24208 - 505 - 10 : 10 mL NDC 24208 - 505 - 15 : 15 mL Storage : Store between 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Replace cap immediately after use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Revised August 2016 9117403 ( Folded ) 9117503 ( Flat ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 24208 - 505 - 05 Levobunolol Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 5 % ( Sterile ) FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
Rx only 5 mL BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
