Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Sunscreen • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • Retains SPF after 40 minutes of activity in the water or sweating For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• For sunscreen use • Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure to all skin exposed to the sun • Reapply • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Do not remain in the sun for too long , even if you are using a sunscreen product .
Even with UV light protection , direct sunlight at noontime is to be avoided .
If not enough of the product is used , the sun protection provided is significantly reduced .
Avoid excessive sunbathing .
Do not expose infants and small children to direct sunlight .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Ask a doctor before use on children under six month of age Do not store above 25 ° C . protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun coco caprylate , pongamia glabra seed oil , tocopherol , capric caprylic triglyceride , polyhydroxystearic acid , cetearyl alcohol , cetearyl olivate , sorbitan olivate , water , pentylene glycol nat . , carrageenan , xanthan gum , sodium polyphosphate , sodium stearoyl glutamate , cardiospermum halicacabum seed extract , glycerin , polygonum aviculare extract , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) oil , squalene , solanum lycopersicum ( tomato ) fruit extract , ectoine , lactic acid , parfum ( fragrance ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
