DESCRIPTION LACRISERT ® ( hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic insert ) is a sterile , translucent , rod - shaped , water soluble , ophthalmic insert made of hydroxypropyl cellulose , for administration into the inferior cul - de - sac of the eye .
The chemical name for hydroxypropyl cellulose is cellulose , 2 - hydroxypropyl ether .
It is an ether of cellulose in which hydroxypropyl groups ( - CH2CHOHCH3 ) are attached to the hydroxyls present in the anhydroglucose rings of cellulose by ether linkages .
A representative structure of the monomer is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight is typically 1 × 106 .
Hydroxypropyl cellulose is an off - white , odorless , tasteless powder .
It is soluble in water below 38 ° C , and in many polar organic solvents such as ethanol , propylene glycol , dioxane , methanol , isopropyl alcohol ( 95 % ) , dimethyl sulfoxide , and dimethyl formamide .
Each LACRISERT is 5 mg of hydroxypropyl cellulose .
LACRISERT contains no preservatives or other ingredients .
It is about 1 . 27 mm in diameter by about 3 . 5 mm long .
LACRISERT is supplied in packages of 60 units , together with illustrated instructions and a special applicator for removing LACRISERT from the unit dose blister and inserting it into the eye .
A spare applicator is included in each package .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics LACRISERT acts to stabilize and thicken the precorneal tear film and prolong the tear film breakup time which is usually accelerated in patients with dry eye states .
LACRISERT also acts to lubricate and protect the eye .
LACRISERT usually reduces the signs and symptoms resulting from moderate to severe dry eye syndromes , such as conjunctival hyperemia , corneal and conjunctival staining with rose bengal , exudation , itching , burning , foreign body sensation , smarting , photophobia , dryness and blurred or cloudy vision .
Progressive visual deterioration which occurs in some patients may be retarded , halted , or sometimes reversed .
In a multicenter crossover study the 5 mg LACRISERT administered once a day during the waking hours was compared to artificial tears used four or more times daily .
There was a prolongation of tear film breakup time and a decrease in foreign body sensation associated with dry eye syndrome in patients during treatment with inserts as compared to artificial tears ; these findings were statistically significantly different between the treatment groups .
Improvement , as measured by amelioration of symptoms , by slit lamp examination and by rose bengal staining of the cornea and conjunctiva , was greater in most patients with moderate to severe symptoms during treatment with LACRISERT .
Patient comfort was usually better with LACRISERT than with artificial tears solution , and most patients preferred LACRISERT .
In most patients treated with LACRISERT for over one year , improvement was observed as evidenced by amelioration of symptoms generally associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca such as burning , tearing , foreign body sensation , itching , photophobia and blurred or cloudy vision .
During studies in healthy volunteers , a thickened precorneal tear film was usually observed through the slit - lamp while LACRISERT was present in the conjunctival sac .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Hydroxypropyl cellulose is a physiologically inert substance .
In a study of rats fed hydroxypropyl cellulose or unmodified cellulose at levels up to 5 % of their diet , it was found that the two were biologically equivalent in that neither was metabolized .
Studies conducted in rats fed 14 C - labeled hydroxypropyl cellulose demonstrated that when orally administered , hydroxypropyl cellulose is not absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is quantitatively excreted in the feces .
Dissolution studies in rabbits showed that hydroxypropyl cellulose inserts became softer within 1 hour after they were placed in the conjunctival sac .
Most of the inserts dissolved completely in 14 to 18 hours ; with a single exception , all had disappeared by 24 hours after insertion .
Similar dissolution of the inserts was observed during prolonged administration ( up to 54 weeks ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE LACRISERT is indicated in patients with moderate to severe dry eye syndromes , including keratoconjunctivitis sicca .
LACRISERT is indicated especially in patients who remain symptomatic after an adequate trial of therapy with artificial tear solutions .
LACRISERT is also indicated for patients with : • Exposure keratitis Decreased corneal sensitivity Recurrent corneal erosions CONTRAINDICATIONS LACRISERT is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to hydroxypropyl cellulose .
WARNINGS Instructions for inserting and removing LACRISERT should be carefully followed .
PRECAUTIONS General If improperly placed , LACRISERT may result in corneal abrasion ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised to follow the instructions for using LACRISERT which accompany the package .
Because this product may produce transient blurring of vision , patients should be instructed to exercise caution when operating hazardous machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions Application of hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic inserts to the eyes of unanesthetized rabbits immediately prior to or two hours before instilling pilocarpine , proparacaine HCl ( 0 . 5 % ) , or phenylephrine ( 5 % ) did not markedly alter the magnitude and / or duration of the miotic , local corneal anesthetic , or mydriatic activity , respectively , of these agents .
Under various treatment schedules , the anti - inflammatory effect of ocularly instilled dexamethasone ( 0 . 1 % ) in unanesthetized rabbits with primary uveitis was not affected by the presence of hydroxypropyl cellulose inserts .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Feeding of hydroxypropyl cellulose to rats at levels up to 5 % of their diet produced no gross or histopathologic changes or other deleterious effects .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been reported in patients treated with LACRISERT , but were in most instances mild and transient : • Transient blurring of vision ( see PRECAUTIONS ) Ocular discomfort or irritation Matting or stickiness of eyelashes Photophobia Hypersensitivity Edema of the eyelids Hyperemia To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch & Lomb Incorporated at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One LACRISERT ophthalmic insert in each eye once daily is usually sufficient to relieve the symptoms associated with moderate to severe dry eye syndromes .
Individual patients may require more flexibility in the use of LACRISERT ; some patients may require twice daily use for optimal results .
Clinical experience with LACRISERT indicates that in some patients several weeks may be required before satisfactory improvement of symptoms is achieved .
LACRISERT is inserted into the inferior cul - de - sac of the eye beneath the base of the tarsus , not in apposition to the cornea , nor beneath the eyelid at the level of the tarsal plate .
If not properly positioned , it will be expelled into the interpalpebral fissure , and may cause symptoms of a foreign body .
Illustrated instructions are included in each package .
While in the licensed practitioner ' s office , the patient should read the instructions , then practice insertion and removal of LACRISERT until proficiency is achieved .
NOTE : Occasionally LACRISERT is inadvertently expelled from the eye , especially in patients with shallow conjunctival fornices .
The patient should be cautioned against rubbing the eye ( s ) containing LACRISERT , especially upon awakening , so as not to dislodge or expel the insert .
If required , another LACRISERT ophthalmic insert may be inserted .
If experience indicates that transient blurred vision develops in an individual patient , the patient may want to remove LACRISERT a few hours after insertion to avoid this .
Another LACRISERT ophthalmic insert may be inserted if needed .
If LACRISERT causes worsening of symptoms , the patient should be instructed to inspect the conjunctival sac to make certain LACRISERT is in the proper location , deep in the inferior cul - de - sac of the eye beneath the base of the tarsus .
If these symptoms persist , LACRISERT should be removed and the patient should contact the practitioner .
HOW SUPPLIED LACRISERT , a sterile , translucent , rod - shaped , water - soluble , ophthalmic insert made of hydroxypropyl cellulose , 5 mg , is supplied as follows : NDC 24208 - 800 - 60 in packages containing 60 unit doses ( each wrapped in an aluminum blister ) , two reusable applicators , and a plastic storage container to store the applicators after use .
Storage Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Renaissance Lakewood , LLC Lakewood , NJ 08701 USA LACRISERT is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2019 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9421405 Revised : 10 / 2019 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE LACRISERT ® ( hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic insert ) FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY • Note : Your licensed practitioner or a trained associate can demonstrate the proper use of LACRISERT ® .
Please read and follow these instructions carefully for your subsequent use .
Clinical experience with LACRISERT indicates that in some patients several weeks may be required before satisfactory improvement of symptoms is achieved .
Two applicators ( one spare ) are supplied with each package .
Preparing to Insert LACRISERT Before opening the package of LACRISERT , wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 1 : On a flat surface , open blister pocket slowly and smoothly by peeling back label area .
Each blister pocket contains one LACRISERT ophthalmic insert .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 2 : Open applicator package with label side up .
Avoid touching grooved tip of the applicator .
Pick up applicator by the wide end and rinse the tip thoroughly under hot running tap water .
Gently shake off excess water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 3 : Hold applicator with tip facing down and with forefinger on top to guide and apply gentle pressure .
Lightly press the grooved tip of the applicator onto the LACRISERT ophthalmic insert and it will adhere to the applicator .
It is important to follow STEPS 4 and 5 carefully or you might experience difficulty in keeping LACRISERT ( hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic insert ) in your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 4 : Look into a mirror .
Starting with the right eye , turn your head to the right so that the colored part of the eye is close to your nose .
Use your free hand to grasp the lower lid between the thumb and index finger .
Pull the lid away from the eyeball and create a pocket between the white part of the eyeball and the lid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STEP 5 : Place the tip of the applicator containing LACRISERT into the pocket .
Avoid touching the colored part of the eye .
Remove the applicator .
It is important , after removing the applicator , to look down , then release the lower eyelid .
LACRISERT ( hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic insert ) should remain deep in the lower pocket recess of the eye and not near the edge of the lower eyelid .
Repeat procedure with left eye , turning head to the left so that the colored part of the eye is close to your nose .
Rinse the applicator thoroughly under hot running tap water after use .
Gently shake off visible water droplets and promptly return it to the storage container .
Note that the storage container provides space for a strip of two LACRISERT ophthalmic inserts next to the applicator storage compartment .
IMPORTANT If LACRISERT causes worsening of symptoms , or if new symptoms develop , it should be removed and your prescriber contacted .
Should the removal of the LACRISERT ophthalmic insert be necessary , follow these instructions .
• 1 .
Locate LACRISERT by pulling the lid away from the eyeball while looking for LACRISERT in a mirror .
• 2 .
Then close the eyelids .
• 3 .
When located , move LACRISERT upward with your fingers through the closed eyelids .
• 4 .
Keep the lids against the eyeball and LACRISERT should slip over the lid margin so that you can remove it with a clean facial tissue without touching the colored part of the eye .
CAUTION : Because this product may produce transient blurring of vision , you should exercise caution when operating hazardous machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Store below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) Distributed by : Bausch + Lomb , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Renaissance Lakewood , LLC , Lakewood , NJ 08701 USA This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
LACRISERT is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2019 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates 9421304 Revised : 10 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Carton of 60 NDC 24208 - 800 - 60 Rx only LACRISERT ® ( hydroxypropyl cellulose ophthalmic insert ) 5 mg FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Carton also contains two sterile applicators and a storage container .
CONTAINS NO PRESERVATIVE 60 STERILE OPHTHALMIC INSERTS BAUSCH + LOMB [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
