Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 17 % Uses for the removal of common warts .
The common wart is easily recognized by the rough “ cauliflower - like ” appearance of the surface .
for the removal of common warts .
The common wart is easily recognized by the rough “ cauliflower - like ” appearance of the surface .
Purpose Wart Remover Liquid Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use : in or near eyes or mucous membranes .
On irritated skin .
If prone to allergic reaction to any ingredient in this product .
On moles , birthmarks , warts with hair growing from them , genital warts , or warts on the face or mucous membranes .
On any area that is infected or reddened .
If you are a diabetic , or have poor blood circulation n on large area of the body , on wounds or damaged skin .
When using this product : If product gets in eyes , flush with water for 15 minutes .
Do not inhale vapors .
Cap bottle tightly and store at room temperature away from heat .
If discomfort persists , see your doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ; Irritation occurs n condition worsens or does not improve or discomfort persists .
If pregnant or breast - feeding .
Ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Warnings • Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Other Information Store between 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Cap bottle tightly .
Use product in well ventilated area .
Avoid inhaling vapors .
Retain packaging for full labeling .
Directions • Wash affected area and dry thoroughly .
• Apply one drop at a time with applicator to sufficiently cover each wart .
• Let dry .
• Repeat this procedure once or twice daily as needed for up to 2 weeks .
Inactive Ingredients Flexible Collodion ( Alcohol , Camphor , Mineral Oil ) , and Isopropyl Alcohol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
