Active Ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Do Not Use if Do not use ■ for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor ■ for teethings .
■ in children under 2 years of age .
Allergy alert ■ do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if ■ sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ■ irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens ■ swelling , rash or fever develops .
■ These symptoms may be a sign of infection or a serious condition .
Directions Adults & children , 12 yrs of age & older ■ Apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children 2 yrs of age & older ■ As directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 2 years of age ■ Do not use .
Purpose Pain Reliever Warnings Warnings : Do not exceed recommended dosage Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help immediately .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : Pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) , Headache , Rapid heart rate , Shortness of breath , Dizziness or lightheadedness , Fatigue or lack of energy .
Do not use : for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor for teethings in children under 2 years of age .
Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
If a skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a dentist or doctor if : sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days .
irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens .
swelling , rash or fever develops .
These symptoms may be a sign of infection or a serious condition .
Other Information Store between 15º to 30ºC ( 59º to 86ºF ) .
Inactive Ingredients Clove Oil , Ethyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Polyethylene Glycol , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin , Sodium Methylparaben .
Uses Uses ■ for the temporary relief of pain due to .
■ toothache ■ minor irritation or injury of the mouth & gums ■ irritation cause by dentures or orthodontic appliances ■ sore gums .
Warning Warnings : Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help immediately .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
