Active ingredient Hydroxyethyl Cellulose 1 . 27 % w / w Inactive ingredient De - lonized Water , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Benzoate , Polysorbate 20 , Disodium EDTA , Lactic Acid Indication for use Aopar Water - based Personal Lubricant is a supplement for the nature lubrication of penis or vagina , intending to moisturize and enhance the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity .
This product is compatible with natural rubber latex , polyurethane and polyisoprene condoms .
When using Virginal / Anal dryness and / or intimate sexual activity .
This product is not a contraceptive and does not contain a spermicide .
Do not use This product is not a contraceptive or spermicide .
Stop use If irriation or discomfor occurs , please discontinue to use and consult a physician .
Very slippery surfaces , clean the spills immediately .
Ask doctor If irriation or discomfor occurs , please discontinue to use and consult a doctor / physician .
Ask doctor / pharmacist If irriation or discomfor occurs , please discontinue to use and consult a doctor / physician .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of children and pets ' reach .
Questions Please contact us when you have any questions .
86 - 755 - 83286325 / services @ aopar . com Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage Aopar Water - based Personal Lubricant is a supplement for the nature lubrication of penis or vagina , intending to moisturize and enhance the ease and comfort of intimate sexual activity .
This product is compatible with natural rubber latex , polyurethane and polyisoprene condoms .
This product is not a contraceptive or spermicide .
Direction Apply a small amount to genital areas .
Reapply as needed or desired .
Dosage forms & strengths The lubricant is like oil form .
The active ingredient strength is 1 . 27 % w / w .
Warnings If irriation or discomfor occurs , please discontinue to use and consult a physician .
Very slippery surfaces , clean the spills immediately .
This product is not a contraceptive or spermicide .
Keep out of children and pets ' reach .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
