1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is an aminosalicylate indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established ( 1 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is indicated for the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults .
Limitations of Use : Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets beyond 6 weeks have not been established .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Important Administration Instructions ( 2 . 1 ) : • Do not substitute one Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet for two mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg oral products ( 2 . 1 ) • Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) • Take on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal • Swallow whole ; do not cut , break or chew the tablets .
Treatment of Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis ( 2 . 2 ) : • Recommended dosage is 1600 mg ( two 800 mg tablets ) three times daily for 6 weeks .
2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Do not substitute one Mesalamine delayed - release 800 tablet for two mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg oral products [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
• Take Mesalamine delayed - release tablets on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Swallow Mesalamine delayed - release tablets whole .
Do not cut , break or chew the tablets .
• Intact , partially intact , and / or tablet shells have been reported in the stool ; Instruct patients to contact their physician if this occurs repeatedly .
• Protect Mesalamine delayed - release tablets from moisture .
2 . 2 Dosage Information For the treatment of moderately active ulcerative colitis , the recommended dosage of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in adults is 1600 mg ( two 800 mg tablets ) three times daily ( total daily dosage of 4 . 8 grams ) for a duration of 6 weeks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Delayed - release tablets : 800 mg ( 3 ) Mesalamine delayed - release tablets : 800 mg ( red - brown , capsule - shaped and imprinted with " WC 800 " in black ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets ( 4 , 5 . 3 ) .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected hypersensitivity to salicylates or aminosalicylates or to any of the ingredients of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) , and Description ( 11 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Renal Impairment : Evaluate the risks and benefits in patients with known renal impairment or taking nephrotoxic drugs ; monitor renal function ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 6 , 13 . 2 ) • Mesalamine - induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome : Symptoms may be difficult to distinguish from an ulcerative colitis exacerbation ; monitor for worsening symptoms ; discontinue if acute intolerance syndrome suspected ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions , including Myocarditis and Pericarditis : Evaluate patients immediately and discontinue if a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected ( 5 . 3 ) • Hepatic Failure : Evaluate the risks and benefits in patients with known liver impairment ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment , including minimal change nephropathy , acute and chronic interstitial nephritis , and , rarely , renal failure , has been reported in patients taking products such as Mesalamine delayed - release tablets that contain or are converted to mesalamine [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and periodically while on therapy .
Evaluate the risks and benefits of using Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease or taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Mesalamine - Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis .
Exacerbation of the symptoms of colitis has been reported in 2 . 3 % of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets - treated patients in controlled clinical trials .
This acute reaction , characterized by cramping , abdominal pain , bloody diarrhea , and occasionally by fever , headache , malaise , pruritus , rash , and conjunctivitis , has been reported after the initiation of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets as well as other mesalamine products .
Symptoms usually abate when Mesalamine delayed - release tablets are discontinued .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients taking sulfasalazine .
Some patients may have a similar reaction to Mesalamine delayed - release tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine .
As with sulfasalazine , mesalamine - induced hypersensitivity reactions may present as internal organ involvement , including myocarditis , pericarditis , nephritis , hepatitis , pneumonitis , and hematologic abnormalities .
Evaluate patients immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction are present .
Discontinue Mesalamine delayed - release if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established .
5 . 4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre - existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine .
Caution should be exercised when administering Mesalamine delayed - release tablets to patients with liver impairment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) are headache , nausea , nasopharyngitis , abdominal pain , and worsening of ulcerative colitis ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 433 - 8871 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch The most serious adverse reactions seen in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets clinical trials or with other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine were : • Renal Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Mesalamine - Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hepatic Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets has been evaluated in 896 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled studies .
Three six - week , active - controlled studies were conducted comparing Mesalamine delayed - release tablets 4 . 8 grams per day with mesalamine - delayed release tablets 2 . 4 grams per day in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis .
In these studies , 727 patients were dosed with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and 732 patients were dosed with mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
The most common reactions reported in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group were headache ( 4 . 7 % ) , nausea ( 2 . 8 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 2 . 5 % ) , abdominal pain ( 2 . 3 % ) , diarrhea ( 1 . 7 % ) , and dyspepsia ( 1 . 7 % ) ; Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in the three studies .
The most common reactions in patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis ( 602 patients dosed with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and 618 patients dosed with mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg ) were the same as all treated patients .
Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 3 . 9 % of patients in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and in 4 . 2 % of patients in the mesalamine delayed - release tablet comparator group .
The most common cause for discontinuation was gastrointestinal symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis .
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 0 . 8 % of patients in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and in 1 . 8 % of patients in the mesalamine delayed - release tablet comparator group .
The majority involved the gastrointestinal system .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions Occurring in 1 Percent or More of All Treated Patients ( Three studies combined ) N = number of patients within specified treatment group Percent = percentage of patients in category and treatment group * One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Mesalamine delayed - release 2 . 4 grams per day Mesalamine delayed - release tablets Adverse Reaction ( 400 mg Tablet ) 4 . 8 grams per day ( 800 mg Tablet ) ( N = 732 ) ( N = 727 ) Headache 4 . 9 % 4 . 7 % Nausea 2 . 9 % 2 . 8 % Nasopharyngitis 1 . 4 % 2 . 5 % Abdominal pain 2 . 3 % 2 . 3 % Diarrhea 1 . 9 % 1 . 7 % Dyspepsia 0 . 8 % 1 . 7 % Vomiting 1 . 6 % 1 . 4 % Flatulence 0 . 7 % 1 . 2 % Influenza 1 . 2 % 1 . 0 % Pyrexia 1 . 2 % 0 . 7 % Cough 1 . 4 % 0 . 3 % 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving the Mesalamine delayed - release tablet , the adverse events listed below have been reported in postmarketing experience with other mesalamine - containing products or products that are metabolized to mesalamine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : Facial edema , edema , peripheral edema , asthenia , chills , infection , malaise , pain , neck pain , chest pain , back pain , abdominal enlargement , lupus - like syndrome , drug fever ( rare ) .
Cardiovascular : Pericarditis ( rare ) and myocarditis ( rare ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] , pericardial effusion , vasodilation , migraine .
Gastrointestinal : Dry mouth , stomatitis , oral ulcers , anorexia , increased appetite , eructation , pancreatitis , cholecystitis , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal bleeding , perforated peptic ulcer ( rare ) , constipation , hemorrhoids , rectal hemorrhage , bloody diarrhea , tenesmus , stool abnormality .
Hepatic : There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity , including jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , hepatitis , and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome , that included changes in liver enzymes , was also reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis ( rare ) , aplastic anemia ( rare ) , anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , eosinophilia , lymphadenopathy .
Musculoskeletal : Gout , rheumatoid arthritis , arthritis , arthralgia , joint disorder , myalgia , hypertonia .
Neurological / Psychiatric : Anxiety , depression , somnolence , insomnia , nervousness , confusion , emotional lability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , paresthesia , hyperesthesia , peripheral neuropathy ( rare ) , Guillain - Barre syndrome ( rare ) , and transverse myelitis ( rare ) .
Respiratory / Pulmonary : Sinusitis , rhinitis , pharyngitis , asthma exacerbation , pleuritis , bronchitis , eosinophilic pneumonia , interstitial pneumonitis .
Skin : Alopecia , psoriasis ( rare ) , pyoderma gangrenosum ( rare ) , erythema nodosum , acne , dry skin , sweating , pruritus , urticaria , rash .
Special Senses : Ear pain , tinnitus , ear congestion , ear disorder , conjunctivitis , eye pain , blurred vision , vision abnormality , taste perversion .
Renal / Urogenital : Renal failure ( rare ) , interstitial nephritis , minimal change nephropathy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , dysuria , urinary frequency and urgency , hematuria , epididymitis , decreased libido , dysmenorrhea , menorrhagia .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Elevated AST ( SGOT ) or ALT ( SGPT ) , elevated alkaline phosphatase , elevated GGT , elevated LDH , elevated bilirubin , elevated serum creatinine and BUN .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs : Increased risk of nephrotoxicity ; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine - related adverse reactions .
( 7 . 1 ) • Azathioprine or 6 - Mercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders ; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts ( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Nephrotoxic Agents , Including Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents , including nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity .
Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine - related adverse reactions [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Azathioprine or 6 - Mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6 - mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders .
If concomitant use of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and azathioprineor 6 - mercaptopurine cannot be avoided , monitor blood tests , including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Geriatric Patients : Increased risk of blood dyscrasias ; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited published data on mesalamine use in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk .
No fetal harm was observed in animal reproduction studies of mesalamine in rats and rabbits at oral doses approximately 0 . 97 times ( rat ) and 1 . 95 times ( rabbit ) the recommended human dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies with mesalamine were performed during organogenesis in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
These mesalamine doses were about 0 . 97 times ( rat ) and 1 . 95 times ( rabbit ) the recommended human dose of 4 . 8 grams per day , based on body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Mesalamine and its N - acetyl metabolite are present in human milk in undetectable to small amounts [ see Data ] .
There are limited reports of diarrhea in breastfed infants .
There is no information on the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Mesalamine delayed - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from the drug or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfed infants for diarrhea .
Data Human Data In published lactation studies , maternal mesalamine doses from various oral and rectal formulations and products ranged from 500 mg to 3 g daily .
The concentration of mesalamine in milk ranged from non - detectable to 0 . 11 mg / L .
The concentration of the N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid metabolite ranged from 5 to 18 . 1 mg / L .
Based on these concentrations , estimated infant daily dosages for an exclusively breastfed infant are 0 to 0 . 017 mg / kg / day of mesalamine and 0 . 75 to 2 . 72 mg / kg / day of N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
See the prescribing information for other approved mesalamine products for the safety and effectiveness of these products in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Reports from uncontrolled clinical studies and postmarketing experience for another oral formulation of mesalamine suggest a higher incidence of blood dyscrasias ( agranulocytosis , neutropenia , pancytopenia ) in patients who were 65 years or older compared to younger patients .
Monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts in elderly patients during therapy with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
In general , the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in elderly patients should be considered when prescribing Mesalamine delayed - release tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Mesalamine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Evaluate renal function in all patients prior to initiation and periodically while on Mesalamine delayed - release tablets therapy .
Monitor patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease or taking nephrotoxic drugs for decreased renal function and mesalamine - related adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for mesalamine overdose and treatment for suspected acute severe toxicity with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets should be symptomatic and supportive .
This may include prevention of further gastrointestinal tract absorption , correction of fluid electrolyte imbalance , and maintenance of adequate renal function .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is a pH dependent delayed - release product and this factor should be considered when treating a suspected overdose .
Single oral doses of 5000 mg / kg mesalamine suspension in mice ( approximately 4 . 2 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) , 4595 mg / kg in rats ( approximately 7 . 8 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) and 3000 mg / kg in cynomolgus monkeys ( approximately 10 times the recommended human dose of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets based on body surface area ) were lethal .
11 DESCRIPTION Each Mesalamine delayed - release tablet for oral administration contains 800 mg of mesalamine , an aminosalicylate .
Mesalamine delayed - release tablets have an outer protective coat consisting of a combination of acrylic based resins , Eudragit S ( methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer ( 1 : 2 ) , NF ) and Eudragit L ( methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer ( 1 : 1 ) , NF ) .
The inner coat consists of an acrylic based resin , Eudragit S , which dissolves at pH 7 or greater , releasing mesalamine in the terminal ileum and beyond for topical anti - inflammatory action in the colon .
Mesalamine ( also referred to as 5 - aminosalicylic acid or 5 - ASA ) has the chemical name 5 - amino - 2 - hydroxybenzoic acid ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients : Each tablet contains colloidal silicon dioxide , dibutyl sebacate , edible black ink , ferric oxide red , ferric oxide yellow , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer ( 1 : 2 ) ( Eudragit S ) , methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer ( 1 : 1 ) ( Eudragit L ) , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , and talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of mesalamine is unknown , but appears to be topical rather than systemic .
Mucosal production of arachidonic acid metabolites , both through the cyclooxygenase pathways , that is , prostanoids , and through the lipoxygenase pathways , that is , leukotrienes and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids , is increased in patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease , and it is possible that mesalamine diminishes inflammation by blocking cyclooxygenase and inhibiting prostaglandin production in the colon .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Plasma concentrations of mesalamine ( 5 - aminosalicylic acid ; 5 - ASA ) and its metabolite , N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( N - Ac - 5 - ASA ) are highly variable following administration of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
Following single dose oral administration of Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet in healthy subjects ( N = 139 ) under fasted conditions , the mean Cmax , AUC8 - 48 h and AUC0 - tldc values were 208 ng / mL , 2296 ng . h / mL , and 2533 ng . h / mL , respectively .
The median [ range ] Tmax for mesalamine following administration of Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet was approximately 24 hours [ 4 to 72 hours ] , reflecting the delayed - release characteristics of the formulation .
Based on cumulative urinary recovery of mesalamine and N - Ac - 5 - ASA from single dose studies in healthy subjects , approximately 20 % of the orally administered mesalamine in Mesalamine delayed - release tablets is systemically absorbed .
Food Effect : A high calorie ( 800 to 1000 calories ) , high fat ( approximately 50 % of total caloric content ) meal increased mesalamine Cmax by 2 . 4 - fold and mesalamine systemic exposure ( AUC8 - 48 and AUC0 - tldc ) by 2 . 8 - fold ; the median lag - time increased by 8 hours and median tmax by 6 hours ( from 24 to 30 hours ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Comparative exposure between one Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet and two mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg oral products is unknown [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism The absorbed mesalamine is acetylated in the gut mucosal wall and by the liver to N - Ac - 5 - ASA .
Excretion Absorbed mesalamine is excreted mainly by the kidneys asN - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid .
Unabsorbed mesalamine is excreted in feces .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dietary mesalamine was not carcinogenic in rats at doses as high as 480 mg / kg / day , or in mice at 2000 mg / kg / day .
These doses are approximately 0 . 97 and 2 . 0 times the 4 . 8 grams per day Mesalamine delayed - release tablet dose ( based on body surface area ) .
Mesalamine was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay , and the mouse micronucleus test .
Mesalamine , at oral doses up to 480 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 97 times the recommended human treatment dose based on body surface area ) , was found to have no effect on fertility or reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In animal studies ( rats , mice , dogs ) , the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity .
( In the following , comparisons of animal dosing to recommended human dosing are based on body surface area and a 4 . 8 grams per day dose for a 60 kg person . )
Mesalamine causes renal papillary necrosis in rats at single doses of approximately 750 mg / kg to 1000 mg / kg ( 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 times the recommended human dose ) .
Doses of 170 and 360 mg / kg / day ( about 0 . 3 and 0 . 73 times the recommended human dose ) given to rats for six months produced papillary necrosis , papillary edema , tubular degeneration , tubular mineralization , and urothelial hyperplasia .
In mice , oral doses of 4000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 . 1 times the recommended human dose ) for three months produced tubular nephrosis , multifocal / diffuse tubulo - interstitial inflammation , and multifocal / diffuse papillary necrosis .
In dogs , single doses of 6000 mg ( approximately 6 . 25 times the recommended human dose ) of delayed - release mesalamine tablets resulted in renal papillary necrosis but were not fatal .
Renal changes have occurred in dogs given chronic administration of mesalamine at doses of 80 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis The efficacy of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets at 4 . 8 grams per day was studied in a six - week , randomized , double - blind , active - controlled study in 772 patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
Moderately active UC was defined as a Physician ' s Global Assessment ( PGA ) score of 2 ; the PGA is a four - point scale ( 0 to 3 ) that encompasses the clinical assessments of rectal bleeding , stool frequency , and sigmoidoscopy findings .
Patients were randomized 1 : 1 to the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets 4 . 8 grams per day group ( two Mesalamine delayed - release tablets three times a day ) or the mesalamine delayed - release 2 . 4 grams per day group ( two mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg tablets three times a day ) .
Patients characteristically had a history of previous use of oral 5 - ASAs ( 86 % ) , steroids ( 41 % ) , and rectal therapies ( 49 % ) , and demonstrated clinical symptoms of three or more stools over normal per day ( 87 % ) and obvious blood in the stool most or all of the time ( 70 % ) .
The study population was primarily Caucasian ( 97 % ) , had a mean age of 43 years ( 8 % aged 65 years or older ) , and included slightly more males ( 56 % ) than females ( 44 % ) .
The primary endpoint was treatment success defined as improvement from baseline to Week 6 based on the PGA .
Treatment success rates were similar in the two groups : 70 % in the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets group and 66 % in the Asacol group ( difference : 5 % ; 95 % CI : [ - 1 . 9 % , 11 . 2 % ] ) .
A second controlled study supported the efficacy of Mesalamine delayed - release tablets at 4 . 8 grams per day .
Treatment success was 72 % in patients with moderately active UC treated with Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3497 NDC : 50090 - 3497 - 0 180 TABLET , DELAYED RELEASE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] • Inform patients that if they are switching from a previous oral mesalamine therapy to Mesalamine delayed - release tablets to discontinue their previous oral mesalamine therapy and follow the dosing instructions for Mesalamine delayed - release tablets .
One Mesalamine delayed - release 800 mg tablet is not substitutable for two mesalamine delayed - release 400 mg oral products .
• Inform patients to take Mesalamine delayed - release tablets on an empty stomach , at least 1 hour before and 2 hours after a meal .
• Instruct patients to swallow the Mesalamine delayed - release tablets whole , taking care not to break , cut , or chew the tablets , because the coating is an important part of the delayed - release formulation .
• Inform patients that intact , partially intact , and / or tablet shells have been reported in the stool .
Instruct patients to contact their physician if this occurs repeatedly .
• Instruct patients to protect Mesalamine delayed - release tablets from moisture .
Renal Impairment • Inform patients that Mesalamine delayed - release tablets may decrease their renal function , especially if they have known renal impairment or are taking nephrotoxic drugs , and periodic monitoring of renal function will be performed while they are on therapy .
Advise patients to complete all blood tests ordered by their physician [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Mesalamine - Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome • Instruct patients to report to their physician if they experience new or worsening symptoms of cramping , abdominal pain , bloody diarrhea , and sometimes fever , headache , and rash [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions • Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions , and advise them seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hepatic Failure • Inform patients with known liver disease of the signs and symptoms of worsening liver function and advise them to report to their physician if they experience such signs or symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Blood Disorders • Inform elderly patients and those taking azathioprine or 6 - mercaptopurine of the risk for blood disorders and the need for periodic monitoring of complete blood cell counts and platelet counts while on therapy .
Advise patients to complete all blood tests ordered by their physician [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Distributed By : Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 AsacolR is a registered trademark of Medeva Pharma Suisse AG , licensed to Allergan Pharmaceuticals International Limited .
© 2016 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
storage Store and dispense in the original bottle , protect from moisture , and keep the bottle tightly closed .
Do not remove desiccant pouch ( silica gel ) from bottle .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] mesalamine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
