ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredients 1 bottle contains : Acetaminophen 300 mg , Guaifenesin 83 . 3 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Caffeine anhydrous , dl - Methylephedrine HCl , Chlorpheniramine maleate PURPOSE Purpose : Pain reliever / fever reducer , Cough suppressant WARNINGS Warnings : A person who takes more than 3 cups of alcohol everyday should consult physician or pharmacist before using this medicine or another antipyretic analgesics .
If the person takes this medicine , liver damage may be induced .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Use Use : Relief of the symptomatic common cold ( runny nose , stuffy nose , sneezing , cough , sore throat , sputum , chill , fever , headache , joint pain , myalgia ) Directions Directions : Adult , 30 mL , 3 times daily , 30 minutes after meals Stop using and consult a doctor Stop using and consult a doctor : Immediately discontinue taking this medicine in case of followings caused by this medicine , and consult your physician , dentist and pharmacist with this paper .
1 ) rash , erythema , pruritus , vomiting , anorexia , constipation , edema , dysuria , thirst ( continuously or severely ) , dizziness , anxiety , tremor , insomnia 2 ) shock ( anaphylaxis ) : hives , edema , heavy feeling chest symptoms with looking pale , cold hands , cold sweats , dyspnea 3 ) Stevens Johnson syndrome , Lyell syndrome 4 ) asthma 5 ) liver disorder : languor and jaundice can be occurred .
6 ) Interstitial lung disease : It is accompanied by cough and dyspnea and / or fever can be occurred .
In case that the symptoms are not improved though taking this medicine more than 5 - 6 times .
Ask a doctor Ask a doctor : Following patients should consult a physician , dentist or pharmacist before using .
1 ) Infants and children under 15 years old infected with chicken pox or influenza or suspected of infection ( If there are changes in behavior accompanied by vomiting , because it can be the initial symptom of Reye ' s Syndrome rarely , please consult your physician . )
2 ) Please avoid administrating to infants under 3 months and even if patients are more than 3 months , all children under 2 years old should receive the appropriate medication related this medication .
Unless absolutely necessary , do n't administrate it to them .
And if necessary to administrate it , notify it to their parents and monitor them carefully .
3 ) Patients with constitution causing easily hives , contact dermatitis , asthma , allergic rhinitis , migraine and food allergy 4 ) Patients who has medical history of allergic reaction ( fever , rash , arthralgia , asthma , pruitus ) 5 ) Patients who have diseases such as hepatic , cardiovascular , renal or thyroid disorder , diabetes , hypertension , duodenal ulcer , glaucoma ( eye pain , blurred vision ) , dysuria , and the aged , fragile person , person with high fever .
6 ) Patients with or recurrence of heart burn , stomach displeasure , gastric pain or having the problem of ulcer and hemorrhages .
7 ) Pregnant women or women of childbearing potential , nursing mothers .
8 ) Patients with medication of physician or dentist ( Taking medicines for diabetes , gout , arthritis , anticoagulants , steroid medicines and others . )
9 ) Patients with following cough - cough accompanied by smoking , chronic bronchitis , emphysema , immoderate sputum , cough continued more than 1 week and / or recurred , chronic cough , cough accompanied by fever , rash and continuous headache .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
