Active Ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % w / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses Antimicrobial skin cleanser helps reduce bacteria for skin wound and skin cleansing surgical hand scrub healthcare personnel handwash Warnings For external use only .
Do Not Use if you are allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient ( s ) in this preparation as a patient preoperative skin preparation of the head or face in contact with the meninges or in the genital area on wounds involving more than the superficial layers of skin as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if placed or kept in the eye during surgical procedures , or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
if contact occurs in any of these areas , rinse with cold water right away do not inhale or ingest Keep out of reach of children If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs and lasts 72 hours .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Directions use with care in premature infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
skin wound and skin cleansing .
Thoroughly rinse the area to be cleansed with water .
Apply the minimum amount of the product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently .
Rinse thoroughly surgical hand scrub .
Wet hands and forearms with water .
Scrub for 3 minutes with 5 mL of the product with brush .
Rinse thoroughly under running water .
Repeat .
Dry thoroughly .
healthcare personnel handwash .
Wet hands with water .
Dispense 5 mL of the product into cupped hands .
Wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds .
Rinse and dry thoroughly .
Other Information May discolor some fabrics .
Do not use with bleach .
Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Inactive ingredients : Water , lauramine oxide , isopropyl alcohol , gluconolactone .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 813 - 815 - 0530 or www . protectuguard . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
