Active Ingredients Chlorhexidine Gluconate 4 % Solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergc reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardurms .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms with water • scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a seperate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and normal skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol .
Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST .
Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Mölnlycke Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Hibiclens ® .
DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID 30 HUNTER LANE , CAMP HILL , PA 17011 IF YOU ' RE NOT SATISFIED , WE ' LL HAPPILY REFUND YOUR MONEY .
ITEM 362278 Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with the meninges • in the genital area When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms under running water • scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of product and a wet brush , paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a seperate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • wash for an additional 3 minutes with 5 mL of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for about 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinses the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredient cocmide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol .
Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST Laundering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products , such as chlorine bleach .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detergents .
** This product is not manufactured or distributed by Mölnlycke Healthcare , owner of the registered trademark Hibiclens ® .
Uses Dosage and Administration Package label and principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Hibiclens NDC 11822 - 3678 - 8 ANTISEPTIC / ANTIMICROBIAL SKIN CLEANSER CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE 4 % SOLUTION dye free for external use only TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SHRINK SEAL NECKBAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal display panel Compare to the active ingredient in Hibiclens ® * NDC 11822 - 3678 - 7 ANTISEPTIC / ANTIMICROBIAL SKIN CLEANSER CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE 4 % SOLUTION dye free for external use only TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SHRINK SEAL NECKBAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING 16 FL OZ ( 473 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
