DESCRIPTION Kinlytic ™ ( urokinase for injection ) is a thrombolytic agent obtained from human neonatal kidney cells grown in tissue culture .
The principal active ingredient of Kinlytic ™ is the low molecular weight form of urokinase , and consists of an A chain of 2 , 000 daltons linked by a sulfhydryl bond to a B chain of 30 , 400 daltons .
Kinlytic ™ is supplied as a sterile lyophilized white powder containing 250 , 000 international units urokinase per vial , mannitol ( 25 mg / vial ) , Albumin ( Human ) ( 250 mg / vial ) , and sodium chloride ( 50 mg / vial ) .
Following reconstitution with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , Kinlytic ™ is a clear , slightly straw - colored solution ; each mL contains 50 , 000 international units of urokinase activity , 0 . 5 % mannitol , 5 % Albumin ( Human ) , and 1 % sodium chloride ( pH range 6 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
Thin translucent filaments may occasionally occur in reconstituted Kinlytic ™ vials ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Kinlytic ™ is for intravenous infusion only .
Kinlytic ™ is produced from human neonatal kidney cells ( see WARNINGS ) .
No fetal tissue is used in the production of Kinlytic ™ .
Kidney donations are obtained exclusively in the United States from neonates ( birth to 28 days ) for whom death has not been attributed to infectious causes and that have exhibited no evidence of an infectious disease based in part , on an examination of the maternal and neonatal donor medical records .
The maternal and neonatal donor screening process also identifies specific risk factors for known infectious diseases and includes testing of sera for HBV , HCV , HIV - 1 , HIV - 2 , HTLV - I , HTLV - II , CMV , and EBV .
Donors with sera testing positive or associated with other risk factors are excluded .
During the manufacturing process , cells are tested at multiple stages for the presence of viruses using in vitro and in vivo tests that are capable of detecting a wide range of viruses .
Cells are also screened for HPV using a DNA detection - based test and for reovirus using a polymerase chain reaction - based test .
The manufacturing process used for this product has been validated in laboratory studies to inactivate and / or remove a diverse panel of spiked model enveloped and non - enveloped viruses , and includes purification steps and a heat treatment step ( 10 hours at 60 ° C in 2 % sodium chloride ) .
A single vial of Kinlytic ™ contains urokinase produced using cells derived from one or two donors .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Urokinase is an enzyme ( protein ) produced by the kidney , and found in the urine .
There are two forms of urokinase which differ in molecular weight but have similar clinical effects .
Kinlytic ™ is the low molecular weight form .
Kinlytic ™ acts on the endogenous fibrinolytic system .
It converts plasminogen to the enzyme plasmin .
Plasmin degrades fibrin clots as well as fibrinogen and some other plasma proteins .
Information about the pharmacokinetic properties in man is limited .
Urokinase administered by intravenous infusion is rapidly cleared by the liver with an elimination half - life for biologic activity of 12 . 6 ± 6 . 2 minutes and a distribution volume of 11 . 5 L . Small fractions of the administered dose are excreted in bile and urine .
Although the pharmacokinetics of exogenously administered urokinase have not been characterized in patients with hepatic impairment , endogenous urokinase - type plasminogen activator plasma levels are elevated 2 - to 4 - fold in patients with moderate to severe cirrhosis . 1 Thus , reduced urokinase clearance in patients with hepatic impairment might be expected .
Intravenous infusion of Kinlytic ™ in doses recommended for lysis of pulmonary embolism is followed by increased fibrinolytic activity in the circulation .
This effect disappears within a few hours after discontinuation , but a decrease in plasma levels of fibrinogen and plasminogen and an increase in the amount of circulating fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products may persist for 12 - 24 hours . 2 There is a lack of correlation between embolus resolution and changes in coagulation and fibrinolytic assay results .
Treatment with urokinase demonstrated more improvement on pulmonary angiography , lung perfusion scanning , and hemodynamic measurements within 24 hours than did treatment with heparin .
Lung perfusion scanning showed no significant treatment - associated difference by day 7 . 3 Information based on patients treated with fibrinolytics for pulmonary embolus suggests that improvement in angiographic and lung perfusion scans is lessened when treatment is instituted more than several days ( e . g . , 4 to 6 days ) after onset . 4 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Kinlytic ™ is indicated in adults : • For the lysis of acute massive pulmonary emboli , defined as obstruction of blood flow to a lobe or multiple segments .
• For the lysis of pulmonary emboli accompanied by unstable hemodynamics , i . e . , failure to maintain blood pressure without supportive measures .
The diagnosis should be confirmed by objective means , such as pulmonary angiography or non - invasive procedures such as lung scanning .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Kinlytic ™ is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to the product ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Because thrombolytic therapy increases the risk of bleeding , Kinlytic ™ is contraindicated in the situations listed below ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Active internal bleeding • Recent ( e . g . , within two months ) cerebrovascular accident • Recent ( e . g . , within two months ) intracranial or intraspinal surgery • Recent trauma including cardiopulmonary resuscitation • Intracranial neoplasm , arteriovenous malformation , or aneurysm • Known bleeding diatheses • Severe uncontrolled arterial hypertension WARNINGS Bleeding The risk of serious bleeding is increased with use of Kinlytic ™ .
Fatalities due to hemorrhage , including intracranial and retroperitoneal , have been reported in association with urokinase therapy .
Concurrent administration of Kinlytic ™ with other thrombolytic agents , anticoagulants , or agents inhibiting platelet function may further increase the risk of serious bleeding .
Kinlytic ™ therapy requires careful attention to all potential bleeding sites ( including catheter insertion sites , arterial and venous puncture sites , cutdown sites , and other needle puncture sites ) .
Intramuscular injections and nonessential handling of the patient must be avoided during treatment with Kinlytic ™ .
Venipunctures should be performed as infrequently as possible and with care to minimize bleeding .
Should an arterial puncture be necessary , upper extremity vessels are preferable .
Direct pressure should be applied for at least 30 minutes , a pressure dressing applied , and the puncture site checked frequently for evidence of bleeding .
In the following conditions , the risk of bleeding may be increased and should be weighed against the anticipated benefits : • Recent ( within 10 days ) major surgery , obstetrical delivery , organ biopsy , previous puncture of non - compressible vessels • Recent ( within 10 days ) serious gastrointestinal bleeding • High likelihood of a left heart thrombus , for example , mitral stenosis with atrial fibrillation • Subacute bacterial endocarditis • Hemostatic defects including those secondary to severe hepatic or renal disease • Pregnancy • Cerebrovascular disease • Diabetic hemorrhagic retinopathy • Any other condition in which bleeding might constitute a significant hazard or be particularly difficult to manage because of its location When internal bleeding occurs , it may be more difficult to manage than that which occurs with conventional anticoagulant therapy .
Should potentially serious spontaneous bleeding ( not controllable by direct pressure ) occur , the infusion of Kinlytic ™ should be terminated immediately , and measures to manage the bleeding implemented .
Serious blood loss may be managed with volume replacement , including packed red blood cells .
Dextran should not be used .
When appropriate , fresh frozen plasma and / or cryoprecipitate may be considered to reverse the bleeding tendency .
Anaphylaxis and Other Infusion Reactions Post - marketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylaxis ( with rare reports of fatal anaphylaxis ) , bronchospasm , orolingual edema and urticaria ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS : Allergic Reactions ) .
There have also been reports of other infusion reactions which have included one or more of the following : fever and / or chills / rigors , hypoxia , cyanosis , dyspnea , tachycardia , hypotension , hypertension , acidosis , back pain , vomiting , and nausea .
Reactions generally occurred within one hour of beginning Kinlytic ™ infusion .
Patients who exhibit reactions should be closely monitored and appropriate therapy instituted .
Infusion reactions generally respond to discontinuation of the infusion and / or administration of intravenous antihistamines , corticosteroids , or adrenergic agents .
Antipyretics which inhibit platelet function ( aspirin and other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents ) may increase the risk of bleeding and should not be used for treatment of fever .
Cholesterol Embolization Cholesterol embolism has been reported rarely in patients treated with all types of thrombolytic agents ; the true incidence is unknown .
This serious condition , which can be lethal , is also associated with invasive vascular procedures ( e . g . , cardiac catheterization , angiography , vascular surgery ) and / or anticoagulant therapy .
Clinical features of cholesterol embolism may include livedo reticularis , “ purple toe ” syndrome , acute renal failure , gangrenous digits , hypertension , pancreatitis , myocardial infarction , cerebral infarction , spinal cord infarction , retinal artery occlusion , bowel infarction and rhabdomyolysis .
Product Source and Formulation with Albumin Kinlytic ™ is made from human neonatal kidney cells grown in tissue culture .
Products made from human source material may contain infectious agents , such as viruses , that can cause disease .
The risk that Kinlytic ™ will transmit an infectious agent has been reduced by screening donors for prior exposure to certain viruses , by testing donors for the presence of certain current virus infections , by testing for certain viruses during manufacturing , and by inactivating and / or removing certain viruses during manufacturing ( see DESCRIPTION ) .
Despite these measures , Kinlytic ™ may carry a risk of transmitting infectious agents , including those that cause Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) or other diseases not yet known or identified ; thus , the risk of transmission of infectious agents cannot be totally eliminated .
A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) is considered extremely remote .
This product is formulated in 5 % albumin , a derivative of human blood .
Based on effective donor screening and product manufacturing processes , albumin carries an extremely remote risk for transmission of viral diseases .
A theoretical risk for transmission of Creutzfeldt - Jakob disease ( CJD ) also is considered extremely remote .
No cases of transmission of viral diseases or CJD have ever been identified for albumin .
All infections thought by a physician possibly to have been transmitted by this product should be reported by the physician or other healthcare provider to ImaRx Therapeutics , Inc . [ 1 - 866 - 634 - 6279 ] .
PRECAUTIONS General Kinlytic ™ should be used in hospitals where the recommended diagnostic and monitoring techniques are available .
The clinical response and vital signs should be observed frequently during and following Kinlytic ™ infusion .
Blood pressure should not be taken in the lower extremities to avoid dislodgement of possible deep vein thrombi .
Laboratory Tests Before beginning thrombolytic therapy , obtain a hematocrit , platelet count , and an activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) .
If heparin has been given , it should be discontinued and the aPTT should be less than twice the normal control value before thrombolytic therapy is started .
Following intravenous infusion of Kinlytic ™ , before ( re ) instituting anticoagulants , the aPTT should be less than twice the normal control value .
Results of coagulation tests and measures of fibrinolytic activity do not reliably predict either efficacy or risk of bleeding for patients receiving Kinlytic ™ .
Drug Interactions Anticoagulants and agents that alter platelet function ( such as aspirin , other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents , dipyridamole , and GP IIb / IIIa inhibitors ) may increase the risk of serious bleeding .
Administration of Kinlytic ™ prior to , during , or after thrombolytic agents may increase the risk of serious bleeding .
Because concomitant use of Kinlytic ™ with agents that alter coagulation , inhibit platelet function , or are thrombolytic may further increase the potential for bleeding complications , careful monitoring for bleeding is recommended .
The interaction of Kinlytic ™ with other drugs has not been studied and is not known .
Carcinogenicity Adequate data are not available on the long - term potential for carcinogenicity in animals or humans .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in mice and rats at doses up to 1 , 000 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to Kinlytic ™ .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Kinlytic ™ is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Kinlytic ™ did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Kinlytic ™ should be used with caution in elderly patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions reported with Kinlytic ™ administration include fatal hemorrhage and anaphylaxis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Bleeding Bleeding is the most frequent adverse reaction associated with Kinlytic ™ and can be fatal ( see WARNINGS ) .
In controlled clinical studies using a 12 - hour infusion of urokinase for the treatment of pulmonary embolism ( UPET and USPET ) , 3 , 5 , 6 bleeding resulting in at least a 5 % decrease in hematocrit was reported in 52 of 141 urokinase - treated patients .
Significant bleeding events requiring transfusion of greater than 2 units of blood were observed during the 14 - day study period in 3 of 141 urokinase - treated patients in these studies .
Multiple bleeding events may have occurred in an individual patient .
Most bleeding occurred at sites of external incisions and vascular puncture , with lesser frequency in gastrointestinal , genitourinary , intracranial , retroperitoneal , and intramuscular sites .
Sources of Information on Adverse Reactions There are limited well - controlled clinical studies performed using urokinase .
The adverse reactions described in the following sections reflect both the clinical use of Kinlytic ™ in the general population and limited controlled study data .
Because post - marketing reports of adverse reactions are voluntary and the population is of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency of the reaction or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Allergic Reactions Rare cases of fatal anaphylaxis have been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
In controlled clinical trials , allergic reaction was reported in 1 of 141 patients ( < 1 % ) .
The following allergic - type reactions have been observed in clinical trials and / or post - marketing experience : bronchospasm , orolingual edema , urticaria , skin rash , and pruritus ( see WARNINGS ) .
Infusion reaction symptoms include hypoxia , cyanosis , dyspnea , tachycardia , hypotension , hypertension , acidosis , fever and / or chills / rigors , back pain , vomiting , and nausea ( see WARNINGS ) .
Other Adverse Reactions Other adverse events occurring in patients receiving Kinlytic ™ therapy in clinical studies , regardless of causality , include myocardial infarction , recurrent pulmonary embolism , hemiplegia , stroke , decreased hematocrit , substernal pain , thrombocytopenia , and diaphoresis .
Additional adverse reactions reported from post - marketing experience include cardiac arrest , vascular embolization ( cerebral and distal ) including cholesterol emboli ( see WARNINGS ) , cerebral vascular accident , pulmonary edema , reperfusion ventricular arrhythmias and chest pain .
A cause and effect relationship has not been established .
Immunogenicity The immunogenicity of Kinlytic ™ has not been studied .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Kinlytic ™ IS INTENDED FOR INTRAVENOUS INFUSION ONLY .
Kinlytic ™ treatment should be instituted soon after onset of pulmonary embolism .
Delay in instituting therapy may decrease the potential for optimal efficacy ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Dosing • A loading dose of 4 , 400 international units per kilogram of Kinlytic ™ is given at a rate of 90 mL per hour over a period of 10 minutes .
This is followed by a continuous infusion of 4 , 400 international units per kilogram per hour at a rate of 15 mL for 12 hours .
• Administration of Kinlytic ™ may be repeated as necessary .
• A dosing and preparation chart for patients who weigh 37 to 114 kilograms ( 81 to 250 pounds ) is provided as a guide in the Preparation Section that follows below .
If the patient is outside of these weights , calculate with dosing information provided above .
Preparation • The Dose Preparation - Pulmonary Embolism chart is a guidance tool / aid provided for the convenience of the practitioner and may not be complete for every patient .
• Kinlytic ™ contains no preservatives .
Do not reconstitute until immediately before use .
Any unused portion of the reconstituted material should be discarded .
• Reconstitute Kinlytic ™ by aseptically adding 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , without preservatives , to the vial .
DO NOT USE Bacteriostatic Water for Injection , USP .
• After reconstitution , the drug product will contain 50 , 000 international units per milliliter .
• After reconstituting , visually inspect each vial of Kinlytic ™ for discoloration and for the presence of particulate material .
The solution should be pale and straw - colored ; highly colored solutions should not be used .
Thin translucent filaments may occasionally occur in reconstituted Kinlytic ™ vials , but do not indicate any decrease in potency of this product .
To minimize formation of filaments , avoid shaking the vial during reconstitution .
Roll and tilt the vial to enhance reconstitution .
The solution may be terminally filtered , for example , through a 0 . 45 micron or smaller cellulose membrane filter .
• No other medication should be added to this solution .
• Prior to infusing , dilute the reconstituted Kinlytic ™ with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP .
The following Dose Preparation - Pulmonary Embolism chart may be used as an aid in the preparation of Kinlytic ™ for administration .
For administration directions , see next section .
Dose Preparation - Pulmonary Embolism a Loading Dose + dose administered during 12 - hour period .
b Each vial is reconstituted with 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , without preservatives .
( See Preparation . )
Patient Weight [ kilograms ( pounds ) ] Total Dosea ( Loading and Continuous Infusion ) Number of Kinlytic ™ Vials Needed for Total Dose Total Volume of Sterile Water for Injection needed for Reconstitution of Kinlytic ™ Vialsb + Volume of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP for Infusion ( mL ) = Final Volume ( mL ) for Loading and Continuous Infusion 37 - 40 ( 81 - 90 ) 2 , 250 , 000 9 45 150 195 41 - 45 ( 91 - 100 ) 2 , 500 , 000 10 50 145 195 46 - 50 ( 101 - 110 ) 2 , 750 , 000 11 55 140 195 51 - 54 ( 111 - 120 ) 3 , 000 , 000 12 60 135 195 55 - 59 ( 121 - 130 ) 3 , 250 , 000 13 65 130 195 60 - 64 ( 131 - 140 ) 3 , 500 , 000 14 70 125 195 65 - 68 ( 141 - 150 ) 3 , 750 , 000 15 75 120 195 69 - 73 ( 151 - 160 ) 4 , 000 , 000 16 80 115 195 74 - 77 ( 161 - 170 ) 4 , 250 , 000 17 85 110 195 78 - 82 ( 171 - 180 ) 4 , 500 , 000 18 90 105 195 83 - 86 ( 181 - 190 ) 4 , 750 , 000 19 95 100 195 87 - 91 ( 191 - 200 ) 5 , 000 , 000 20 100 95 195 92 - 95 ( 201 - 210 ) 5 , 250 , 000 21 105 90 195 96 - 100 ( 211 - 220 ) 5 , 500 , 000 22 110 85 195 101 - 104 ( 221 - 230 ) 5 , 750 , 000 23 115 80 195 105 - 109 ( 231 - 240 ) 6 , 000 , 000 24 120 75 195 110 - 114 ( 241 - 250 ) 6 , 250 , 000 25 125 70 195 Administration • Kinlytic ™ is administered using a constant infusion pump that is capable of delivering a total volume of 195 mL .
• The loading dose of Kinlytic ™ admixture ( 4 , 400 international units per kilogram ) should be delivered at a rate of 90 mL per hour over a period of 10 minutes .
• This is followed by a continuous infusion of 4 , 400 international units per kilogram per hour of Kinlytic ™ at a rate of 15 mL per hour for 12 hours .
• Since some of the Kinlytic ™ admixture will remain in the tubing at the end of an infusion pump delivery cycle , the following flush procedure should be performed to insure that the total dose of Kinlytic ™ is administered .
A solution of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , or 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP , approximately equal in amount to the volume of the tubing in the infusion set should be administered via the pump to flush the Kinlytic ™ admixture from the entire length of the infusion set .
The pump should be set to administer the flush solution at the continuous rate of 15 mL per hour .
• No other drug products / solutions may be administered in the same line with Kinlytic ™ .
Anticoagulation After Terminating Kinlytic ™ Treatment After infusing Kinlytic ™ , anticoagulation treatment is recommended to prevent recurrent thrombosis .
Do not begin anticoagulation until the aPTT has decreased to less than twice the normal control value .
If heparin is used , do not administer a loading dose of heparin .
Treatment should be followed by oral anticoagulants .
HOW SUPPLIED Kinlytic ™ is supplied as a sterile lyophilized preparation ( NDC 24430 - 1003 - 1 ) .
Each vial contains 250 , 000 international units urokinase activity , 25 mg mannitol , 250 mg Albumin ( Human ) , and 50 mg sodium chloride .
Refrigerate Kinlytic ™ powder at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) ( See USP ) .
REFERENCES • Sato S . et al .
Elevated Urokinase - Type Plasminogen Activator Plasma Levels Are Associated With Deterioration of Liver Function But Not With Hepatocellular Carcinoma .
J Gastroenterology , 1994 ; 29 : 745 - 750 .
• Bell WR .
Thrombolytic Therapy : A Comparison Between Urokinase and Streptokinase .
Sem Thromb Hemost .
1975 ; 2 : 1 - 13 .
• Sasahara AA , Hyers TM , Cole CM , et al .
The Urokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial .
Circulation .
1973 ; 47 ( suppl .
2 ) : 1 - 108 .
• Daniels LB , Parker JA , Patel SR , Grodstein F , Goldhaber SZ .
Relation of Duration of Symptoms With Response to Thrombolytic Therapy in Pulmonary Embolism .
Am J Cardiol .
1997 ; 80 : 184 - 188 .
• Urokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial Study Group : Urokinase - Streptokinase Embolism Trial .
JAMA .
1974 ; 229 : 1606 - 1613 .
• Sasahara AA , Bell WR , Simon TL , et al .
The Phase II Urokinase - Streptokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial .
Thrombos Diathes Haemorrh ( Stuttg ) .
1975 ; 33 : 464 - 476 .
Rx © ImaRx Therapeutics , Inc . 2007 Printed in USA ImaRx Therapeutics , Inc .
Tucson Arizona , 85719 , USA Ref : 80003 V : 01 June 2007
