Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 4 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with the meninges • in the genital area When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the ete or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardurms .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a healthcare provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under two months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms with water • scrub for 3 minutes with 4 full pumps ( 6 grams ) of product and a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and interdigital spaces • a seperate nail cleaner may be used • rinse thoroughly • was for an additional 3 minutes with 4 full pumps ( 6 grams ) of product and rinse under running water • dry thoroughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense 4 full pumps ( 6 grams ) of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigrous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients cocamide DEA , fragrance , glucono - delta - lactone , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , PEG - 75 lanolin , purified water , tridecyl alcohol Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3721 Monday through Friday 8 : 00 AM to 4 : 30 PM CST Compare to the active ingredient in Hibiclens ® * NDC 11822 - 0891 - 2 ANTISEPTIC / ANTIMICROBIAL SKIN CLEANSER CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE 4 % SOLUTION dye free for external use only TAMPER - EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF SHRINK SEAL NECKBAND IS BROKEN OR MISSING 18 FL OZ ( 532 mL ) 4RA18FM1061LBL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
