DESCRIPTION The active component of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol is albuterol , USP racemic α1 - [ ( tert - butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol ) , a relatively selective beta2 - adrenergic bronchodilator , having the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of albuterol is 239 . 3 , and the empirical formula is C13H21NO3 .
Albuterol is a white to off - white crystalline solid .
It is soluble in ethanol , sparingly soluble in water , and very soluble in chloroform .
The World Health Organization recommended name for albuterol base is salbutamol .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol is a pressurized metered - dose aerosol unit for oral inhalation .
It contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol in propellants ( trichloromonofluoromethane and dichlorodifluoromethane ) with oleic acid .
Each actuation delivers 100 mcg albuterol , USP from the valve and 90 mcg of albuterol , USP from the mouthpiece .
Each 17 . 0 g canister provides 200 oral inhalations .
Each 6 . 8 g canister provides 80 oral inhalations .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol should be primed by actuating into air , away from the eyes and face , four times before using for the first time and two times when the aerosol has not been used for a period of at least four days .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The primary action of beta - adrenergic drugs , including albuterol , is to stimulate adenyl cyclase , the enzyme which catalyzes the formation of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) from adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) in beta - adrenergic cells .
The cyclic AMP thus formed mediates the cellular responses .
Increased cyclic AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells , especially from mast cells .
In vitro studies and in vivo pharmacologic studies have demonstrated that albuterol has a preferential effect on beta2 - adrenergic receptors compared with isoproterenol .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors in bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there is a population of beta2 - receptors in the human heart existing in a concentration between 10 % and 50 % .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established .
In controlled clinical trials , albuterol has been shown to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
Controlled clinical studies and other clinical experience have shown that inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or ECG changes .
Albuterol is longer acting than isoproterenol in most patients by any route of administration because it is not a substrate for the cellular uptake processes for catecholamines nor for catechol - O - methyl transferase .
The effects of rising doses of albuterol and isoproterenol aerosols were studied in volunteers and asthmatic patients .
Results in normal volunteers indicated that the propensity for increase in heart rate for albuterol is ½ to ¼ that of isoproterenol .
In asthmatic patients similar cardiovascular differentiation between the two drugs was also seen .
Preclinical Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations that are amounting to approximately 5 . 0 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when beta - agonists and methylxanthines are administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Because of its gradual absorption from the bronchi , systemic levels of albuterol are low after inhalation at recommended doses .
Administration of tritiated albuterol by inhalation to four subjects resulted in maximum plasma concentrations within 2 to 4 hours .
Due to the insensitivity of the assay method , the metabolic rate and half - life of elimination of albuterol in plasma could not be determined .
However , data from urinary excretion studies indicated that albuterol has an elimination half - life of 3 . 8 hours .
Approximately 72 % of the inhaled dose is excreted in the urine within 24 hours , 28 % as unchanged drug and 44 % as metabolite .
Clinical Trials In controlled clinical trials the onset of improvement in pulmonary function was within 15 minutes , as determined by both maximal midexpiratory flow rate ( MMEF ) and FEV1 .
MMEF measurements also showed that near maximum improvement in pulmonary function generally occurs within 60 to 90 minutes , following 2 inhalations of albuterol and that clinically significant improvement generally continues for 3 to 4 hours in most patients .
In clinical trials , some patients with asthma showed a therapeutic response ( defined by maintaining FEV1 values 15 % or more above baseline ) which was still apparent at 6 hours .
Continued effectiveness of albuterol was demonstrated over a 13 - week period in these same trials .
In clinical studies , 2 inhalations of albuterol taken approximately 15 minutes prior to exercise prevented exercise - induced bronchospasm , as demonstrated by the maintenance of FEV1 within 80 % of baseline values in the majority of patients .
One of these studies also evaluated the duration of the prophylactic effect to repeated exercise challenges , which was evident at 4 hours in the majority of patients , and at 6 hours in approximately one third of the patients .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol is indicated in patients 12 years of age and older , for the prevention and relief of bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airway disease , and for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol or any of its components .
WARNINGS Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours , or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and the treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , eg , corticosteroids .
Use of Anti - inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , eg , corticosteroids .
Paradoxical Bronchospasm Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm , which may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister or vial .
Cardiovascular Effects Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , like all other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
PRECAUTIONS General Albuterol , as with all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate pre - existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
As with other beta - agonists , albuterol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
Information For Patients The action of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol may last up to 6 hours or longer .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of doses of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , you should seek medical attention immediately .
While you are using Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by your physician .
Common adverse effects include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
If you are pregnant or nursing , contact your physician about the use of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol .
Effective and safe use of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
See Illustrated Patient ' s Instructions For Use .
The contents of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol are under pressure .
Do not puncture .
Do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw container into fire or incinerator .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Drug Interactions Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with albuterol .
If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route , they should be used with caution to avoid deleterious cardiovascular effects .
Beta Blockers Beta - adrenergic receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , eg , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , cardioselective beta - blockers could be considered , although they should be administered with caution .
Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium - sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with nonpotassium - sparing diuretics .
Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % to 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of this finding for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and albuterol .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants Albuterol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the vascular system may be potentiated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a significant dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 . 0 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1700 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in the Golden Hamster , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 230 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test with or without metabolic activation using tester strains S . typhimurium TA1537 , TA1538 , and TA98 or E . coli WP2 , WP2uvrA , and WP67 .
No forward mutation was seen in yeast strain S . cerevisiae S9 nor any mitotic gene conversion in yeast strain S . cerevisiae JD1 with or without metabolic activation .
Fluctuation assays in S . typhimurium TA98 and E . coli WP2 , both with metabolic activation , were negative .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses of albuterol sulfate up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 340 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Teratogenic Effects — Pregnancy Category C Albuterol sulfate has been shown to be teratogenic in mice .
A study in CD - 1 mice at subcutaneous ( sc ) doses at and above 0 . 25 mg / kg ( approximately equal to the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) , induced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses .
At an sc dose of 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) albuterol sulfate induced cleft palate formation in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation when administered at an sc dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( significantly less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated with 2 . 5 mg / kg isoproterenol ( positive control ) administered subcutaneously .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 ( 37 % ) fetuses when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at a dose of 50 mg / kg ( approximately 680 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Studies in pregnant rats with tritiated albuterol demonstrated that approximately 10 % of the circulating maternal drug is transferred to the fetus .
Disposition in the fetal lungs is comparable to maternal lungs , but fetal liver disposition is 1 % of the maternal liver levels .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , albuterol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients being treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
Because no consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Use in Labor and Delivery — Use in Labor Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
Tocolysis Albuterol has not been approved for the management of preterm labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including maternal pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in some animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions of albuterol are similar in nature to those of other sympathomimetic agents , although the incidence of certain cardiovascular effects is less with albuterol .
Percent Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Patients ≥ 12 Years of Age in a 13 - Week Clinical Trial [ 1 ] ( n = 147 ) Adverse Event Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol Isoproterenol Inhaler Tremor < 15 < 15 Nausea < 15 < 15 Tachycardia 10 10 Palpitations < 10 < 15 Nervousness < 10 < 15 Increased Blood Pressure < 5 < 5 Dizziness < 5 < 5 Heartburn < 5 < 5 [ 1 ] A 13 - week double - blind study compared albuterol and isoproterenol aerosols in 147 asthmatic patients .
Cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , hoarseness , oropharyngeal edema , and arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , and extrasystoles ) have also been reported after the use of inhaled albuterol .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as hypertension , angina , vomiting , vertigo , central nervous system stimulation , insomnia , headache , unusual taste , and drying or irritation of the oropharynx .
OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , eg , angina , hypertension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , and insomnia .
In addition , seizures , hypotension , arrhythmias , fatigue , malaise , and hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic aerosol medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 6800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 3000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In small young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2000 mg / kg ( approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults and children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of asthmatic symptoms The usual dosage for adults and children 12 years of age and older is 2 inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours ; in some patients , 1 inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended .
For maintenance therapy or prevention of exacerbation of bronchospasm , 2 inhalations , 4 times a day should be sufficient .
The use of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol can be continued as medically indicated to control recurring bouts of bronchospasm .
During this time most patients gain optimal benefit from regular use of the inhaler .
Safe usage for periods extending over several years has been documented .
If a previously effective dosage regimen fails to provide the usual response , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , eg , corticosteroids .
Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm Prevention The usual dosage for adults and children 12 years and older is 2 inhalations , 15 minutes prior to exercise .
For treatment , see above .
As with all other inhalation aerosol medications , patients should make sure that the canister is firmly seated in the plastic mouthpiece before each use and the product is primed at specific times .
Patients should prime Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol by actuating into the air , away from the eyes and face , four times before using for the first time and two times when the aerosol has not been used for a period of at least four days .
HOW SUPPLIED Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , 17 . 0 g canister contains 200 metered inhalations , box of one ( NDC 59930 - 1560 - 1 ) .
Each actuation delivers 100 mcg of albuterol from the valve and 90 mcg of albuterol from the mouthpiece .
Each canister is supplied with a white plastic actuator with white dust cap , and Patient ' s Instructions .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol REFILL canister , 17 . 0 g , contains 200 metered inhalations , with Patient ' s Instructions ; box of one ( NDC 59930 - 1560 - 2 ) .
The correct amount of medication in each inhalation cannot be assured after 200 actuations from the 17 . 0 g canister or 80 actuations from the 6 . 8 g canister even though the canister is not completely empty .
The canister should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations have been used .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Failure to use the product within this temperature range may result in improper dosing .
For optimal results , the canister should be at room temperature before use .
Shake well before using .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol canister should be used only with the actuator provided .
The white actuator should not be used with other aerosol medication canisters .
Note : The indented statement below is required by the Federal government ' s Clean Air Act for all products containing or manufactured with chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) .
• WARNING : Contains dichlorodifluoromethane ( CFC - 12 ) and trichloromonofluoromethane ( CFC - 11 ) , substances which harm public health and the environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere .
A notice similar to the above WARNING has been placed in the " Patient ' s Instructions for Use " portion of this package insert under the Environmental Protection Agency ' s ( EPA ' s ) regulations .
The patient ' s warning states that the patient should consult his or her physician if there are questions about alternatives .
Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation Reno , NV 89506 USA Rev . 5 / 04 B - 19529550 2194 Copyright © 1994 , 1999 , Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
All rights reserved .
Albuterol , USP Inhalation Aerosol Patient ' s Instructions For Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 Before using your Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , read complete instructions carefully .
• 1 .
SHAKE THE INHALER WELL immediately before each use .
Then remove the cap from the mouthpiece .
Check mouthpiece for foreign objects prior to use .
Make sure the canister is fully and firmly inserted into the actuator .
The Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol canister should only be used with the white Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol mouthpiece .
This white mouthpiece should not be used with any other inhalation drug product .
Similarly , the canister should not be used with other mouthpieces .
• 2 .
As with all other inhalation aerosol medications , patients should make sure that the canister is firmly seated in the plastic mouthpiece adapter before each use and the product is primed at specific times .
Patients should prime Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol by actuating into the air , away from the eyes and face , four times before using for the first time and two times when the aerosol has not been used for a period of at least four days .
• 3 .
BREATHE OUT FULLY THROUGH THE MOUTH , expelling as much air from your lungs as possible .
Place the mouthpiece fully into the mouth , holding the inhaler in its upright position ( See Figure 1 ) and closing the lips around it .
• 4 .
WHILE BREATHING IN DEEPLY AND SLOWLY THROUGH THE MOUTH , FULLY DEPRESS THE TOP OF THE METAL CANISTER with your index finger .
( See Figure 2 . )
• 5 .
HOLD YOUR BREATH AS LONG AS POSSIBLE .
Before breathing out , remove the inhaler from your mouth and release your finger from the canister .
• 6 .
Wait one minute and SHAKE the inhaler again .
Repeat steps 2 through 4 for each inhalation prescribed by your physician .
• 7 .
CLEANSE THE INHALER THOROUGHLY AND FREQUENTLY .
Remove the metal canister and cleanse the plastic case and cap by rinsing thoroughly in warm running water , at least once a day .
After thoroughly drying the plastic case and cap , gently replace the canister downward into the case without using a twisting motion .
( See Figure 3 . )
Replace the cap .
DOSAGE : Use only as directed by your physician .
The correct amount of medication in each inhalation cannot be assured after 200 actuations from the 17 . 0 g canister or 80 actuations from the 6 . 8 g canister even though the canister is not completely empty .
The canister should be discarded when the labeled number of actuations have been used .
Before you reach the specified number of actuations , you should consult your physician to determine whether a refill is needed .
Just as you should not take extra doses without consulting your physician , you also should not stop using Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
WARNINGS : The action of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol may last up to 6 hours or longer .
Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol should not be used more frequently than recommended .
Do not increase the dose or frequency of Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol without consulting your physician .
If you find that treatment with Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , your symptoms become worse , and / or you need to use the product more frequently than usual , you should seek immediate medical attention .
While taking Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol , other asthma drugs and inhaled medicines should be used only as prescribed by your physician .
Contents Under Pressure .
Do not puncture .
Do not store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw container into fire or incinerator .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Failure to use the product within this temperature range may result in improper dosing .
Shake well before using .
For optimal results , the canister should be at room temperature before use .
Note : The indented statement below is required by the Federal government ' s Clean Air Act for all products containing or manufactured with chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) .
• This product contains dichlorodifluoromethane ( CFC - 12 ) and trichloromonofluoromethane ( CFC - 11 ) , substances which harm the environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere .
Your physician has determined that this product is likely to help your personal health .
USE THIS PRODUCT AS DIRECTED , UNLESS INSTRUCTED TO DO OTHERWISE BY YOUR PHYSICIAN .
If you have any questions about alternatives , consult with your physician .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation Reno , NV 89506 USA Copyright © 1994 , 1999 , Warrick Pharmaceuticals Corporation .
All rights reserved .
19529550 Rev . 5 / 04
