Active ingredients Glycerin .... 0 . 2 % Hypromellose ..... 0 . 36 % Polyethylene glycol 400 ..... 1 % Tetrahydrozoline HCl ..... 0 . 05 % Zinc sulfate 0 . 25 % Purposes Glycerin .... Lubricant Hypromellose ..... Lubricant Polyethylene glycol 400 ..... Lubricant Tetrahydrozoline HCl ..... Redness reliever Zinc sulfate ..... Astringent Uses • for temporary relief of discomfort and redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations • relieves dryness of the eye • for temporary relief of burning and irritation due to exposure to wind or sun • for protection against further irritation Uses • for temporary relief of discomfort and redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations • relieves dryness of the eye • for temporary relief of burning and irritation due to exposure to wind or sun • for protection against further irritation Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have narrow angle glaucoma When using this product • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • overuse may cause more eye redness • remove contact lenses before using • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • replace cap after using • do not use if this solution changes color or becomes cloudy Stop use and ask a doctor if • you feel eye pain • changes in vision occur • redness or irritation of the eye lasts • condition worsens or lasts more than 72 hours If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to 4 times daily • children under 6 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • some users may experience a brief tingling sensation • store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) Inactive ingredients • benzalkonium chloride , boric acid , edetate disodium , purified water , sodium chloride , sodium citrate Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 527 - 4276 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
