Rose Extract , Rosa Canina Fruit Oil , Paeonia Lactiflora Bark / Sap Extract , Leontopodium Alpinum extract , Adenosine , Niacinamide Water Glycerin PEG / PPG - 18 / 4 Copolymer Butylene glycol Glyceryl polyacrylate Dipropylene Glycol 1 , 2 - Hexanediol Betaine Raffinose Inositol Sodium Hyaluronate Histidine Glutamine Lysine Cysteine Caprylyl Glycol PPG - 26 - Buteth - 26 PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil osa Canina Fruit Oil Acanthopanax Senticosus ( Eleuthero ) Root Extract Punica Granatum Fruit Extract Panax Ginseng Root Extract Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Flower Extract Propylene Glycol Red ginseng extract Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer Arginine Cyclomethicone Allantoin Hyssopus Officinalis Extract Myrciaria Dubia Fruit Extract Malpighia Emarginata ( Acerola ) Fruit Extract Chrysanthemum Indicum Flower Extract Leontopodium alpinum extract Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract Lilium Tigrinum Extract Malva Sylvestris ( Mallow ) Flower Extract Thymus Vulgaris ( Thyme ) Extract Phenoxy ethanol Disodium EDTA Ethylhexylglycerin Adenosine Parfum - Anti - aging & brightening toner A U - shape clear essence toner enables the skin to become nutritious .
Rose extracts , rose hips oil and other 14 kinds of natural extracts make the dehydrated skin to become moist , bright , smooth and more vital .
Skin can absorb the toner without leaving stickiness and the toner gives a energy to skin instantly .
Also , the delicate rose - scented gives elegant and classy feelings .
It is a toner which strengthens the autogenic power of skin .
keep out of reach of the children 1 .
After cleansing , wet a cotton pad with enough toner and apply it on your face .
2 .
Apply it softly from the center part of your face to the outer part along the skin texture .
3 .
Pat your face to be absorbed completely .
For external use only When using this product ■ if the following symptoms occurs after use , stop use and consult with a skin specialist red specks , swelling , itching ■ don ’ t use on the part where there is injury , eczema , or dermatitis Keep out of reach of children ■ if swallowed , get medical help or contact a person control center immediately [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
