Active ingredient Potassium nitrate 5 % ** Sodium fluoride 0 . 25 % ( 0 . 16 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purposes Antihypersensitivity , Anticavity Uses • • builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets or contact .
• • aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Warnings Stop use and ask a dentist if • • the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist .
• • pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years of age and older : • • apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
• • brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
Other information • • Do not store above 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients ( Advanced Whitening ) water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , pentasodium triphosphate PEG - 8 , alumina , flavor , titanium dioxide , sodium methyl cocoyl taurate , cocamidopropyl betaine , xanthan gum , sodium hydroxide , sodium saccharin , sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 866 - 844 - 2797 Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0479 - 01 SENSODYNE Advanced Whitening Maximum Strength ** with Fluoride ** maximum FDA sensitivity active ingredient TOOTHPASTE FOR SENSITIVE TEETH AND CAVITY PREVENTION NET WT 6 . 5 OZ ( 184 g ) 9 OUT OF 10 DENTISTS ’ RECOMMENDED BRAND # 1 Dentist Recommended Brand for Sensitive Teeth Dentists have been recommending Sensodyne for many years .
Sensodyne Advanced Whitening is a fluoride toothpaste .
It can be used everyday and provides daily care for sensitive teeth .
Sensodyne is specially formulated to relieve tooth sensitivity .
When enamel is worn away or gums recede , the dentin underneath becomes exposed .
This can lead to tooth sensitivity pain , for example , with hot and cold food and drinks .
24 / 7 SENSITIVITY PROTECTION * 24 hr protection * BEFORE : Sensitivity starts with exposed dentin .
Sensitive teeth need special care .
AFTER : Sensodyne Advanced Whitening works inside the tooth to help calm the nerves for 24 hr sensitivity protection .
* * with twice daily brushing ADVANCED WHITENING Use Sensodyne Advanced Whitening twice daily : • • Long lasting sensitivity protection • • Helps bring back the natural whiteness of your teeth • • Helps to remove stains for whiter teeth • • Provides the benefits of a regular toothpaste This product contains no sugar .
ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2020 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 62000000050449 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
