This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Hand sanitizer to help decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • If hands are visibly soiled , was with soap and water then dry hands .
• Wet hands thoroughly with product , especially under the fingernails and allow to dry without rinsing • Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , PEG - 6 , AMP - Acrylates / Vinyl Isodecanoate crosspolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Fragrance ( Parfum ) .
Star - San Hand Sanitizer DESCRIPTION KILLS GERMS FAST LEAVES HANDS SMOOTH & REFRESHED This one step sanitizer kills 99 . 9 % of most disease - causing germs within 15 seconds .
Use as frequently as wanted and between normal hand washing .
STAR - SAN contains skin conditioners which leaves hands refreshed and sanitized .
STAR - SAN reduces the risk of cross infection without having to use soap and water .
DIRECTIONS If hands are visibly soiled , wash with soap and water then dry hands .
Wet hands thoroughly with product , especially under the fingernails and allow to dry without rinsing .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
STAR - SAN ™ GEL INSTANT HAND SANITIZER USE WITHOUT WATER NEW & IMPROVED KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN MANTÉNGASE ALEJADO DEL ALCANCE DE LOS NIÑOS NET CONTENTS : 1 GALLON DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient … … … ... Purpose Ethyl alcohol 70 % v / v … Antimicrobial USE Hand sanitizer to help decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes , In case of contact rinse eye thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Information Store below 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces Inactive Ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , PEG - 6 , AMP - Acrylates / Vinyl Isodecanoate crosspolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Fragrance ( Parfum ) .
Starco ® Chemical Union Ave & DuBois Street East Rutherford , NJ 07073 • ( 201 ) 935 - 4300 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
