DESCRIPTION The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and anti - pruritic agents .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a member of this class .
Hydrocortisone acetate has a molecular formula of C23H32O6 , and its molecular weight of 404 . 50 .
The CAS registry number is 50 - 03 - 3 .
The chemical name is Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - , ( 11 P ) - and the chemical structural formula is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MiCort - HC Lipocream 2 % is a topical preparation containing hydrocortisone acetate 2 % w / w in a water washable cream containing the following inactive ingredients : cetostearyl alcohol , ceteth 20 , light mineral oil , white petrolatum , propylparaben , butylparaben , citric acid , sodium citrate , and purified water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , anti - pruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressing substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressing may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for the treatment of resistant dermatoses .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Topical corticosteroids are indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroid and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use ) If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the Infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
2 .
Patients should be advised not to used this medication for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions especially under occlusive dressing .
5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garment may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating the HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically are relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic cffects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged period of time .
Nursing Mothers It is not know whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids in children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressing .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions hypopigmentation , period dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Topical corticosteroids are generally applied to the affected areas as a thin film two to four times daily depending on the severity of the condition .
Occlusive dressing may be used for the management of psoriasis or recalcitrant conditions .
If an infection develops , the used of occlusive dressings should be discontinued and appropriate antimicrobial therapy instituted .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 oz ( 28 . 4 g ) tubes ( NDC 0496 - 0834 - 04 ) Store at 25 째 C ( 77 째 F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 째 C ( 59 - 86 째 F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep tube closed when not in use .
Revised : 11 / 07 Manufactured by : Ferndale Laboratories , Inc .
Ferndale MI 48220 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
