Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Uses • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxatives may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions for laxative • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor inactive ingredients none Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Questions 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 meijer Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Directions : Dissolve 2 cups of this product per galon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day , or use as a soak or i a bath .
Use warm water for best results CAUTION : If prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Hot or warms soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physican .
Epsom Salt is trusted remedy that is useful every season of the year .
BEAT WINTER BLUES Simply dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt in a warm bath to provide soothing relief from stress stiffness A MINERAL SPRING SPA Spring is your fresh start to working out and physical activity , often leading to overexertion .
Just dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt into warm bath water , settle in , and experience the relief and relaxation FIRST AID SUMMER SLAT Dissolve two cups of MeijerEpsom Salt in two cups of warm water to make a compress .
Apply as a wet dressing towel to provide soothing relief from overexertion from sports .
Dissolve two cups of Meijer Salt into a gallon of water to make a foot soak to relieve and soothe tired feet .
RELAX INTO AUTUMN Dissolve two cups of Meijer Epsom Salt into a gallon of war water .
This will soak away tiredness , soreness and help soothe away stress .
DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , iNC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com MEIJER PHARMACISTS RECOMMENDED MONEY BACK GUARANTEE principal panel display Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
Resealable Pouch TAMPER EVIDENT PACKAGING .
Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mutilated .
meijer Epsom Salt Magnesium Sulfate U . S . P . Saline Laxative - Soaking Aid For Relief of Occasional Constipation For minor Sprains and Bruises NET WT 4 LB ( 1 . 81 kg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
