Active ingredient Sodium hypochlorite Inactive ingredient Water Purpose Disinfection for environment ; Lasting protection .
High efficiency sterilization ; Inhibition of bacterial regeneration .
For disinfection of clothing , dinnerware , fruits and vegetables .
When using Disinfection for environment ; Lasting protection .
High efficiency sterilization ; Inhibition of bacterial regeneration .
For disinfection of clothing , dinnerware , fruits and vegetables .
Do not use Use only as directed .
Do not use for cases not directed .
Stop use Stop use if the product ' s volatile gases cause discomfort , or if you experience respiratory irritation such as cough , asthma , or difficulty breathing .
Ask doctor If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor .
Ask doctor / pharmacist If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor / pharmacist .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Questions Please contact with us at the phone number + 86 - 10 - 61238999 when you have any questions .
Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage 1 , For disinfection of general object surfaces , dilute this product with water at a ratio of 1 : 100 to prepare a diluent with sodium hypochlorite content of 400 mg / L , wipe it with the diluent for 20 minutes .
2 , For disinfection of contaminated object surfaces of infectious patients , dilute this product with water at a ratio of 1 : 6 . 5 to prepare a diluent with sodium hypochlorite content of 6000 mg / L , soak it in the diluent for 60 minutes .
3 , For disinfectant of fruits and vegetables , dilute this product with water at a ration of 1 : 400 to prepare a diluent with sodium hypochlorite content of 100 mg / L , soak it in the diluent for 10 minutes and rinse with clean water .
4 , For disinfection of the tableware , dilute this product with water at a ratio of 1 : 100 to prepare a diluent with sodium hypochlorite content of 400 mg / L , soak it with the diluent for 20 minutes and rinse with clean water .
5 , For disinfection of the fabric , dilute this product with water at a ratio of 1 : 100 to prepare a diluent with sodium hypochlorite content of 400 mg / L , soak it with the diluent for 20 minutes and rinse with clean water .
Dosage & administration Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Dosage forms & strengths This product is liquid dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 50 % .
Warnings * The product is for external use , can not be drunk .
* The product may corrode the metal and make the cotton fabric washed - out .
Careful use !
* The product is forbidden to use in wool , flax and silk fabric .
* The product should be distant from light and make sure it be cool and dry .
* The product is forbidden to contact the acid detergent , eg , clean agent .
* The product is forbidden to invert .
* Keep out of reach of children .
* When the product contact eyes or skin , please wash it quickly use clean water , if any dis comfortable , go to the doctor .
* The product is forbidden to change the container , preventing the misuse .
Package label .
Principal display panel Drum Label - Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Box Label - Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
