DESCRIPTION MAXIDEX ® 0 . 1 % ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is an adrenocortical steroid prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic suspension .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains Active : dexamethasone 0 . 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Vehicle : hypromellose 0 . 5 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , dibasic sodium phosphate , polysorbate 80 , edetate disodium , citric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Dexamethasone suppresses the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and it probably delays or slows healing .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe such as allergic conjunctivitis , acne rosacea , superficial punctuate keratitis , herpes zoster keratitis , iritis , cyclitis , selected infective conjunctivitides when the inherent hazard of steroid use is accepted to obtain an advisable diminution in edema and inflammation ; corneal injury from chemical , radiation , or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in epithelial herpes simplex ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and most other viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva ; tuberculosis of the eye ; fungal disease of ocular structures ; and in those persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS Prolonged use may result in ocular hypertension and / or glaucoma , with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may suppress the host response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforations have been known to occur with the use of topical corticosteroids .
In acute purulent conditions of the eye , corticosteroids may mask infection or enhance existing infection .
If these products are used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Employment of corticosteroid medication in the treatment of herpes simplex other than epithelial herpes simplex keratitis , in which it is contraindicated , requires great caution ; periodic slit - lamp microscopy is essential .
PRECAUTIONS General FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
The possibility of persistent fungal infections of the cornea should be considered after prolonged corticosteroid dosing .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the contents .
The preservative in MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) should not be administered while wearing soft contact lenses .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of MAXIDEX ® dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects ; cataract formation ; secondary ocular infection following suppression of host response ; and perforation of the globe may occur .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
One or two drops topically in the conjunctival sac ( s ) .
In severe disease , drops may be used hourly , being tapered to discontinuation as the inflammation subsides .
In mild disease , drops may be used up to four to six times daily .
HOW SUPPLIED MAXIDEX ® ( dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension ) in plastic DROP - TAINER ® dispensers : 5 mL NDC 0998 - 0615 - 05 15 mL NDC 0998 - 0615 - 15 STORAGE Store upright at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
Rx Only © 2003 Alcon , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Printed in USA 340907 - 0803 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
