Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 1 tablet every 6 - 8 hours .
Children under 12 years of age : Consult a physician .
Other information Store at 15 o - 30 oC ( 59 o - 86 oF ) .
Capron DMT is a white , round tablet , debossed with " DMT " on one side and blank of the other side .
Supplied in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant cap .
Active ingredients ( in each tablet ) Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Pyrilamine Maleate 30 mg Purposes Antitussive Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • runny nose • itchy watery eyes • itching of the nose and throat • relief of cough Do not exceed recommended dosage .
• May cause drowsiness ; alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect .
Avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this product .
Do not take this product if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers , without first consulting your doctor .
Use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Do not use this product • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • heart disease • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to enlargement of the prostate gland Stop use and ask doctor if • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Inactive ingredients Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Silicon Dioxide .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Serious side effects may be reported to this number .
Call 1 ( 614 ) 638 - 4622 .
Manufactured for : Capital Pharma Powell , OH 43065 Rev . 09 / 16 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
