Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • surgical hand scrub : significantly reduces the number of microorganisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care • healthcare personnel handwash : helps reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • patient preoperative skin preparation : for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery • skin wound and general skin cleansing Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with meninges • in the genital area • as a preoperative skin preparation of the head or face When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear throuogh perforated eardrums .
• if solution should contact these areas , rinse out promptly and thoroughly with water • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general skin cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
Surgical hand scrub : • wet hands and forearms under running water for 30 seconds .
Clean fingernails using a nailstick or similar cleaner .
• scrub for 1 . 5 minutes with about 8 mL of product with or without a wet brush paying close attention to the nails , cuticles , and skin between the fingers • rinse thoroughly under running water for 30 seconds • wash for an additional 1 . 5 minutes with 8 mL of product and rinse under running water for 30 seconds • dry throughly Healthcare personnel handwash : • wet hands with water • dispense about 5 mL of product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds • rinse and dry thoroughly Patient preoperative skin preparation : • apply product liberally to surgical site and swab for at least 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel • repeat procedure for an additional 2 minutes and dry with a sterile towel Skin wound and general skin cleansing : • thoroughly rinse the area to be cleaned with water • apply the minimum amount of product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently • rinse again thoroughly Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , cocamide DEA , hydroxyethylcellulose , isopropyl alcohol , lauramine oxide , purified water Laudering / Cleaning Instructions : Chlorhexidine gluconate skin cleansers will cause stains if used with chlorine releasing products , such as chlorine bleach .
Rinse completely and use only non - chlorine detertgents .
WARNING : This product can expose you to chemicals including cocamide DEA , which is known to the State of California to cause cancer .
For more information , go to www . P65Warnings . ca . gov For Professional and Hospital Use You may report serious side effects to 1 - 877 - 227 - 3462 Not Made with Natural Rubber Latex Distributed by Cardinal Health Waukegan , IL 60085 USA Rev . D 2019 - 06 • cardinalhealth . com © 2019 Cardinal Health .
All Rights Reserved .
CARDINAL HEALTH and the Cardinal Health LOGO are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and / or in other countries Indications and Usage Dosage and Administration Package Label NDC : 0116 - 0113 - 04 REF AS - 2CHGL4 Cardinal Health Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Single Use Antiseptic Non Sterile Solution cardinalhealth . com / symbolsglossary Distributed by : Cardinal Health Waukegan , IL 60085 USA Rev . D 2019 - 06 • cardinalhealth . com © 2019 Cardinal Health .
All Rights Reserved .
CARDINAL HEALTH and the Cardinal Health LOGO are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and / or in other countries .
4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) 2CHA04BTLLBLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 0116 - 0113 - 08 REF AS - 2CHGL8 Cardinal Health Chlorhexidine Gluconate 2 % Solution Antiseptic 8 fl oz ( 237 mL ) 2CHA08BTLLBLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
