Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid , 2 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses • For the treatment of acne • Reduces the number of acne pimples • Allows skin to heal • Penetrates pores to clear most acne blemishes • Dries up acne pimples • Helps keep skin clear of new acne blemishes , acne pimples , whiteheads and blackheads Warnings For external use only When using this product , skin irritation and dryness may occur if you use other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product .
If this occurs , use only one medication at a time unless directed by a doctor .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets in eyes , rinse with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if excessive skin irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally over wet skin with a clean wash cloth or body puff , concentrating on areas prone to acne .
• Rinse thoroughly and pat dry with a clean towel .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to every other day .
Other information • Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Sodium palmate , Sodium cocoate and / or Sodium palm kernelate , Water , Glycerin , Sodium chloride , Sulfur , Fragrance , Sodium hydroxide , Tetrasodium EDTA , Pentasodium pentetate , Glycolic acid , Titanium dioxide , Salix alba ( White Willow ) bark extract , BHT , FD & C Yellow 5 , Citric Acid , Disodium EDTA , Opuntia Ficus - Indica ( Cactus ) stem extract , FD & C Yellow 6 , Iron Oxide For more product information , please call Toll Free : 1 877 99 GENOM ( 43666 ) Distributed by : Genomma Lab USA Inc . , Houston , TX 77027 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 113 g Bar Carton NEW FORMULA OILY SKIN WITH IMPERFECTIONS Asepxia ® WITH HYDRO - FORCE ™ Acne Bar Soap Oil - Free DEEP CLEANSING ANTI - SEBUM 2 % Salicylic Acid Enriched with a touch of sulfur * > Oil skin control > Deeply cleans and exfoliates without overdrying Net Wt .
4 oz ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
