CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR I . V . USE 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Rx only 50 mEq / 20 mL or 100 mEq / 40 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) Additive Solution Concentrated Solution — For use only after dilution with compatible I . V . fluids to correct sodium deficiency when oral replacement is not feasible .
Plastic Vial DESCRIPTION 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution for intravenous administration ONLY AFTER DILUTION to replenish electrolytes .
The preparations contain either 2 . 92 or 5 . 84 g of sodium chloride ( 50 or 100 mEq each of Na + and Cl ¯ ) in Water for Injection , USP .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ; pH 4 . 8 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The osmolar concentration is 5 mOsmol / mL ( calc . )
; specific gravity is 1 . 10 .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline compound freely soluble in water .
The semi - rigid material used for the plastic vials is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) ions .
These ions are normal constituents of the body fluids ( principally extracellular ) and are essential for maintaining electrolyte balance .
Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of the total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 142 mEq / liter .
While the sodium ion can diffuse across cell membranes , intracellular sodium is maintained at a much lower concentration than extracellular sodium through the expenditure of energy by the cell ( so called " sodium cation pump " ) .
Loss of intracellular potassium ion is usually accompanied by an increase in intracellular sodium ion .
When serum sodium concentration is low , the secretion of antidiuretic hormone ( ADH ) by the pituitary is inhibited , thereby preventing water reabsorption by the distal renal tubules .
On the other hand , adrenal secretion of aldosterone increases renal tubular reabsorption of sodium in an effort to re - establish normal serum sodium concentration .
Chloride ( Cl ¯ ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl ¯ ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is indicated for parenteral restoration of sodium ion in patients with restricted oral intake .
Sodium replacement is specifically indicated in patients with hyponatremia or low salt syndrome .
14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Additive Solution may also be added to compatible carbohydrate solutions such as dextrose in water to provide electrolytes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is hypertonic and must be diluted prior to administration .
Inadvertent direct injection or absorption of concentrated sodium chloride solution may give rise to sudden hypernatremia and such complications as cardiovascular shock , central nervous system disorders , extensive hemolysis , cortical necrosis of the kidneys and severe local tissue necrosis ( if administered extravascularly ) .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium may result in sodium retention .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution must be diluted before infusion to avoid a sudden increase in the level of plasma sodium .
Too rapid administration should be avoided .
Special caution should be used in administering sodium containing solutions to patients with severe renal impairment , cirrhosis of the liver , cardiac failure , or other edematous or sodium - retaining states .
Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Do not use unless the solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium chloride .
It is also not known whether sodium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Geriatric Use An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium - containing solutions .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is administered intravenously only after addition to a larger volume of fluid .
The dose , dilution and rate of injection are dependent upon the individual needs of each patient .
All or part of the contents of one or more additive containers may be added to an intravenous solution container .
Concentrations of up to 5 % sodium chloride have been administered .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
HOW SUPPLIED 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Additive Solution is supplied as the following : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 0409 - 6657 - 73 Tray of 25 50 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6657 - 01 20 mL Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vial NDC 0409 - 6660 - 75 Tray of 25 100 mEq / 40 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) NDC 0409 - 6660 - 01 40 mL Single - dose Plastic Fliptop Vial Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1099 - 1 . 0 9 / 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Label 20 mL Single - dose CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 50 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Tray CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
20 mL Single - dose NDC 0409 - 6657 - 73 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6657 - 01 Rx only 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 50 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mL Vial Label 40 mL Single - dose CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 100 mEq / 40 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mL Vial Tray CONCENTRATE CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE .
40 mL Single - dose NDC 0409 - 6660 - 75 Contains 25 of NDC 0409 - 6660 - 01 Rx only 14 . 6 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 100 mEq / 40 mL ( 2 . 5 mEq / mL ) Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
