ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate 30 . 0 % , Cocamidopropyl Betaine 8 . 0 % , Glycerin 2 . 5 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Polyquaternium - 10 , Dimethicone , Panthenol , Menthol , Malt Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Benzoate , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Oil , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Symphytum Officinale Leaf Extract , Urtica Dioica ( Nettle ) Extract , Tocopheryl Acetate , Sorbic Acid , Sophora Angustifolia Root Extract , Eclipta Prostrata Extract , Panax Ginseng Root Extract , Lycium Chinense Fruit Extract , Polygonum Multiflorum Root Extract , Disodium EDTA , Paeonia Albiflora Root Extract , Acorus Gramineus Root / Stem Extract , Thuja Orientalis Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Citrus Unshiu Peel Extract , Chaenomeles Sinensis Fruit Extract , Methylisothiazolinone , Laminaria Japonica Extract , Rehmannia Chinensis Root Extract , Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Zingiber Officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extract , Perilla Frutescens Leaf Extract , Pinus Palustris Leaf Extract , Methylchloroisothiazolinone .
PURPOSE Purpose : Shampoo ( cleaning hair and scalp ) WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Discontinue to use this production if the below symptoms occure in use : Damage on the skin or scalp such as mucosa , scar or eczema .
2 .
In case of having following symptoms , consult the medical specialist before use .
In case of having allergy ( like red rash , swollenness , itching , dermatitis ) caused by drug or cosmetics .
3 .
Immediately stop using and consult the medical specialist for below cases .
( Consult with this affixation , if possible . )
( a ) In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching stimulation during usage ( b ) In case of having pruritis or pain .
4 .
Others caution in usage .
( a ) External use only .
( Internal use forbidden . )
( b ) Be careful not to get it into your eyes and in case you have to wash it immediately and consult the medical specialist if the symptom gets worse .
( c ) Be careful of overuse so that the scalp could not lose its oil and it gets roughen .
5 .
Caution in storage ( a ) Protect from light and heat .
Store in the shade .
( b ) Keep out of reach of children .
( c ) Causing accident or degradation from keeping in the different containers from the oriinal container , keep in the designated container with airtight lid .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications and usage : 1 .
Better to wash in the evening to get rid of foreign substances on the scalp accumulated during the day .
2 .
A through wash is required .
3 .
Dry in a mild - warm air 4 .
Wash face and / or shave with bubbles left on hair for 1 to 2 minutes before washing out .
5 .
Do not use rinse products while using O shampoo 6 .
Taking half - bath with bubbles on the hair makes you feel fresh .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage and administration : Use an adequate amount of this product Suggested use is once a day .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
