1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MACRILEN is indicated for the diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency ( AGHD ) .
MACRILEN is a growth hormone ( GH ) secretagogue receptor agonist indicated for the diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use : The safety and diagnostic performance has not been established for subjects with BMI > 40 kg / m2 ( 1 ) .
Limitations of Use The safety and diagnostic performance of MACRILEN have not been established for subjects with a body mass index ( BMI ) > 40 kg / m2 .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended dose is 0 . 5 mg / kg as a single oral dose , after fasting for at least 8 hours ( 2 . 1 ) .
• • See Full Prescribing Information for important preparation and administration instructions ( 2 . 3 ) .
• • Discontinue therapy with strong CYP3A4 inducers , growth hormones and drugs that affect GH release for an adequate length of time before administering MACRILEN ( 2 . 2 ) .
• • Adequately replace other hormone deficiencies before administering MACRILEN ( 2 . 2 ) .
2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose is a single oral dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg of macimorelin .
The dose is administered as a reconstituted solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] in patients fasted for at least 8 hours .
2 . 2 Important Recommendations Before MACRILEN Use • • Discontinue strong CYP3A4 inducers prior to MACRILEN use [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• • Discontinue growth hormone ( GH ) therapy at least one week before administering MACRILEN [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• • Avoid the use of MACRILEN with drugs known to affect pituitary GH secretion [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• • For patients with deficiencies in sex hormones , thyroid hormone and / or glucocorticoid , adequately replace each of the missing hormones before administering MACRILEN .
• • Ensure that the patient has fasted for at least 8 hours before MACRILEN use .
2 . 3 Directions for Preparation and Administration Prepare and administer by a healthcare professional exactly as follows .
Prepare the MACRILEN solution : • a . Weigh the patient in kilograms ( i . e . , kg ) .
• b . Determine the number of MACRILEN pouches needed to prepare the dose : • i . For a patient weighing up to 120 kg , use 1 pouch .
• ii .
For a patient weighing more than 120 kg , use 2 pouches .
• c . Use a glass or transparent plastic container with graduation in milliliters ( i . e . , mL ) to dissolve the entire contents of the pouch ( es ) in the appropriate volume of water .
• i . For 1 pouch dissolve in 120 mL of water ( corresponds to 60 mg / 120 mL ) .
• ii .
For 2 pouches dissolve in 240 mL of water ( corresponds to 120 mg / 240 mL ) .
• d . Stir the MACRILEN solution gently for about 2 to 3 minutes ( a small amount of un - dissolved particles will remain ) .
The solution will have a final concentration of 0 . 5 mg / mL .
• e . Use the MACRILEN solution within 30 minutes after preparation .
• f . Discard any unused MACRILEN solution .
Determine the volume of MACRILEN solution needed for the test : • g . Determine the recommended dose to be administered by multiplying the patient weight in kilogram by 0 . 5 mg / kg .
For example , a 70 kg patient will need a 35 mg dose .
• h . Determine the volume of prepared MACRILEN solution to be administered by dividing the recommended dose by 0 . 5 mg / mL .
For example , a patient requiring a dose of 35 mg will need 70 mL of reconstituted MACRILEN solution .
• i . Use a syringe ( without a needle ) with graduations in mL to measure the exact volume of MACRILEN solution to be administered and transfer the required volume of MACRILEN solution into a drinking glass .
Administer the MACRILEN solution and perform the test : • j . Have the patient being tested drink the entire volume of MACRILEN solution in the drinking glass ( i . e . , the dose ) within 30 seconds .
• k . Observe the patient being tested per routine for the duration of the test .
• l . Draw venous blood samples for GH determination at 30 minutes , 45 minutes , 60 minutes and 90 minutes after administration of MACRILEN .
• m . Prepare serum samples and send to a laboratory for growth hormone determinations .
2 . 4 Interpretation of MACRILEN Test Results Clinical studies have established that a maximally stimulated serum GH level of less than 2 . 8 ng / mL ( i . e . , at the 30 , 45 , 60 and 90 minute timepoints ) following MACRILEN administration confirms the presence of adult growth hormone deficiency .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral solution : 60 mg white to off - white granules in a pouch for reconstitution in 120 mL of water , resulting in a solution of 0 . 5 mg / mL of macimorelin .
For oral solution : 60 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • QT Prolongation : QT prolongation can lead to development of torsade de pointes - type ventricular tachycardia .
Avoid the concomitant use of MACRILEN with drugs that are known to prolong QT interval ( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) .
• • Potential for False Positive Test Results with Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers : Discontinue and washout strong CYP3A4 inducers before testing ( 5 . 2 , 7 . 2 ) .
• • Potential for False Negative Test Results in Recent Onset Hypothalamic Disease : Consider repeat testing if indicated ( 5 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 QT Prolongation MACRILEN causes an increase of about 11 msec in the corrected QT ( QTc ) interval [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
QT prolongation can lead to development of torsade de pointes - type ventricular tachycardia with the risk increasing as the degree of prolongation increases .
The concomitant use of MACRILEN with drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval should be avoided [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Potential for False Positive Test Results with Use of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers with MACRILEN can decrease macimorelin plasma levels significantly and thereby lead to a false positive result [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Strong CYP3A4 inducers should be discontinued and enough time should be given to allow washout of CYP3A4 inducers prior to test administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Potential for False Negative Test Results in Recent Onset Hypothalamic Disease Adult growth hormone ( GH ) deficiency caused by a hypothalamic lesion may not be detected early in the disease process .
Macimorelin acts downstream from the hypothalamus and macimorelin stimulated release of stored GH reserves from the anterior pituitary could produce a false negative result early when the lesion involves the hypothalamus .
Repeat testing may be warranted in this situation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions were dysgeusia , dizziness , headache , fatigue , nausea , hunger , diarrhea , upper respiratory tract infection , feeling hot , hyperhidrosis , nasopharyngitis , and sinus bradycardia ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Strongbridge Biopharma at 1 - 855 - 324 - 8912 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trial of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data in Table 1 are derived from an open - label , randomized , cross - over study that compared the diagnostic performance of MACRILEN to the insulin tolerance test ( ITT ) for the diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
A total of 154 subjects with a high to low pre - test probability of having adult growth hormone deficiency received a single oral dose of 0 . 5 mg / kg MACRILEN .
Out of 154 subjects , 58 % were male , 42 % female , and 86 % of white origin .
Median values were for age 41 years ( range : 18 – 66 years ) and body mass index was 27 . 5 kg / m2 ( range : 16 – 40 kg / m2 ) .
Common adverse reactions presented in Table 1 were adverse reactions that were not present at baseline and occurred during MACRILEN dosing in at least two individuals .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions Reported in at Least Two Individuals Dosed with MACRILEN in an Open - Label Study Number of Subjects ( n = 154 ) Proportion of Subjects ( % ) Dysgeusia 7 4 . 5 Dizziness 6 3 . 9 Headache 6 3 . 9 Fatigue 6 3 . 9 Nausea 5 3 . 2 Hunger 5 3 . 2 Diarrhea 3 1 . 9 Upper respiratory tract infection 3 1 . 9 Feeling hot 2 1 . 3 Hyperhidrosis 2 1 . 3 Nasopharyngitis 2 1 . 3 Sinus bradycardia 2 1 . 3 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs that Prolong QT Interval Co - administration of MACRILEN with drugs that prolong the QT interval ( such as antipsychotic medications ( e . g . , chlorpromazine , haloperidol , thioridazine , ziprasidone ) , antibiotics ( e . g . , moxifloxacin ) , Class 1 A ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) and Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) antiarrhythmic medications or any other medications known to prolong the QT interval ) may lead to development of torsade de pointes - type ventricular tachycardia .
Avoid concomitant use of MACRILEN with drugs that prolong the QT interval .
Sufficient washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 2 Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 Inducers Co - administration of a strong CYP3A4 inducer with MACRILEN ( e . g . , carbamazepine , enzalutamide , mitotane , phenytoin , rifampin , St . John ' s wort , bosentan , efavirenz , etravirine , modafinil , armodafinil , rufinamide ) may reduce the plasma macimorelin concentrations and may lead to false positive test results .
Discontinue strong CYP3A4 inducers prior to MACRILEN use .
Sufficient washout time of strong CYP3A4 inducers prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 3 Drugs Affecting Growth Hormone Release The following drugs may impact the accuracy of the MACRILEN diagnostic test .
Avoid concomitant use of MACRILEN with the following [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] : • • Drugs that directly affect the pituitary secretion of growth hormone ( such as somatostatin , insulin , glucocorticoids , and cyclooxygenase inhibitors such as aspirin or indomethacin ) .
• • Drugs that may transiently elevate growth hormone concentrations ( such as clonidine , levodopa , and insulin ) .
• • Drugs that may blunt the growth hormone response to MACRILEN ( such as muscarinic antagonists : atropine , anti - thyroid medication : propylthiouracil , and growth hormone products ) .
Discontinue growth hormone products at least one week before administering the MACRILEN diagnostic test .
Sufficient washout time of drugs affecting growth hormone release prior to administration of MACRILEN is recommended .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk summary There are no available data with MACRILEN use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with MACRILEN .
MACRILEN is indicated as a single dose which limits the risk of adverse developmental outcomes from exposure to MACRILEN .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of macimorelin in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of MACRILEN to an infant during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for MACRILEN and any potential adverse effecs on the breastfed infant from MACRILEN or the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of MACRILEN in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Growth hormone secretion normally decreases with age .
Therefore , elderly subjects might require a lower cut - off point for diagnosis of adult growth hormone deficiency .
Clinical studies of MACRILEN did not include a sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether elderly patients respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of an overdose , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
11 DESCRIPTION MACRILEN for oral solution is macimorelin acetate , a synthetic growth hormone secretagogue receptor agonist .
Macimorelin acetate is described chemically as D - Tryptophanamide , 2 - methylalanyl - N - [ ( 1 R ) - 1 - ( formylamino ) - 2 - ( 1 H - indol - 3 - yl ) ethyl ] - acetate .
The molecular formula for macimorelin acetate is C28H34N6O5 with a molecular weight of 534 . 6 g / mol .
Figure 1 : Chemical structure of macimorelin acetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each aluminum pouch of MACRILEN contains 60 mg of macimorelin , equivalent to 68 mg of macimorelin acetate , and the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , crospovidone , sodium stearyl fumarate , saccharin sodium and colloidal silicon dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Macimorelin stimulates GH release by activating growth hormone secretagogue receptors present in the pituitary and hypothalamus .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics GH stimulation Maximum GH levels are observed between 30 to 90 minutes after administration of MACRILEN .
Cardiac electrophysiology The effects of macimorelin on ECG parameters were investigated in a dedicated Thorough QT study that investigated in a 3 - way cross - over design with 60 healthy subjects the effects of a supra - therapeutic dose of macimorelin ( 2 mg / kg ) ( 4 times the recommended dosage ) in comparison with placebo and with moxifloxacin .
This study showed a mean baseline - and placebo - adjusted change ( upper single - sided 95 % confidence interval ) in QTcF of 9 . 6 msec ( 11 . 4 msec ) at 4 h post - dose , which occurred after the mean maximum macimorelin plasma concentration ( 0 . 5 h ) .
A similar increase in the QTcF interval was also observed in a single - ascending dose study , which included three dose levels ( 0 . 5 mg / kg , and 1 mg / kg and 2 mg / kg ( 2 times and 4 times the recommended dosage , respectively ) .
All three doses levels studied showed a similar magnitude of QTcF prolongation in the Thorough QT study , suggesting an absence of dose dependent changes .
The mechanism for the observed QTcF prolongation is unknown [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The mean plasma macimorelin concentrations are similar between patients with AGHD and healthy subjects for 1 . 5 hours following administration of a single oral dose of 0 . 5 mg macimorelin / kg body weight .
Absorption The maximum plasma macimorelin concentrations ( Cmax ) were observed between 0 . 5 hour and 1 . 5 hours following oral administration of 0 . 5 mg macimorelin / kg body weight to patients with AGHD under fasting for at least 8 hours .
A liquid meal decreased the macimorelin Cmax and AUC by 55 % and 49 % , respectively .
Elimination An in vitro human liver microsomes study showed that CYP3A4 is the major enzyme to metabolize macimorelin .
Macimorelin was eliminated with a mean terminal half - life ( T1 / 2 ) of 4 . 1 hours following administration of a single oral dose of 0 . 5 mg macimorelin / kg body weight in healthy subjects .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term carcinogenesis studies in rodents have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Macimorelin did not cause mutations in bacteria under assay conditions with or without metabolic activation .
There were also no mutations or clastogenic effects in mouse lymphoma cells with or without metabolic activation .
Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted to assess the effect of macimorelin on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The diagnostic efficacy of the MACRILEN test was established in a randomized , open - label , single - dose , cross - over study .
The objective of the study was to compare the level of agreement between MACRILEN test results and insulin tolerance test ( ITT ) results in adult patients with different pre - test probability of growth hormone deficiency and healthy control subjects .
The four groups of individuals evaluated were : • • Group A : Adults with a high likelihood of growth hormone deficiency ( GHD ) • oStructural hypothalamic or pituitary lesions and low insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and / or • oThree or more pituitary hormone deficiencies and low IGF - 1 , or • oChildhood onset GHD with structural lesions and low IGF - 1 .
• • Group B : Adults with an intermediate likelihood of GHD • oEligible subjects not qualifying for either high or low likelihood .
• • Group C : Adults with a low likelihood of GHD • oOne risk factor for GHD only , such as history of distant traumatic brain injury or one pituitary hormone deficiency only with otherwise normal pituitary function , or • oIsolated idiopathic childhood onset GHD without additional pituitary deficits .
• • Group D : Healthy adult controls • oHealthy subjects matching Group A subjects by sex , age ± 5 years , body mass index ( BMI ± 2 kg / m2 ) , and estrogen status ( females only ) .
For both the ITT and the MACRILEN test , serum concentrations of growth hormone were measured at 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 minutes after drug administration .
The test was considered positive ( i . e . , growth hormone deficiency diagnosed ) if the maximum serum GH level observed after stimulation was less than the pre - specified cut point value of 2 . 8 ng / mL for the MACRILEN test or 5 . 1 ng / mL for the ITT .
The level of negative and positive agreement between the results of the ITT and the MACRILEN test was used to evaluate the performance of the MACRILEN test .
In the study , the ITT is used as the benchmark ( i . e . , a negative ITT indicates absence of disease and a positive ITT indicates presence of disease ) .
Negative agreement is the proportion of subjects with a negative ITT ( i . e . , those who do not have GHD per the ITT ) who also have a negative MACRILEN test .
With a high level of negative agreement , the MACRILEN test will not wrongly diagnose an individual without GHD per the ITT as having GHD .
Positive agreement is the proportion of subjects with a positive ITT ( i . e . , those who have GHD per the ITT ) who also have a positive MACRILEN test .
With a high level of positive agreement , the MACRILEN test will not wrongly diagnose an individual with GHD per the ITT as not having GHD .
The agreement measures are defined mathematically below ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Definition of Agreement between ITT and MACRILEN Insulin Tolerance Test Total + - MACRILEN + a b a + b Positive Agreement ( % ) = 100 % x a / ( a + c ) - c d c + d Negative Agreement ( % ) = 100 % x d / ( b + d ) Total a + c b + d a + b + c + d Overall Agreement ( % ) = 100 % x ( a + d ) / ( a + b + c + d ) Results One hundred and fifty - seven subjects underwent at least one of the two tests in this study , 59 % were male , 41 % female , and 86 % of white origin .
The median age was 41 years ( range : 18 – 66 years ) and body mass index 27 . 5 kg / m2 ( range : 16 – 40 kg / m2 ) .
The study relied on a cross - over design and each participant was to undergo the two diagnostic tests and serve as his or her own control .
Data on both tests were available for 140 subjects ; 38 ( 27 % ) in Group A , 37 ( 26 % ) in Group B , 40 ( 29 % ) in Group C , and 25 ( 18 % ) in Group D .
One out of 154 MACRILEN tests ( 0 . 6 % ) performed failed due to a technical error and 27 out of 157 ITTs ( 17 . 2 % ) performed failed because induction of severe hypoglycemia ( i . e . , the stimulus ) could not be achieved .
Two - by - two tables presenting the pre - specified primary analysis results for the ITT and MACRILEN test are shown below for all subjects ( Groups A , B , C , and D combined ) and for each group separately ( see Table 3 ) .
The estimates for negative and positive agreement between MACRILEN and the ITT in the overall study population were 94 % and 74 % with lower 95 % confidence interval bounds 85 % and 63 % , respectively .
Negative and positive agreement between MACRILEN and the ITT in subjects with intermediate or low risk ( Groups B and C ) were 93 % and 61 % with lower 95 % confidence interval bounds 80 % and 43 % , respectively .
These results are based on peak GH values ( maximum GH concentrations across all measurement timepoints ) .
Table 3 : Diagnostic Outcomes for MACRILEN and the ITT in all Subjects ( Groups A , B , C , and D ) and in Each Group Separately All Subjects Insulin Tolerance Test Total Agreement Between + - ITT and MACRILEN MACRILEN + 55 4 59 Positive 74 % - 19 62 81 Negative 94 % Total 74 66 140 Overall 84 % Group A High likelihood of AGHD Insulin Tolerance Test Total + - MACRILEN + 33 0 33 Positive 89 % - 4 1 5 Negative 100 % Total 37 1 38 Overall 89 % Group B Intermediate likelihood of AGHD Insulin Tolerance Test Total + - MACRILEN + 20 1 21 Positive 67 % - 10 6 16 Negative 86 % Total 30 7 37 Overall 70 % Group C Low likelihood of AGHD Insulin Tolerance Test Total + - MACRILEN + 2 2 4 Positive 33 % - 4 32 36 Negative 94 % Total 6 34 40 Overall 85 % Group D Healthy control Insulin Tolerance Test Total + - MACRILEN + 0 1 1 Positive 0 % - 1 23 24 Negative 96 % Total 1 24 25 Overall 92 % Repeatability was tested in a subset of 34 subjects who underwent two MACRILEN tests .
Agreement between the result of the first test and the second test was observed in 31 cases ( 91 . 2 % ) .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING MACRILEN 60 mg is supplied as white to off - white granules in an aluminum pouch .
Each pouch contains 60 mg macimorelin ( equivalent to 68 mg macimorelin acetate ) that when reconstituted with 120 mL of water provides a 60 mg / 120 mL ( 0 . 5 mg / mL ) macimorelin solution .
MACRILEN is available in boxes containing 1 pouch per box ( NDC 71090 - 002 - 02 ) .
Before administration , MACRILEN for oral solution must be reconstituted by a healthcare professional [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Store pouches under refrigeration at 2 - 8 ° C ( 36 - 46 ° F ) .
The solution must be used within 30 minutes after preparation .
Discard unused portion .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Instruct patients to discontinue treatment with GH at least one week before administering MACRILEN .
Also , instruct patients to discontinue other medications that may interfere with the diagnostic test results prior to MACRILEN administration [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients to fast for at least 8 hours before MACRILEN administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Allphamed Pharbil Arzneimittel GmbH , Goettingen , Germany Distributed by : Strongbridge U . S . Inc . , Trevose , PA 19053 MACRILEN ™ is a trademark of Aeterna Zentaris GmbH , licensed exclusively in the U . S . and Canada to Strongbridge Ireland Limited .
MACRILEN is the subject of U . S . Patent Nos . 6 , 861 , 409 and 8 , 192 , 719 .
STRONGBRIDGE BIOPHARMA ® is a registered trademark of the Strongbridge Biopharma plc . companies , which include Strongbridge Ireland Limited and Strongbridge U . S . Inc .
Revised : January 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Macrilen Pouch Label Rx only NDC 71090 - 002 - 02 Macrilen ™ ( macimorelin ) for oral solution 60 mg Must administer dose within 30 minutes after reconstitution .
Discard unused portion .
For oral use only .
193277 / 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Macrilen Carton Label Rx only NDC 71090 - 002 - 02 Macrilen ™ ( macimorelin ) for oral solution 60 mg One Pouch Must administer dose within 30 minutes after reconstitution .
Discard unused portion .
For oral use only .
Strongbridge Biopharma [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
