DESCRIPTION Propoxyphene hydrochloride is an odorless white crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water .
Chemically , it is ( 2 S , 3 R ) - ( + ) - 4 - ( Dimethylamino ) - 3 - methyl - 1 , 2 - diphenyl - 2 - butanol propionate ( ester ) hydrochloride , which can be represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetaminophen is a white , crystalline powder , possessing a slightly bitter taste .
It is soluble in boiling water and freely soluble in alcohol .
Chemically , it is 4 ’ - Hydroxyacetanilide , which can be presented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 65 mg propoxyphene hydrochloride and 650 mg acetaminophen .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , crospovidone , D & C Red No . 30 aluminum lake , D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrillin potassium , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , povidone , pregelatinized starch , stearic acid , and titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Propoxyphene is a centrally acting narcotic analgesic agent .
Equimolar doses of propoxyphene hydrochloride or napsylate provide similar plasma concentrations .
Following administration of 65 , 130 , or 195 mg of propoxyphene hydrochloride , the bioavailability of propoxyphene is equivalent to that of 100 , 200 , or 300 mg respectively of propoxyphene napsylate .
Peak plasma concentrations of propoxyphene are reached in 2 to 21 / 2 hours .
After a 65 - mg oral dose of propoxyphene hydrochloride , peak plasma levels of 0 . 05 to 0 . 1 mcg / mL are achieved .
As shown in Figure 1 , the napsylate salt tends to be absorbed more slowly than the hydrochloride .
At or near therapeutic doses , this absorption difference is small when compared with that among subjects and among doses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Because of this several hundredfold difference in solubility , the absorption rate of very large doses of the napsylate salt is significantly lower than that of equimolar doses of the hydrochloride .
Repeated doses of propoxyphene at 6 - hour intervals lead to increasing plasma concentrations , with a plateau after the ninth dose at 48 hours .
Propoxyphene is metabolized in the liver to yield norpropoxyphene .
Propoxyphene has a half - life of 6 to 12 hours , whereas that of norpropoxyphene is 30 to 36 hours .
Norpropoxyphene has substantially less central nervous system depressant effect than propoxyphene , but a greater local anesthetic effect , which is similar to that of amitriptyline and antiarrhythmic agents , such as lidocaine and quinidine .
In animal studies in which propoxyphene and norpropoxyphene were continuously infused in large amounts , intracardiac conduction time ( PR and QRS intervals ) was prolonged .
Any intracardiac conduction delay attributable to high concentrations of norpropoxyphene may be of relatively long duration .
ACTIONS Propoxyphene is a mild narcotic analgesic structurally related to methadone .
The potency of propoxyphene hydrochloride is from two - thirds to equal that of codeine .
Propoxyphene hydrochloride and acetaminophen provide the analgesic activity of propoxyphene hydrochloride and the antipyretic - analgesic activity of acetaminophen .
The combination of propoxyphene and acetaminophen produces greater analgesia than that produced by either propoxyphene or acetaminophen administered alone .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Propoxyphene hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of mild - to - moderate pain , either when pain is present alone or when it is accompanied by fever .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to propoxyphene or to acetaminophen .
WARNINGS Do not prescribe propoxyphene for patients who are suicidal or addiction - prone .
Prescribe propoxyphene with caution for patients taking tranquilizers or antidepressant drugs and patients who use alcohol in excess .
Tell your patients not to exceed the recommended dose and to limit their intake of alcohol .
Propoxyphene products in excessive doses , either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , are a major cause of drug - related deaths .
Fatalities within the first hour of overdosage are not uncommon .
In a survey of deaths due to overdosage conducted in 1975 , in approximately 20 % of the fatal cases , death occurred within the first hour ( 5 % occurred within 15 minutes ) .
Propoxyphene should not be taken in doses higher than those recommended by the physician .
The judicious prescribing of propoxyphene is essential to the safe use of this drug .
With patients who are depressed or suicidal , consideration should be given to the use of non - narcotic analgesics .
Patients should be cautioned about the concomitant use of propoxyphene products and alcohol because of potentially serious CNS - additive effects of these agents .
Because of its added depressant effects , propoxyphene should be prescribed with caution for those patients whose medical condition requires the concomitant administration of sedatives , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , antidepressants or other CNS - depressant drugs .
Patients should be advised of the additive depressant effects of these combinations .
Many of the propoxyphene - related deaths have occurred in patients with previous histories of emotional disturbances or suicidal ideation or attempts , as well as histories of misuse of tranquilizers , alcohol , and other CNS - active drugs .
Some deaths have occurred as a consequence of the accidental ingestion of excessive quantities of propoxyphene alone or in combination with other drugs .
Patients taking propoxyphene should be warned not to exceed the dosage recommended by the physician .
DRUG DEPENDENCE Propoxyphene , when taken in higher - than - recommended doses over long periods of time , can produce drug dependence characterized by psychic dependence and , less frequently , physical dependence and tolerance .
Propoxyphene will only partially suppress the withdrawal syndrome in individuals physically dependent on morphine or other narcotics .
The abuse liability of propoxyphene is qualitatively similar to that of codeine although quantitatively less , and propoxyphene should be prescribed with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of codeine .
USAGE IN AMBULATORY PATIENTS Propoxyphene may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks , such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Propoxyphene should be administered with caution to patients with hepatic or renal impairment since higher serum concentrations or delayed elimination may occur .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS A Patient Information Sheet is available for the product .
See text following ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY section below .
DRUG INTERACTIONS The CNS - depressant effect of propoxyphene is additive with that of other CNS depressants , including alcohol .
As is the case with many medicinal agents , propoxyphene may slow the metabolism of a concomitantly administered drug .
Should this occur , the higher serum concentrations of that drug may result in increased pharmacologic or adverse effects of that drug .
Such occurrences have been reported when propoxyphene was administered to patients on antidepressants , anticonvulsants , or warfarin - like drugs .
Severe neurologic signs , including coma , have occurred with concurrent use of carbamazepine .
PREGNANCY Safe use in pregnancy has not been established relative to possible adverse effects on fetal development .
Instances of withdrawal symptoms in the neonate have been reported following usage during pregnancy .
Therefore , propoxyphene should not be used in pregnant women unless , in the judgement of the physician , the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
NURSING MOTHERS Low levels of propoxyphene have been detected in human milk .
In postpartum studies involving nursing mothers who were given propoxyphene , no adverse effects were noted in infants receiving mother ' s milk .
PEDIATRIC USE Propoxyphene is not recommended for use in pediatric patients because documented clinical experience has been insufficient to establish safety and a suitable dosage regimen in the pediatric age group .
USAGE IN THE ELDERLY The rate of propoxyphene metabolism may be reduced in some patients .
Increased dosing interval should be considered .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a survey conducted in hospitalized patients , less than 1 % of patients taking propoxyphene hydrochloride at recommended doses experienced side effects .
The most frequently reported were dizziness , sedation , nausea , and vomiting .
Some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include constipation , abdominal pain , skin rashes , light - headedness , headache , weakness , euphoria , dysphoria , hallucinations and minor visual disturbances .
Liver dysfunction has been reported in association with both active components of propoxyphene hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets .
Propoxyphene therapy has been associated with abnormal liver - function tests and , more rarely , with instances of reversible jaundice ( including cholestatic jaundice ) .
Hepatic necrosis may result from acute overdose of acetaminophen ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
In chronic ethanol abusers , this has been reported rarely with short - term use of acetaminophen dosages of 2 . 5 to 10 g / day .
Fatalities have occurred .
Renal papillary necrosis may result from chronic acetaminophen use , particularly when the dosage is greater than recommended and when combined with aspirin .
Subacute painful myopathy has occurred following chronic propoxyphene overdosage .
OVERDOSAGE In all cases of suspected overdosage , call your regional Poison Control Center to obtain the most up - to - date information about the treatment of overdosage .
This recommendation is made because , in general , information regarding the treatment of overdosage may change more rapidly than do package inserts .
Initial consideration should be given to the management of the CNS effects of propoxyphene overdosage .
Resuscitative measures should be initiated promptly .
SYMPTOMS OF PROPOXYPHENE OVERDOSAGE The manifestations of acute overdosage with propoxyphene are those of narcotic overdosage .
The patient is usually somnolent , but may be stuporous or comatose and convulsing .
Respiratory depression is characteristic .
The ventilatory rate and / or tidal volume is decreased , which results in cyanosis and hypoxia .
Pupils , initially pinpoint , may become dilated as hypoxia increases .
Cheyne - Stokes respiration and apnea may occur .
Blood pressure and heart rate are usually normal initially , but blood pressure falls and cardiac performance deteriorates , which ultimately results in pulmonary edema and circulatory collapse unless the respiratory depression is corrected and adequate ventilation is restored promptly .
Cardiac arrhythmias and conduction delay may be present .
A combined respiratory - metabolic acidosis occurs owing to retained CO2 ( hypercapnia ) and to lactic acid formed during anaerobic glycolysis .
Acidosis may be severe if large amounts of salicylates have also been ingested .
Death may occur .
TREATMENT OF PROPOXYPHENE OVERDOSAGE Attention should be directed first to establishing a patent airway and to restoring ventilation .
Mechanically assisted ventilation , with or without oxygen , may be required , and positive - pressure respiration may be desirable if pulmonary edema is present .
The narcotic antagonist naloxone will markedly reduce the degree of respiratory depression , and 0 . 4 to 2 mg should be administered promptly , preferably intravenously .
If the desired degree of counteraction with improvement in respiratory functions is not obtained , naloxone should be repeated at 2 - to - 3 - minute intervals .
The duration of action of the antagonist may be brief .
If no response is observed after 10 mg of naloxone have been administered , the diagnosis of propoxyphene toxicity should be questioned .
Naloxone may also be administered by continuous intravenous infusion .
TREATMENT OF PROPOXYPHENE OVERDOSAGE IN CHILDREN The usual initial dose of naloxone in children is 0 . 01 mg / kg body weight given intravenously .
If the dose does not result in the desired degree of clinical improvement , a subsequent increased dose of 0 . 1 mg / kg body weight may be administered .
If an IV route of administration is not available , naloxone may be administered IM or subcutaneously in divided doses .
If necessary , naloxone can be diluted with Sterile Water for Injection .
Blood gases , pH , and electrolytes should be monitored in order that acidosis and any electrolyte disturbance present may be corrected promptly .
Acidosis , hypoxia , and generalized CNS depression predispose to the development of cardiac arrhythmias .
Ventricular fibrillation or cardiac arrest may occur and necessitate the full complement of cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( CPR ) measures .
Respiratory acidosis rapidly subsides as ventilation is restored and hypercapnia eliminated , but lactic acidosis may require intravenous bicarbonate for prompt correction .
Electrocardiographic monitoring is essential .
Prompt correction of hypoxia , acidosis , and electrolyte disturbance ( when present ) will help prevent these cardiac complications and will increase the effectiveness of agents administered to restore normal cardiac function .
In addition to the use of narcotic antagonist , the patient may require careful titration with an anticonvulsant to control convulsions .
Analeptic drugs ( for example , caffeine or amphetamine ) should not be used because of tendency to precipitate convulsions .
General supportive measures , in addition to oxygen , include , when necessary , intravenous fluids , vasopressor - inotropic compounds , and when infection is likely , anti - infective agents .
Gastric lavage may be useful , and activated charcoal can adsorb a significant amount of ingested propoxyphene .
Dialysis is of little value in poisoning due to propoxyphene .
Efforts should be made to determine whether other agents such as alcohol , barbiturates , tranquilizers , or other CNS depressants , were also ingested , since these increase CNS depression as well as cause specific toxic effects .
SYMPTOMS OF ACETAMINOPHEN OVERDOSAGE Shortly after oral ingestion of an overdosage of acetaminophen and for the next 24 hours , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , general malaise and abdominal pain have been noted .
The patient may then present no symptoms , but evidence of liver dysfunction may become apparent up to 72 hours after ingestion , with elevated serum transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase levels , an increase in serum bilirubin concentrations , and a prolonged prothrombin time .
Death from hepatic failure may result 3 to 7 days after overdosage .
Acute renal failure may accompany the hepatic dysfunction and has been noted in patients who do not exhibit signs of fulminant hepatic failure .
Typically , renal impairment is more apparent 6 to 9 days after ingestion of the overdose .
TREATMENT OF ACETAMINOPHEN OVERDOSAGE Acetaminophen in massive overdosage may cause hepatic toxicity in some patients .
In all cases of suspected overdose , immediately call your regional poison control center for assistance in diagnosis and for directions in the use of N - acetylcysteine as an antidote .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 g and fatalities with less than 15 g . Importantly , young children seem to be more resistant than adults to the hepatotoxic effect of an acetaminophen overdose .
Despite this , the measures outlined below should be initiated in any adult or child suspected of having ingested an acetaminophen overdose .
Because clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours postingestion , liver function studies should be obtained initially and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Consider emptying the stomach promptly by lavage or by induction of emesis with syrup of ipecac .
Patients ’ estimates of the quantity of a drug ingested are notoriously unreliable .
Therefore , if an acetaminophen overdose is suspected , a serum acetaminophen assay should be obtained as early as possible , but no sooner than four hours following ingestion .
The antidote , N - acetylcysteine , should be administered as early as possible , and within 16 hours of the overdose ingestion for optimal results .
Following recovery , there are no residual , structural or functional hepatic abnormalities .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The product is given orally .
The usual dose is 65 mg propoxyphene hydrochloride and 650 mg acetaminophen every 4 hours as needed for pain .
The maximum recommended dose of propoxyphene hydrochloride is 390 mg per day .
Consideration should be given to a reduced total daily dosage in patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
HOW SUPPLIED Propoxyphene Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets 65 mg / 650 mg are orange , oblong , unscored tablets , marked 714 , and 65 over 650 on one side of the tablet and WATSON on the other side , containing 65 mg of propoxyphene hydrochloride and 650 mg of acetaminophen available in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Keep tightly closed .
Protect from light .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY The acute lethal doses of the hydrochloride and napsylate salts of propoxyphene were determined in 4 species .
The results shown in Figure 2 indicate that on a molar basis , the napsylate salt is less toxic than the hydrochloride .
This may be due to the relative insolubility and retarded absorption of propoxyphene napsylate .
FIGURE 2 ACUTE ORAL TOXICITY LD50 ( mg / kg ) ± SE ————————— LD50 ( mMole / kg ) Species Propoxyphene Propoxyphene Hydrochloride Napsylate Mouse 282 ± 39 915 ± 163 0 . 75 1 . 62 Rat 230 ± 44 647 ± 95 0 . 61 1 . 14 Rabbit ca . 82 > 183 0 . 22 > 0 . 32 Dog ca . 100 > 183 0 . 27 > 0 . 32 Some indication of the relative insolubility and retarded absorption of propoxyphene napsylate was obtained by measuring plasma propoxyphene levels in 2 groups of 4 dogs following oral administration of equimolar doses of the 2 salts .
As shown in Figure 3 , the peak plasma concentration observed with propoxyphene hydrochloride was much higher than that obtained after administration of the napsylate salt .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Although none of the animals in this experiment died , 3 of the 4 dogs given propoxyphene hydrochloride exhibited convulsive seizures during the time interval corresponding to the peak plasma levels .
The 4 animals receiving the napsylate salt were mildly ataxic but not acutely ill .
PATIENT INFORMATION SHEET YOUR PRESCRIPTION FOR PROPOXYPHENE HYDROCHLORIDE AND ACETAMINOPHEN TABLETS Summary Products containing propoxyphene are used to relieve pain .
LIMIT YOUR INTAKE OF ALCOHOL WHILE TAKING THIS DRUG .
Make sure your doctor knows if you are taking tranquilizers , sleep aids , antidepressants , antihistamines , or any other drugs that make you sleepy .
Combining propoxyphene with alcohol or these drugs in excessive doses is dangerous .
Use care while driving a car or using machines until you see how the drug affects you , because propoxyphene can make you sleepy .
Do not take more of the drug than your doctor prescribed .
Dependence has occurred when patients have taken propoxyphene for a long period of time at doses greater than recommended .
The rest of this leaflet gives you more information about propoxyphene .
Please read it and keep it for further use .
Uses for Propoxyphene Products containing propoxyphene are used for the relief of mild to moderate pain .
Products which contain propoxyphene plus acetaminophen are prescribed for the relief of pain or pain associated with fever .
Before taking Propoxyphene Make sure your doctor knows if you have ever had an allergic reaction to propoxyphene or acetaminophen .
The effect of propoxyphene in children under 12 has not been studied .
Therefore , use of the drug in this age group is not recommended .
How to take Propoxyphene Follow your doctor ’ s directions exactly .
Do not increase the amount you take without your doctor ’ s approval .
If you miss a dose of the drug , do not take twice as much the next time .
Pregnancy Do not take propoxyphene during pregnancy unless your doctor knows you are pregnant and specifically recommends its use .
Cases of temporary dependence in the newborn have occurred when the mother has taken propoxyphene consistently in the weeks before delivery .
As a general principle , no drug should be taken during pregnancy unless it is clearly necessary .
General Cautions Heavy use of alcohol with propoxyphene is hazardous and may lead to overdosage symptoms ( see “ Overdosage ” below ) ; THEREFORE , LIMIT YOUR INTAKE OF ALCOHOL WHILE TAKING PROPOXYPHENE .
Combinations of excessive doses of propoxyphene , alcohol , and tranquilizers are dangerous .
Make sure your doctor knows if you are taking tranquilizers , sleep aids , antidepressant drugs , antihistamines , or any other drugs that make you sleepy .
The use of these drugs with propoxyphene increases their sedative effects and may lead to overdosage symptoms , including death ( see “ Overdosage ” below ) .
Propoxyphene may cause drowsiness or impair your mental and / or physical abilities ; therefore , use caution when driving a vehicle or operating dangerous machinery .
DO NOT perform any hazardous task until you have seen your response to this drug .
Propoxyphene may increase the concentration in the body of medications such as anticoagulants ( “ blood thinners ” ) , antidepressants , or drugs used for epilepsy .
The result may be excessive or adverse effects of these medications .
Make sure your doctor knows if you are taking any of these medications .
Dependence You can become dependent on propoxyphene if you take it in higher than recommended doses over a long period of time .
Dependence is a feeling of need for the drug and a feeling that you cannot perform normally without it .
Overdosage An overdose of propoxyphene , alone or in combination with other drugs , including alcohol , may cause weakness , difficulty in breathing , confusion , anxiety , and more severe drowsiness and dizziness .
Extreme overdosage may lead to unconsciousness and death .
If the propoxyphene product contains acetaminophen , the overdosage symptoms include nausea , vomiting , lack of appetite , and abdominal pain .
Liver damage may occur even after symptoms disappear .
Death can occur days later .
In any suspected overdosage situation , contact your doctor or nearest hospital emergency room .
GET EMERGENCY HELP IMMEDIATELY .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Possible Side Effects When propoxyphene is taken as directed , side effects are infrequent .
Among those reported are drowsiness , dizziness , nausea , and vomiting .
If these effects occur , it may help if you lie down and rest .
Less frequently reported side effects are constipation , abdominal pain , skin rashes , light - headedness , headache , weakness , minor visual disturbances , and feelings of elation or discomfort .
If side effects occur and concern you , contact your doctor .
Other information The safe and effective use of propoxyphene depends on your taking it exactly as directed .
This drug has been prescribed specifically for you and your present condition .
Do not give this drug to others who may have similar symptoms .
Do not use it for any other reason .
If you would like more information about propoxyphene , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
They have a more technical leaflet ( professional labeling ) you may read .
Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA 30163 - 3 Rev : September 2003 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
