Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Anesthetic Uses for the temporary relief of occasional minor irritation and pain associated with : • canker sores • sore mouth and throat • minor injury of the mouth and gums • minor dental procedures • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics .
Sore throat warning : If sore throat is severe , persists for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever , headache , rash , swelling , nausea , or vomiting , consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days , or irritation , pain , or redness persists or worsens , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
Do not use Do not use • if imprinted seal under cap is broken or missing • for teething • in children under 2 years of age When using this product When using this product : avoid contact with eyes Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Directions • do not exceed recommended dosage adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area .
Allow to remain in place at least 1 minute and then spit out .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
children under 12 years of age : should be supervised in the use of the product children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information Other information store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredient flavor , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 238 - 8542 M - F : 8 : 00 a . m . to 4 : 30 p . m . ET Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0283 - 0293 - 31 HURRICAINE Topical Anesthetic GEL 20 % Benzocaine Oral Anesthetic WATERMELON Manufactured for : Beutlich Pharmaceuticals LLC Bunnell , FL 32110 Made in the USA 1 oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
