DESCRIPTION Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is supplied in capsule form for oral administration .
Each capsule contains the following active ingredients : butalbital , USP . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 mg aspirin , USP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
325 mg caffeine , USP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 mg Butalbital ( 5 - allyl - 5 - isobutylbarbituric acid ) is a short - to intermediate - acting barbiturate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C11H16N2O3 molecular weight 224 . 26 Aspirin ( benzoic acid , 2 - ( acetyloxy ) - ) is an analgesic , antipyretic , and anti - inflammatory .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H8O4 molecular weight 180 . 16 Caffeine ( 1 , 3 , 7 - trimethylxanthine ) is a central nervous system stimulant .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C8H10N4O2 molecular weight 194 . 19 Inactive Ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , and talc .
Gelatin capsules contain D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Green No . 3 , and gelatin .
The capsules are printed with edible ink containing red iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacologically , Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP combines the analgesic properties of aspirin with the anxiolytic and muscle relaxant properties of butalbital .
The clinical effectiveness of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine capsules in tension headache has been established in double - blind , placebo - controlled , multi - clinic trials .
A factorial design study compared butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine capsules with each of its major components .
This study demonstrated that each component contributes to the efficacy of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine capsules in the treatment of the target symptoms of tension headache ( headache pain , psychic tension , and muscle contraction in the head , neck , and shoulder region ) .
For each symptom and the symptom complex as a whole , butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine capsules was shown to have significantly superior clinical effects to either component alone .
Pharmacokinetics The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Aspirin The systemic availability of aspirin after an oral dose is highly dependent on the dosage form , the presence of food , the gastric emptying time , gastric pH , antacids , buffering agents , and particle size .
These factors affect not necessarily the extent of absorption of total salicylates but more the stability of aspirin prior to absorption .
During the absorption process and after absorption , aspirin is mainly hydrolyzed to salicylic acid and distributed to all body tissues and fluids , including fetal tissues , breast milk , and the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Highest concentrations are found in plasma , liver , renal cortex , heart , and lung .
In plasma , about 50 % - 80 % of the salicylic acid and its metabolites are loosely bound to plasma proteins .
The clearance of total salicylates is subject to saturable kinetics ; however , first - order elimination kinetics are still a good approximation for doses up to 650 mg .
The plasma half - life for aspirin is about 12 minutes and for salicylic acid and / or total salicylates is about 3 hours .
The elimination of therapeutic doses is through the kidneys either as salicylic acid or other biotransformation products .
The renal clearance is greatly augmented by an alkaline urine as is produced by concurrent administration of sodium bicarbonate or potassium citrate .
The biotransformation of aspirin occurs primarily in the hepatocytes .
The major metabolites are salicyluric acid ( 75 % ) , the phenolic and acyl glucuronides of salicylate ( 15 % ) , and gentisic and gentisuric acid ( 1 % ) .
The bioavailability of the aspirin component of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is equivalent to that of a solution except for a slower rate of absorption .
A peak concentration of 8 . 8 mcg / mL was obtained at 40 minutes after a 650 mg dose .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Butalbital Butalbital is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is expected to distribute to most of the tissues in the body .
Barbiturates , in general , may appear in breast milk and readily cross the placental barrier .
They are bound to plasma and tissue proteins to a varying degree and binding increases directly as a function of lipid solubility .
Elimination of butalbital is primarily via the kidney ( 59 % - 88 % of the dose ) as unchanged drug or metabolites .
The plasma half - life is about 35 hours .
Urinary excretion products included parent drug ( about 3 . 6 % of the dose ) , 5 - isobutyl - 5 - ( 2 , 3 - dihydroxypropyl ) barbituric acid ( about 24 % of the dose ) , 5 - allyl - 5 ( 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 - propyl ) barbituric acid ( about 4 . 8 % of the dose ) , products with the barbituric acid ring hydrolyzed with excretion of urea ( about 14 % of the dose ) , as well as unidentified materials .
Of the material excreted in the urine , 32 % was conjugated .
The bioavailability of the butalbital component of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is equivalent to that of a solution except for a decrease in the rate of absorption .
A peak concentration of 2 , 020 ng / mL is obtained at about 1 . 5 hours after a 100 mg dose .
The in vitro plasma protein binding of butalbital is 45 % over the concentration range of 0 . 5 - 20 mcg / mL .
This falls within the range of plasma protein binding ( 20 % - 45 % ) reported with other barbiturates such as phenobarbital , pentobarbital , and secobarbital sodium .
The plasma - to - blood concentration ratio was almost unity indicating that there is no preferential distribution of butalbital into either plasma or blood cells .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Caffeine Like most xanthines , caffeine is rapidly absorbed and distributed in all body tissues and fluids , including the CNS , fetal tissues , and breast milk .
Caffeine is cleared rapidly through metabolism and excretion in the urine .
The plasma half - life is about 3 hours .
Hepatic biotransformation prior to excretion results in about equal amounts of 1 - methylxanthine and 1 - methyluric acid .
Of the 70 % of the dose that has been recovered in the urine , only 3 % was unchanged drug .
The bioavailability of the caffeine component for Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is equivalent to that of a solution except for a slightly longer time to peak .
A peak concentration of 1 , 660 ng / mL was obtained in less than an hour for an 80 mg dose .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is indicated for the relief of the symptom complex of tension ( or muscle contraction ) headache .
Evidence supporting the efficacy and safety of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP in the treatment of multiple recurrent headaches is unavailable .
Caution in this regard is required because butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is contraindicated under the following conditions : • Hypersensitivity or intolerance to aspirin , caffeine , or butalbital .
• Patients with a hemorrhagic diathesis ( e . g . , hemophilia , hypoprothrombinemia , von Willebrand ’ s disease , the thrombocytopenias , thrombasthenia and other ill - defined hereditary platelet dysfunctions , severe vitamin K deficiency and severe liver damage ) .
• Patients with the syndrome of nasal polyps , angioedema and bronchospastic reactivity to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in such patients .
• Peptic ulcer or other serious gastrointestinal lesions .
• Patients with porphyria .
WARNINGS Therapeutic doses of aspirin can cause anaphylactic shock and other severe allergic reactions .
It should be ascertained if the patient is allergic to aspirin , although a specific history of allergy may be lacking .
Significant bleeding can result from aspirin therapy in patients with peptic ulcer or other gastrointestinal lesions , and in patients with bleeding disorders .
Aspirin administered preoperatively may prolong the bleeding time .
Butalbital is habit - forming and potentially abusable .
Consequently , the extended use of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is not recommended .
Results from epidemiologic studies indicate an association between aspirin and Reye ’ s Syndrome .
Caution should be used in administering this product to children , including teenagers , with chicken pox or flu .
PRECAUTIONS General Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP should be prescribed with caution for certain special - risk patients such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , coagulation disorders , head injuries , elevated intracranial pressure , acute abdominal conditions , hypothyroidism , urethral stricture , Addison ’ s disease , or prostatic hypertrophy .
Aspirin should be used with caution in patients on anticoagulant therapy and in patients with underlying hemostatic defects , and extreme caution in the presence of peptic ulcer .
Precautions should be taken when administering salicylates to persons with known allergies .
Hypersensitivity to aspirin is particularly likely in patients with nasal polyps , and relatively common in those with asthma .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP contains aspirin and should not be taken by patients with an aspirin allergy .
Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression when taken with Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP and should be avoided .
Butalbital may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Laboratory Tests In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions The CNS effects of butalbital may be enhanced by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids and chronic use of aspirin , withdrawal of corticosteroids may result in salicylism because corticosteroids enhance renal clearance of salicylates and their withdrawal is followed by return to normal rates of renal clearance .
Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP may enhance the effects of : • Oral anticoagulants , causing bleeding by inhibiting prothrombin formation in the liver and displacing anticoagulants from plasma protein binding sites .
• Oral antidiabetic agents and insulin , causing hypoglycemia by contributing an additive effect , if dosage of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP exceeds maximum recommended daily dosage .
• 6 - mercaptopurine and methotrexate , causing bone marrow toxicity and blood dyscrasias by displacing these drugs from secondary binding sites , and , in the case of methotrexate , also reducing its excretion .
• Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents , increasing the risk of peptic ulceration and bleeding by contributing additive effects .
• Other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide , sedative - hypnotics , or other CNS depressants , causing increased CNS depression .
Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP may diminish the effects of : Uricosuric agents such as probenecid and sulfinpyrazone , reducing their effectiveness in the treatment of gout .
Aspirin competes with these agents for protein binding sites .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Aspirin : Aspirin may interfere with the following laboratory determinations in blood : serum amylase , fasting blood glucose , cholesterol , protein , serum glutamic - oxaloacetic transaminase ( SGOT ) , uric acid , prothrombin time and bleeding time .
Aspirin may interfere with the following laboratory determinations in urine : glucose , 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid , Gerhardt ketone , vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) , uric acid , diacetic acid , and spectrophotometric detection of barbiturates .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Adequate long - term studies have been conducted in mice and rats with aspirin , alone or in combination with other drugs , in which no evidence of carcinogenesis was seen .
No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether aspirin has a potential for mutagenesis or impairment of fertility .
No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether butalbital has a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Usage in Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP .
It is also not known whether Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only when clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Withdrawal seizures were reported in a two - day - old male infant whose mother had taken a butalbital - containing drug during the last 2 months of pregnancy .
Butalbital was found in the infant ’ s serum .
The infant was given phenobarbital 5 mg / kg , which was tapered without further seizure or other withdrawal symptoms .
Studies of aspirin use in pregnant women have not shown that aspirin increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during the first trimester of pregnancy .
In controlled studies involving 41 , 337 pregnant women and their offspring , there was no evidence that aspirin taken during pregnancy caused stillbirth , neonatal death or reduced birth weight .
In controlled studies of 50 , 282 pregnant women and their offspring , aspirin administration in moderate and heavy doses during the first four lunar months of pregnancy showed no teratogenic effect .
Therapeutic doses of aspirin in pregnant women close to term may cause bleeding in mother , fetus , or neonate .
During the last 6 months of pregnancy , regular use of aspirin in high doses may prolong pregnancy and delivery .
Labor and Delivery Ingestion of aspirin prior to delivery may prolong delivery or lead to bleeding in the mother or neonate .
Nursing Mothers Aspirin , caffeine , and barbiturates are excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of their effects on nursing infants is not known .
Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are drowsiness and dizziness .
Less frequent adverse reactions are lightheadedness and gastrointestinal disturbances including nausea , vomiting , and flatulence .
A single incidence of bone marrow suppression has been reported with the use of butalbital , aspirin , and caffeine capsules .
Several cases of dermatological reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme have been reported .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP is controlled by the Drug Enforcement Administration and is classified under Schedule III .
Abuse and Dependence Butalbital Barbiturates may be habit - forming : Tolerance , psychological dependence , and physical dependence may occur especially following prolonged use of high doses of barbiturates .
The average daily dose for the barbiturate addict is usually about 1 , 500 mg .
As tolerance to barbiturates develops , the amount needed to maintain the same level of intoxication increases ; tolerance to a fatal dosage , however , does not increase more than two - fold .
As this occurs , the margin between an intoxication dosage and fatal dosage becomes smaller .
The lethal dose of a barbiturate is far less if alcohol is also ingested .
Major withdrawal symptoms ( convulsions and delirium ) may occur within 16 hours and last up to 5 days after abrupt cessation of these drugs .
Intensity of withdrawal symptoms gradually declines over a period of approximately 15 days .
Treatment of barbiturate dependence consists of cautious and gradual withdrawal of the drug .
Barbiturate - dependent patients can be withdrawn by using a number of different withdrawal regimens .
One method involves initiating treatment at the patient ’ s regular dosage level and gradually decreasing the daily dosage as tolerated by the patient .
OVERDOSAGE The toxic effects of acute overdosage of Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP are attributable mainly to its barbiturate component , and , to a lesser extent , aspirin .
Because toxic effects of caffeine occur in very high dosages only , the possibility of significant caffeine toxicity from Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP overdosage is unlikely .
Signs and Symptoms Symptoms attributable to acute barbiturate poisoning include drowsiness , confusion , and coma ; respiratory depression ; hypotension ; hypovolemic shock .
Symptoms attributable to acute aspirin poisoning include hyperpnea ; acid - base disturbances with development of metabolic acidosis ; vomiting and abdominal pain ; tinnitus ; hyperthermia ; hypoprothrombinemia ; restlessness ; delirium ; convulsions .
Acute caffeine poisoning may cause insomnia , restlessness , tremor , and delirium ; tachycardia and extrasystoles .
Treatment Treatment consists primarily of management of barbiturate intoxication and the correction of the acid - base imbalance due to salicylism .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically or with emetics in the conscious patient .
Gastric lavage may be used if the pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes are present and if less than 4 hours have elapsed since ingestion .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and when necessary to provide assisted respiration .
Diuresis , alkalinization of the urine , and correction of electrolyte disturbances should be accomplished through administration of intravenous fluids such as 1 % sodium bicarbonate in 5 % dextrose in water .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
The value of vasopressor agents such as Norepinephrine or Phenylephrine Hydrochloride in treating hypotension is questionable since they increase vasoconstriction and decrease blood flow .
However , if prolonged support of blood pressure is required , Norepinephrine Bitartrate ( Levophed ® ) may be given I . V . with the usual precautions and serial blood pressure monitoring .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , hemodialysis , or exchange transfusion may be lifesaving .
Hypoprothrombinemia should be treated with Vitamin K , intravenously .
Up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose can often be obtained from a Certified Regional Poison Control Center .
Telephone numbers of Certified Regional Poison Control Centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ® .
Toxic and Lethal Doses ( for adults ) Butalbital : toxic dose 1 g ( 20 capsules ) Aspirin : toxic blood level greater than 30 mg / 100 mL ; lethal dose 10 - 30 g Caffeine : toxic dose 1 g ( 25 capsules ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One or 2 capsules every 4 hours .
Total daily dose should not exceed 6 capsules .
Extended and repeated use of this product is not recommended because of the potential for physical dependence .
HOW SUPPLIED Butalbital , Aspirin , and Caffeine Capsules , USP Green cap with a yellow body .
Cap is imprinted with “ WATSON ” in red .
Body is imprinted with “ 3219 ” in red .
Bottles of 100 are supplied with child - resistant closures .
Store and Dispense Below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; tight container .
Protect from moisture .
Rx only Address medical inquiries to : WATSON Medical Communications P . O . Box 1953 Morristown , NJ 07962 - 1953 800 - 272 - 5525 Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Revised : June 2009 190110 S0609 PACKAGE LABEL BUTAL - ASP - CAF LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
