DESCRIPTION MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppositories are white to off - white suppositories , each containing the antifungal agent , miconazole nitrate , 1 - [ 2 , 4 - Dichloro - β - [ ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl ) oxy ] phenethyl ] - imidazole mononitrate , 200 mg , in a hydrogenated vegetable oil base .
Miconazole nitrate for vaginal use is also available as MONISTAT 7 Vaginal Cream and MONISTAT 7 Vaginal Suppositories .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Miconazole nitrate exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against species of the genus Candida .
The pharmacologic mode of action is unknown .
Following intravaginal administration of miconazole nitrate , small amounts are absorbed .
Administration of a single dose of miconazole nitrate suppositories ( 100 mg ) to healthy subjects resulted in a total recovery from the urine and feces of 0 . 85 % ( ± 0 . 43 % ) of the administered dose .
Animal studies indicate that the drug crossed the placenta and doses above those used in humans result in embryo - and fetotoxicity ( 80 mg / kg , orally ) , although this has not been reported in human subjects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
In multi - center clinical trials in 440 women with vulvovaginal candidiasis , the efficacy of treatment with the MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppository for 3 days was compared with treatment for 7 days with MONISTAT 7 Vaginal Cream .
The clinical cure rates ( free of microbiological evidence and clinical signs and symptoms of candidiasis at 8 – 10 days and 30 – 35 days post - therapy ) were numerically lower , although statistically different , with the 3 - Day Suppository when compared with the 7 - Day Cream .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppositories are indicated for the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( moniliasis ) .
Effectiveness in pregnancy and in diabetic patients has not been established .
As MONISTAT is effective only for candidal vulvovaginitis , the diagnosis should be confirmed by KOH smear and / or cultures .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis ( Trichomonas and Haemophilus vaginalis [ Gardnerella ] ) should be ruled out by appropriate laboratory methods .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients known to be hypersensitive to this drug .
PRECAUTIONS General Discontinue drug if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
The base contained in the suppository formulation may interact with certain latex products , such as that used in vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Concurrent use is not recommended .
MONISTAT 7 Vaginal Cream may be considered for use under these conditions .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of response to MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppositories , appropriate microbiological studies ( standard KOH smear and / or cultures ) should be repeated to confirm the diagnosis and rule out other pathogens .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
Fertility ( Reproduction ) Oral administration of miconazole nitrate in rats has been reported to produce prolonged gestation .
However , this effect was not observed in oral rabbit studies .
In addition , signs of fetal and embryo toxicity were reported in rat and rabbit studies , and dystocia was reported in rat studies after oral doses at and above 80 mg per kg .
Intravaginal administration did not produce these effects in rats .
Pregnancy Since imidazoles are absorbed in small amounts from the human vagina , they should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless the physician considers it essential to the welfare of the patient .
Clinical studies , during which miconazole nitrate vaginal cream and suppositories were used for up to 14 days , were reported to include 514 pregnant patients .
Follow - up reports available in 471 of these patients reveal no adverse effects or complications attributable to miconazole nitrate therapy in infants born to these women .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether miconazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when miconazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical studies with MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppository ( miconazole nitrate , 200 mg ) 301 patients were treated .
The incidence of vulvovaginal burning , itching or irritation was 2 % .
Complaints of cramping ( 2 % ) and headaches ( 1 . 3 % ) were also reported .
Other complaints ( hives , skin rash ) occurred with less than a 0 . 5 % incidence .
The therapy - related dropout rate was 0 . 3 % .
OVERDOSE Overdosage of miconazole nitrate in humans has not been reported to date .
In mice , rats , guinea pigs and dogs , the oral LD 50 values were found to be 578 . 1 , > 640 , 275 . 9 and > 160 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION MONISTAT 3 Vaginal Suppositories : One suppository ( miconazole nitrate , 200 mg ) is inserted intravaginally once daily at bedtime for three consecutive days .
Before prescribing another course of therapy , the diagnosis should be reconfirmed by smears and / or cultures to rule out other pathogens .
HOW SUPPLIED MONISTAT 3 Suppositories ( miconazole nitrate , 200 mg ) are available as 2 . 5 gm elliptically shaped white to off - white suppositories in packages of three ( NDC 0062 - 5437 - 01 ) with a vaginal applicator .
Store at 59 – 86 ° F ( 15 – 30 ° C ) .
ORTHO PHARMACEUTICAL CORPORATION Raritan , New Jersey 08869 © OPC 1984 PRINTED IN USA REV OCT . 1996 643 - 10 - 353 - 5
