Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 8 / 2014 Contraindications ( 4 ) 8 / 2014 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 ) 8 / 2014 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ropinirole extended - release tablets are non - ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease ( 1 . 1 ) 1 . 1 Parkinson ' s Disease Ropinirole extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Ropinirole extended - release tablets are taken once daily , with or without food ; tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed , crushed , or divided ( 2 . 1 ) • The recommended starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks ; the dose should be increased by 2 mg / day at 1 week or longer intervals ; the maximum dose is 24 mg / day ( 2 . 2 , 14 . 2 ) • Renal Impairment : In patients with end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis , the maximum recommended dose is 18 mg / day ( 2 . 2 ) • If ropinirole extended - release tablets must be discontinued , it should be tapered gradually over a 7 - day period ; retitration of ropinirole extended - release tablets may be warranted if therapy is interrupted ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) • Patients may be switched directly from immediate - release ropinirole to ropinirole extended - release tablets ; the initial switching dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of immediate - release ropinirole .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Recommendations · Ropinirole extended - release tablets are taken once daily , with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
· Tablets must be swallowed whole and must not be chewed , crushed , or divided .
· If a significant interruption in therapy with ropinirole extended - release tablets has occurred , retitration of therapy may be warranted .
2 . 2 Dosing for Parkinson ' s Disease The starting dose is 2 mg taken once daily for 1 to 2 weeks , followed by increases of 2 mg / day at 1 - week or longer intervals as appropriate , based on therapeutic response and tolerability .
The maximum recommended dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets is 24 mg / day .
In clinical trials , dosage was initiated at 2 mg / day and gradually titrated based on individual patient therapeutic response and tolerability .
Doses greater than 24 mg / day have not been studied in clinical trials .
Patients should be assessed for therapeutic response and tolerability at a minimal interval of 1 week or longer after each dose increment .
Monitor patients during dose titration because too rapid a rate of titration may lead to dose selection that may not provide additional benefit , but that may increase the risk of adverse reactions [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Due to the flexible dosing design used in clinical trials , specific dose - response information could not be determined .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets should be discontinued gradually over a 7 - day period .
Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL / min ) .
The recommended initial dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets for patients with end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis is 2 mg once daily .
Further dose escalations should be based on tolerability and need for efficacy .
The recommended maximum total daily dose is 18 mg / day in patients receiving regular dialysis .
Supplemental doses after dialysis are not required .
The use of ropinirole extended - release tablets in patients with severe renal impairment without regular dialysis has not been studied .
2 . 3 Switching from Immediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets to Extended - Release Ropinirole Tablets Patients may be switched directly from immediate - release ropinirole to extended - release ropinirole tablets .
The initial dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets should most closely match the total daily dose of the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets , as shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Conversion from Immediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets to Extended - Release Ropinirole Tablets Immediate - Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose ( mg ) Extended - Release Ropinirole Tablets Total Daily Dose ( mg ) 0 . 75 to 2 . 25 2 3 to 4 . 5 4 6 6 7 . 5 to 9 8 12 12 15 16 18 18 21 20 24 24 Following conversion to ropinirole extended - release tablets , the dose may be adjusted depending on therapeutic response and tolerability [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 4 Effect of Gastrointestinal Transit Time on Medication Release Ropinirole extended - release tablets are designed to release medication over a 24 - hour period .
If rapid gastrointestinal transit occurs , there may be risk of incomplete release of medication and medication residue being passed in the stool .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 2 mg , pink , capsule shaped , film coated tablet , debossed with ‘ L191 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
• 4 mg , light brown , capsule shaped , film coated tablet , debossed with ‘ L193 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
• 6 mg , white to off white , capsule shaped , film coated tablet , debossed with ‘ L321 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
• 8 mg , dark brown to red , capsule shaped , film coated tablet , debossed with ‘ L194 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
• 12 mg , light green , capsule shaped , film coated tablet , debossed with ‘ L195 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
Tablets : 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , and 12 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ropinirole extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients known to have a hypersensitivity / allergic reaction including urticaria , angioedema , rash , pruritus ) to ropinirole or any of the excipients .
History of hypersensitivity / allergic reaction ( including urticaria , angioedema , rash , pruritus ) to ropinirole or to any of the excipients ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Sudden onset of sleep and somnolence may occur ( 5 . 1 ) • Syncope may occur ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypotension , including orthostatic hypotension may occur ( 5 . 3 ) • Elevation of blood pressure and changes in heart rate may occur ( 5 . 4 ) • May cause hallucinations and psychotic - like behaviors ( 5 . 5 ) • May cause or exacerbate dyskinesia ( 5 . 6 ) • May cause problems with impulse control or compulsive behaviors ( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Falling Asleep during Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients treated with ropinirole have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living , including driving or operating machinary , which sometimes resulted in accidents .
Although many of these patients reported somnolence while on ropinirole , some perceived that they had no warning signs such as excessive drowsiness , and believed that they were alert immediately prior to the event .
Some have reported these events more than 1 year after initiation of treatment .
Among the 613 patients who received ropinirole extended - release tablets in clinical trials , there were 5 cases of sudden onset of sleep and 2 cases of motor vehicle accident in which it is not known if falling asleep was a contributing factor .
During the 6 - month trial in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , somnolence was reported in 7 % of patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets compared with 4 % of patients receiving placebo .
During the 36 - week trial in early Parkinson ’ s disease , somnolence was reported in 11 % of patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets compared with 15 % of patients receiving the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
However , because dose - response was not systematically studied with ropinirole extended - release tablets , the occurrence of somnolence at the highest recommended doses may be higher than these reported frequencies [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
It has been reported that falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living usually occurs in a setting of preexisting somnolence , although patients may not give such a history .
For this reason , prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness , especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment .
Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities .
Before initiating treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets , patients should be advised of the potential to develop drowsiness and specifically asked about factors that may increase the risk with ropinirole extended - release tablets such as concomitant sedating medications , the presence of sleep disorders , and concomitant medications that increase ropinirole plasma levels ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
If a patient develops significant daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation ( e . g . , driving a motor vehicle , conversations , eating ) , ropinirole extended - release tablets should ordinarily be discontinued [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
If a decision is made to continue ropinirole extended - release tablets , patients should be advised to not drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities .
There is insufficient information to establish that dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
5 . 2 Syncope Syncope , sometimes associated with bradycardia , was observed in association with ropinirole extended - release tablets in Parkinson ’ s disease patients .
In a placebo - controlled trial involving patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , syncope occurred in 2 of the 202 patients ( 1 % ) who received ropinirole extended - release tablets , and in none of the 191 patients who received placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Because the trial of ropinirole extended - release tablets excluded patients with significant cardiovascular disease , patients with significant cardiovascular disease should be treated with caution .
5 . 3 Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension Dopamine agonists , in clinical trials and clinical experience , appear to impair the systemic regulation of blood pressure , with resulting orthostatic hypotension , especially during dose escalation .
In addition , patients with Parkinson ’ s disease appear to have an impaired capacity to respond to a postural challenge .
For these reasons , patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of orthostatic hypotension , especially during dose escalation , and patients should be informed of the risk for syncope and hypotension [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
In a placebo - controlled trial involving patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , hypotension was reported as an adverse event in 5 of 202 patients ( 2 % ) receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets and in none of the 191 patients receiving placebo .
Orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse event in 5 % of patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets , and in 1 % of placebo recipients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
An analysis of the randomized , double - blinded , placebo - controlled trial in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease was conducted using a variety of adverse event terms possibly suggestive of hypotension , including hypotension , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , vertigo , and blood pressure decreased .
This analysis showed a higher incidence of these events with ropinirole extended - release tablets ( 7 % , 15 of 202 ) vs . placebo ( 3 % , 6 of 191 ) .
The increased incidence with ropinirole extended - release tablets was observed in a setting in which patients were very carefully titrated , and patients with clinically relevant cardiovascular disease or symptomatic orthostatic hypotension at baseline had been excluded from this trial .
Orthostatic vital signs ( semi - supine to standing ) were monitored throughout the advanced Parkinson ’ s disease trial and changes related to ropinirole extended - release tablets ( compared with placebo ) from baseline were assessed .
The frequency of orthostatic hypotension at any time during the trial was 38 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 31 % for placebo for mild to moderate systolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) , 63 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 58 % for placebo for mild - to - moderate diastolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 10 mm Hg ) , 10 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 7 % for placebo for severe diastolic blood pressure decrements ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) , and 23 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 19 % for placebo for mild - to - moderate combined systolic and diastolic blood pressure decrements .
Significant decrements in blood pressure unrelated to standing were also reported in some patients taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 10 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 8 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure decrease ( ≥ 40 mm Hg ) , and was 25 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 21 % for placebo for severe diastolic blood pressure decrease ( ≥ 20 mm Hg ) .
The increased incidence for hypotension and / or orthostatic hypotension was observed in both the titration and maintenance phases and in some cases persisted into the maintenance period after developing in the titration phase .
5 . 4 Elevation of Blood Pressure and Changes in Heart Rate In the placebo - controlled trial in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , there were no clear effects of ropinirole extended - release tablets on average changes in blood pressure or heart rate compared with placebo .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 8 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 5 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure increase ( ≥ 40 mm Hg ) .
In the standing position , the frequency was 9 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 6 % for placebo for severe systolic blood pressure increase ≥ 40 mm Hg ) .
In the semi - supine position , the frequency was 23 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 18 % for placebo for moderate pulse increase ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) , and 19 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 17 % for placebo for moderate pulse decrease ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) .
In the standing position , the frequency was 2 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . < 1 % for placebo for severe pulse increase ( ≥ 30 beats / minute ) , and 24 % for ropinirole extended - release tablets vs . 19 % for placebo for moderate pulse decrease ( ≥ 15 beats / minute ) .
The increased incidence for various elevations of systolic and / or diastolic blood pressure and / or changes in pulse was observed in both the titration and maintenance phases as well as persisting into the maintenance period after developing in the titration phase .
Elevation of blood pressure and / or changes in heart rate in patients taking ropinirole extended - release tablets should be considered when treating patients with cardiovascular disease .
5 . 5 Hallucinations / Psychotic - like Behavior In the double - blind , placebo - controlled , advanced Parkinson ’ s disease trial 8 % ( 17 of 202 ) of patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets reported hallucination compared with 2 % ( 4 of 191 ) patients receiving placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Hallucination led to discontinuation of treatment in 2 % ( 4 of 202 ) of patients on ropinirole extended - release tablets and 1 % ( 2 of 191 ) of patients on placebo .
The incidence of hallucination is increased in elderly patients ( i . e . , older than 65 years ) treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes , which may be severe , including psychotic - like behavior during treatment with ropinirole or after starting or increasing the dose of ropinirole .
Other drugs prescribed to improve the symptoms of Parkinson ’ s disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior .
This abnormal thinking and behavior can consist of one or more of a variety of manifestations including paranoid ideation , delusions , hallucinations , confusion , psychotic - like behavior , disorientation , aggressive behavior , agitation , and delirium .
Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets because of the risk of exacerbating the psychosis .
In addition , certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson ’ s disease and may decrease the effectiveness of ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Dyskinesia Ropinirole extended - release tablets may potentiate the dopaminergic side effects of L - dopa and may cause and / or exacerbate pre - existing dyskinesia in patients treated with L - dopa for Parkinson ’ s disease .
In the double - blind , placebo - controlled trial in patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease dyskinesia was reported as an adverse event in 13 % of patients taking ropinirole extended - release tablets and 3 % of patients on placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Decreasing the dose of a dopaminergic drug may ameliorate this side effect .
5 . 7 Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors Case reports suggest that patients can experience intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , intense urges to spend money , binge or compulsive eating , and / or other intense urges , and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications , including ropinirole extended - release tablets , that increase central dopaminergic tone and that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease .
In some cases , although not all , these urges were reported to have stopped when the dose was reduced or the medication was discontinued .
Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal , it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges , uncontrolled spending , binge or compulsive eating , or other urges while being treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
5 . 8 Withdrawal - emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion A symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( characterized by elevated temperature , muscular rigidity , altered consciousness , and autonomic instability ) , with no other obvious etiology , has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction , withdrawal of , or changes in dopaminergic therapy .
Therefore , it is recommended that the dose be tapered at the end of treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets as a prophylactic measure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 9 Melanoma Epidemiological studies have shown that patients with Parkinson ’ s disease have a higher risk ( 2 to approximately 6 - fold higher ) of developing melanoma than the general population .
Whether the increased risk observed was due to Parkinson ’ s disease or other factors , such as drugs used to treat Parkinson ’ s disease , is unclear .
In the clinical development program ( N = 613 ) , one patient treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets and also levodopa / carbidopa developed melanoma .
For the reasons stated above , patients and providers are advised to monitor for melanomas frequently and on a regular basis when using ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Ideally , periodic skin examinations should be performed by appropriately qualified individuals ( e . g . , dermatologists ) .
5 . 10 Fibrotic Complications Cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis , pulmonary infiltrates , pleural effusion , pleural thickening , pericarditis , and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in some patients treated with ergot - derived dopaminergic agents .
While these complications may resolve when the drug is discontinued , complete resolution does not always occur .
Although these adverse reactions are believed to be related to the ergoline structure of these compounds , whether other , non - ergot - derived dopamine agonists , such as ropinirole , can cause them is unknown .
Cases of possible fibrotic complications , including pleural effusion , pleural fibrosis , interstitial lung disease , and cardiac valvulopathy have been reported in the development program and postmarketing experience for ropinirole .
In the clinical development program ( N = 613 ) , 2 patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets had pleural effusion .
While the evidence is not sufficient to establish a causal relationship between ropinirole and these fibrotic complications , a contribution of ropinirole cannot be excluded .
5 . 11 Retinal Pathology Retinal degeneration was observed in albino rats in the 2 - year carcinogenicity study at all doses tested ( equivalent to 0 . 6 to 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 24 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) , but was statistically significant at the highest dose ( 50 mg / kg / day ) .
Retinal degeneration was not observed in a 3 - month study in pigmented rats , in a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in albino mice , or in 1 - year studies in monkeys or albino rats .
The significance of this effect for humans has not been established , but involves disruption of a mechanism that is universally present in vertebrates ( e . g . , disk shedding ) .
Ocular electroretinogram ( ERG ) assessments were conducted during a 2 - year , double - blind , multicenter , flexible - dose , L - dopa - controlled clinical trial of immediate - release ropinirole in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease ; 156 patients ( 78 on immediate - release ropinirole , mean dose : 11 . 9 mg / day and 78 on L - dopa , mean dose : 555 . 2 mg / day ) were evaluated for evidence of retinal dysfunction through electroretinograms .
There was no clinically meaningful difference between the treatment groups in retinal function over the duration of the trial .
5 . 12 Binding to Melanin Ropinirole binds to melanin - containing tissues ( i . e . , eyes , skin ) in pigmented rats .
After a single dose , long - term retention of drug was demonstrated , with a half - life in the eye of 20 days .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described in more detail in other sections of the label : · Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] · Falling Asleep during Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] · Syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] · Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] · Elevation of Blood Pressure and Changes in Heart Rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] · Hallucinations / Psychotic - like Behavior [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] · Dyskinesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] · Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] · Withdrawal - emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] · Melanoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] · Fibrotic Complications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] · Most common adverse reactions ( incidence for ropinirole extended - release tablets at least 5 % greater than placebo ) in advanced Parkinson ’ s disease with concomitant L - dopa were dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness , hallucination .
( 6 . 1 ) · Most common adverse reactions ( incidence incidence for ropinirole extended - release tablets at least 5 % ) in early Parkinson ’ s disease without L - dopa were nausea , somnolence , abdominal pain / discomfort , dizziness , headache , and constipation ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug ( or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug ) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During the premarketing development of ropinirole extended - release tablets , patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease received ropinirole extended - release tablets or placebo as adjunctive therapy in 1 clinical trial .
In a second trial , patients with early Parkinson ’ s disease were treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets or the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets without L - dopa .
Advanced Parkinson ’ s Disease ( with L - dopa ) In the 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial for the treatment of advanced Parkinson ’ s disease , the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets ( incidence at least 5 % greater than placebo ) were dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness and hallucination .
Approximately 6 % of patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions compared with 5 % of patients who received placebo .
The most common adverse reaction in patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets causing discontinuation of treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets was hallucination ( 2 % ) Table 2 lists treatment - emergent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % ( and were numerically greater than placebo ) of patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets who participated in the 26 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial .
In this trial , either ropinirole extended - release tablets or placebo was used as an adjunct to L - dopa .
Table 2 .
Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reaction Incidence in a Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Trial in Advanced Stage Parkinson ’ s Disease ( With L - dopa ) ( Events ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with Ropinirole Extended - Release Tabletsand > % with Placebo ) a Body System / Adverse Reaction Ropinirole Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 202 ) % Placebo ( n = 191 ) % Ear and labyrinth disorders Vertigo 4 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Nausea 11 4 Constipation 4 2 Abdominal pain / discomfort 6 3 Diarrhea 3 2 Dry mouth 2 < 1 General disorders Edema peripheral 4 1 Injury , poisoning , and procedural complication Fall * 2 1 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 3 2 Nervous system disorders Dyskinesiab 13 3 Dizziness 8 3 Somnolence 7 4 Psychiatric disorders Hallucination 8 2 Anxiety 2 1 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 5 1 Hypotension 2 0 Hypertensionb 3 2 aPatients may have reported multiple adverse reactions during the trial or at discontinuation ; thus , patients may be included in more than one category .
bDose - related .
Although this trial was not designed for optimally characterizing dose - related adverse reactions , there was a suggestion ( based upon comparison of incidence of adverse reactions across dose ranges for ropinirole extended - release tablets and placebo ) that the incidence for dyskinesia , hypertension , and fall was dose - related to ropinirole extended - release tablets .
The incidence for many adverse reactions with ropinirole extended - release tablets treatment was increased relative to placebo ( i . e . , the incidence in the group receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets was 2 % or greater than placebo in either the titration or maintenance phases of the trial .
During the titration phase , an increased incidence ( shown in descending order of % treatment difference ) was observed for dyskinesia , nausea , abdominal pain / discomfort , orthostatic hypotension , dizziness , vertigo , hypertension , peripheral edema , and dry mouth .
During the maintenance phase , an increased incidence was observed for dyskinesia , nausea , dizziness , hallucination , somnolence , fall , hypertension , abnormal dreams , constipation , chest pain , bronchitis , and nasopharyngitis .
Some adverse reactions developing in the titration phase persisted ( ³ 7 days ) into the maintenance phase .
These “ persistent ” adverse reactions included dyskinesia , hallucination , orthostatic hypotension , and dry mouth .
The incidence of adverse reactions was not clearly different between women and men .
Early Parkinson ’ s Disease ( without L - dopa ) In the 36 – week early Parkinson ’ s disease trial the most commonly observed adverse reactions in patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets ( ≥ 5 % ) were nausea ( 19 % ) , somnolence ( 11 % ) , abdominal pain / discomfort ( 7 % ) , dizziness ( 6 % ) , headache ( 6 % ) , and constipation ( 5 % ) .
The type of adverse reactions and the frequency ( i . e . incidence ) with which they occurred were generally similar over the whole treatment period in this trial of early Parkinson ’ s disease patients who were initially treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets or the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets and subsequently crossed over to treatment with the other formulation .
During the titration phase , an increased incidence with ropinirole extended - release tablets compared with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets ( i . e . , the incidence in ropinirole extended - release tablets was 2 % or greater than immediate - release ropinirole tablets ) , shown in descending order of % treatment difference , was observed for : constipation , hallucination , vertigo , abdominal pain / discomfort , nausea , vomiting , fall , headache , diarrhea , pyrexia , and flatulence .
During the maintenance phase , an increased incidence was observed for fall , myalgia , and sleep disorder .
Several adverse reactions developing in the titration phase persisted ( ³ 7 days ) into the maintenance phase .
These “ persistent ” adverse reactions included : constipation , hallucination , muscle spasms , flatulence , insomnia , sleep disorder , abdominal pain / discomfort , cough , and nasopharyngitis .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions Observed during the Clinical Development of the Immediate - release Formulation of Ropinirole Tablets for Parkinson ' s Disease ( Advanced and Early ) Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug ( or of another development program of a different formulation of the same drug ) and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease who were treated with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets , the most common adverse reactions ( ³ 5 % treatment difference from placebo ; presented in order of decreasing treatment difference frequency ) were dyskinesia ( 21 % ) , somnolence ( 12 % ) , nausea ( 12 % ) , dizziness ( 10 % ) , confusion ( 7 % ) , hallucinations ( 6 % ) , headache ( 5 % ) , and increased sweating ( 5 % ) .
In patients with early Parkinson ’ s disease who were treated with the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets , the most common adverse reactions ( ³ 5 % treatment difference from placebo ; presented in order of decreasing treatment difference frequency ) were nausea ( 38 % ) , somnolence ( 34 % ) , dizziness ( 18 % ) , syncope ( 11 % ) , asthenic condition ( 11 % ) , viral infection ( 8 % ) , leg edema ( 6 % ) , vomiting ( 5 % ) , and dyspepsia ( 5 % ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Inhibitors or inducers of CYP1A2 : May alter the clearance of ropinirole ; dose adjustment may be required ( 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) : Starting or stopping HRT treatment may require dose adjustment of ropinirole extended - release tablets ( 7 . 2 , 12 . 3 ) • Dopamine antagonists ( e . g . , neuroleptics metoclopramide ) : May reduce efficacy of ropinirole extended - release tablets ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 CYP1A2 Inhibitors and Inducers In vitro metabolism studies showed that CYP1A2 is the major enzyme responsible for the metabolism of ropinirole .
There is thus the potential for inducers or inhibitors of this enzyme to alter the clearance of ropinirole .
Therefore , if therapy with a drug known to be a potent inducer or inhibitor of CYP1A2 is stopped or started during treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets , adjustment of the dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets may be required .
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin , an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , with immediate - release ropinirole increases the AUC and Cmax of ropinirole [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Cigarette smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Estrogens Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that higher doses of estrogens ( usually associated with hormone replacement therapy [ HRT ] ) reduced the clearance of ropinirole .
Starting or stopping HRT may require adjustment of dosage of ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Dopamine Antagonists Because ropinirole is a dopamine agonist , it is possible that dopamine antagonists such as neuroleptics ( e . g . , phenothiazines , butyrophenones , thioxanthenes ) or metoclopramide may reduce the efficacy of ropinirole extended - release tablets .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , ropinirole has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo - fetal development , including teratogenic effects .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral treatment of pregnant rats with ropinirole during organogenesis resulted in decreased fetal body weight , increased fetal death , and digital malformations at 24 , 36 , and 60 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for Parkinson ’ s disease ( 24 mg / day ) on a mg / m2 basis .
The combined oral administration of ropinirole at 8 times the MRHD and a clinically relevant dose of L - dopa to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis produced a greater incidence and severity of fetal malformations ( primarily digit defects ) than were seen in the offspring of rabbits treated with L - dopa alone .
No effect on fetal development was observed in rabbits when ropinirole was administered alone at an oral dose 16 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
In a perinatal - postnatal study in rats , impaired growth and development of nursing offspring and altered neurological development of female offspring were observed when dams were treated with 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Ropinirole inhibits prolactin secretion in humans and could potentially inhibit lactation .
Ropinirole has been detected in rat milk .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ropinirole is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Dose adjustment is not necessary in elderly ( 65 years and older ) patients , as the dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets is individually titrated to clinical therapeutic response and tolerability .
Pharmacokinetic trials conducted in patients demonstrated that oral clearance of ropinirole is reduced by 15 % in patients above 65 years compared with younger patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In clinical trials of ropinirole extended - release tablets for Parkinson ’ s disease , 387 patients were 65 years and older and 107 were 75 and older .
Among patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets , hallucination was more common in elderly patients ( 10 % ) compared with non - elderly patients ( 2 % ) .
The incidence of overall adverse reactions increased with increasing age for both patients receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets and placebo .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL / min ) .
For patients with end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis , a reduced maximum dose is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The use of ropinirole extended - release tablets in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) without regular dialysis has not been studied .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdose with ropinirole are generally related to its dopaminergic activity .
General supportive measures are recommended .
Vital signs should be maintained , if necessary .
In the Parkinson ’ s disease program , there have been patients who accidentally or intentionally took more than their prescribed dose of ropinirole .
The largest overdose reported with immediate - release ropinirole in clinical trials was 435 mg taken over a 7 - day period ( 62 . 1 mg / day ) .
Of patients who received a dose greater than 24 mg / day , reported symptoms included adverse events commonly reported during dopaminergic therapy ( nausea , dizziness ) , as well as visual hallucinations , hyperhidrosis , claustrophobia , chorea , palpitations , asthenia , and nightmares .
Additional symptoms reported for doses of 24 mg or less or for overdoses of unknown amount included vomiting , increased coughing , fatigue , syncope , vasovagal syncope , dyskinesia , agitation , chest pain , orthostatic hypotension , somnolence , and confusional state .
11 DESCRIPTION Ropinirole extended - release tablets contains ropinirole , a non - ergoline dopamine agonist as the hydrochloride salt .
The chemical name of ropinirole hydrochloride is 4 - [ 2 - ( dipropylamino ) ethyl ] - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 2 H - indol - 2 - one and the empirical formula is C16H24N2O • HCl .
The molecular weight is 296 . 84 ( 260 . 38 as the free base ) .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ropinirole hydrochloride is a white to yellow solid with a melting range of 243 ° to 250 ° C and a solubility of 133 mg / mL in water .
Each capsule shaped , film coated tablet contains 2 . 28 mg , 4 . 56 mg , 6 . 84 mg , 9 . 12 mg , or 13 . 68 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to ropinirole 2 mg , 4 mg , 6 mg , 8 mg , or 12 mg , respectively .
Inactive ingredients consist of carboxymethylcellulose sodium , colloidal silicon dioxide , hydrogenated castor oil , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , povidone , pregelatinized starch , ethylcellulose and one or more of the following : FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , ferric oxides ( black , red , yellow ) , polyethylene glycol 6000 , polyethylene glycol 8000 , titanium dioxide , talc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ropinirole is a non - ergoline dopamine agonist .
The precise mechanism of action of ropinirole as a treatment for Parkinson ’ s disease is unknown , although it is thought to be related to its ability to stimulate dopamine D2 - type receptors within the caudate - putamen in the brain .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical experience with dopamine agonists , including ropinirole , suggests an association with impaired ability to regulate blood pressure with resulting orthostatic hypotension , especially during dose escalation .
In some subjects in clinical trials , blood pressure changes were associated with the emergence of orthostatic symptoms , bradycardia , and , in one case in a healthy volunteer , transient sinus arrest with syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
The mechanism of orthostatic hypotension induced by ropinirole is presumed to be due to a D2 - mediated blunting of the noradrenergic response to standing and subsequent decrease in peripheral vascular resistance .
Nausea is a common concomitant symptom of orthostatic signs and symptoms .
At oral doses as low as 0 . 2 mg , ropinirole suppressed serum prolactin concentrations in healthy male volunteers .
Immediate - release ropinirole had no dose - related effect on ECG wave form and rhythm in young , healthy , male volunteers in the range of 0 . 01 to 2 . 5 mg .
Immediate - release ropinirole had no dose - or exposure - related effect on mean QTc intervals in healthy male and female volunteers titrated to doses up to 4 mg / day .
The effect of ropinirole on QTc intervals at higher exposures achieved either due to drug interactions , hepatic impairment , or at higher doses has not been systematically evaluated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Increase in systemic exposure of ropinirole following oral administration of 2 to 12 mg of ropinirole extended - release tablets was approximately dose - proportional .
For ropinirole extended - release tablets , steady - state concentrations of ropinirole are expected to be achieved within 4 days of dosing .
Absorption In clinical trials with immediate - release ropinirole , over 88 % of a radiolabeled dose was recovered in urine , and the absolute bioavailability was 45 % to 55 % , indicating approximately 50 % first - pass effect .
Relative bioavailability of ropinirole extended - release tablets compared with immediate - release tablets was approximately 100 % .
In a repeat - dose trial in subjects with Parkinson ’ s disease using ropinirole extended - release tablets 8 mg , the dose - normalized AUC ( 0 - 24 ) and Cmin for ropinirole extended - release tablets and immediate - release ropinirole were similar .
Dose - normalized Cmax was , on average , 12 % lower for ropinirole extended - release tablets than for the immediate - release formulation and the median time - to - peak concentration was 6 to 10 hours .
In a single - dose trial , administration of ropinirole extended - release tablets to healthy volunteers with food ( i . e . , high - fat meal ) increased AUC by approximately 30 % and Cmax by approximately 44 % , compared with dosing under fasted conditions .
In a repeat - dose trial in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease , food ( i . e . , high - fat meal ) increased AUC by approximately 20 % and Cmax by approximately 44 % ; Tmax was prolonged by 3 hours ( median prolongation ) compared with dosing under fasted conditions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Distribution Ropinirole is widely distributed throughout the body , with an apparent volume of distribution of 7 . 5 L / kg .
It is up to 40 % bound to plasma proteins and has a blood - to - plasma ratio of 1 : 1 .
Metabolism Ropinirole is extensively metabolized by the liver .
The major metabolic pathways are N - despropylation and hydroxylation to form the inactive N - despropyl metabolite and hydroxy metabolites .
The N - despropyl metabolite is converted to carbamyl glucuronide , carboxylic acid , and N - despropyl hydroxy metabolites .
The hydroxy metabolite of ropinirole is rapidly glucuronidated .
In vitro studies indicate that the major cytochrome P450 enzyme involved in the metabolism of ropinirole is CYP1A2 , an enzyme known to be induced by smoking and omeprazole , and inhibited by , for example , fluvoxamine , mexiletine , and the older fluoroquinolones such as ciprofloxacin and norfloxacin .
Elimination The clearance of ropinirole after oral administration to patients is 47 L / hr and its elimination half - life is approximately 6 hours .
Less than 10 % of the administered dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine .
N - despropyl ropinirole is the predominant metabolite found in urine ( 40 % ) , followed by the carboxylic acid metabolite ( 10 % ) , and the glucuronide of the hydroxy metabolite ( 10 % ) .
Drug Interactions Digoxin : Coadministration of immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg three times daily ) with digoxin ( 0 . 125 to 0 . 25 mg once daily ) did not alter the steady - state pharmacokinetics of digoxin in 10 patients .
Theophylline : Administration of theophylline ( 300 mg twice daily , a substrate of CYP1A2 ) did not alter the steady - state pharmacokinetics of immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg three times daily ) in 12 patients with Parkinson ’ s disease .
Immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg three times daily ) did not alter the pharmacokinetics of theophylline ( 5 mg / kg IV ) in 12 patients with Parkinson ’ s disease .
Ciprofloxacin : Coadministration of ciprofloxacin ( 500 mg twice daily ) , an inhibitor of CYP1A2 , with immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg three times daily ) increased ropinirole AUC by 84 % on average and Cmax by 60 % ( n = 12 patients ) .
Estrogens : Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that estrogens ( mainly ethinylestradiol : intake 0 . 6 to 3 mg over 4 - month to 23 - year period ) reduced the oral clearance of ropinirole by 36 % in 16 patients .
L - dopa : Coadministration of carbidopa + L - dopa ( 10 / 100 mg twice daily ) with immediate - release ropinirole ( 2 mg three times daily ) had no effect on the steady - state pharmacokinetics of ropinirole ( n = 28 patients ) .
Oral administration of immediate - release ropinirole 2 mg three times daily increased mean steady - state Cmax of L - dopa by 20 % , but its AUC was unaffected ( n = 23 patients ) .
Commonly Administered Drugs : Population analysis showed that commonly administered drugs , e . g . , selegiline , amantadine , tricyclic antidepressants , benzodiazepines , ibuprofen , thiazides , antihistamines , and anticholinergics , did not affect the clearance of ropinirole .
An in vitro study indicates that ropinirole is not a substrate for P - gp .
Ropinirole and its circulating metabolites do not inhibit or induce P450 enzymes ; therefore , ropinirole is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of other drugs by a P450 mechanism .
Specific Populations Because therapy with ropinirole extended - release tablets is initiated at a low dose and gradually titrated upward according to clinical tolerability to obtain the optimum therapeutic effect , adjustment of the initial dose based on gender , weight , or age is not necessary .
Age : Oral clearance of ropinirole is reduced by 15 % in patients . older than 65 years compared with younger patients .
Dosage adjustment is not necessary in the elderly ( older than 65 years ) , as the dose of ropinirole is to be individually titrated to clinical response .
Gender : Female and male patients showed similar clearance .
Race : The influence of race on the pharmacokinetics of ropinirole has not been evaluated .
Cigarette Smoking : Smoking is expected to increase the clearance of ropinirole since CYP1A2 is known to be induced by smoking .
In a trial in patients with Restless Legs Syndrome , smokers ( n = 7 ) had an approximately 30 % lower Cmax and a 38 % lower AUC than did nonsmokers ( n = 11 ) when those parameters were normalized for dose .
Renal Impairment : Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , no difference was observed in the pharmacokinetics of ropinirole in subjects with moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance between 30 to 50 mL / min ) compared with an age - matched population with creatinine clearance above 50 mL / min .
Therefore , no dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with moderate renal impairment .
A trial of immediate - release ropinirole in subjects with end - stage renal disease on hemodialysis has shown that clearance of ropinirole was reduced by approximately 30 % .
The recommended maximum dose should be lower in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The use of ropinirole in subjects with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) without regular dialysis has not been studied .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of ropinirole have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment ..
Because ropinirole is extensively metabolized by the liver , these patients may have higher plasma levels and lower clearance of ropinirole than patients with normal hepatic function .
Other Diseases : Population pharmacokinetic analysis revealed no change in the clearance of ropinirole in patients with concomitant diseases such as hypertension , depression , osteoporosis / arthritis , and insomnia compared with patients with Parkinson ’ s disease only .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Two - year carcinogenicity studies of ropinirole were conducted in mice at oral doses of 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day and rats at oral doses of 1 . 5 , 15 , and 50 mg / kg / day .
In rats , there was an increase in testicular Leydig cell adenomas at all doses tested .
The lowest dose tested ( 1 . 5 mg / kg / day ) is less than the MRHD for Parkinson ’ s disease ( 24 mg / day ) on a mg / m2 basis .
The endocrine mechanisms believed to be involved in the production of these tumors in rats are not considered relevant to humans .
In mice , there was an increase in benign uterine endometrial polyps at a dose of 50 mg / kg / day .
The highest dose not associated with this finding ( 15 mg / kg / day ) is three times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Ropinirole was not mutagenic or clastogenic in in vitro ( Ames , chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma tk ) assays , or in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility When administered to female rats prior to and during mating and throughout pregnancy , ropinirole caused disruption of implantation at oral doses of 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater .
This effect in rats is thought to be due to the prolactin - lowering effect of ropinirole .
In rat studies using a low oral dose ( 5 mg / kg ) during the prolactin - dependent phase of early pregnancy ( gestation days 0 to 8 ) , ropinirole did not affect female fertility at oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No effect on male fertility was observed in rats at oral doses up to 125 mg / kg / day ( 50 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of ropinirole was initially established with the immediate - release formulation ( ropinirole tablets ) for the treatment of early and advanced Parkinson ’ s disease in three randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials .
The effectiveness of ropinirole extended - release tablets in the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease was supported by two randomized , double - blind , multicenter clinical trials and clinical pharmacokinetic considerations .
One trial conducted in patients with advanced Parkinson ’ s disease compared ropinirole extended - release tablets with placebo as adjunctive therapy to L - dopa .
A second trial compared ropinirole extended - release tablets with ropinirole tablets in patients with early phase Parkinson ’ s disease not receiving L - dopa .
In these trials a variety of measures were used to assess the effects of treatment ( e . g . , Unified Parkinson ’ s Disease Rating Scale [ UPDRS ] scores , patient diaries recording time “ on ” and “ off , ” tolerability of L - dopa dose reductions ) .
The UPDRS is a multi - item rating scale intended to evaluate mentation ( Part I ) , activities of daily living ( Part II ) , motor performance ( Part III ) , and complications of therapy ( Part IV ) .
Part III of the UPDRS contains 14 items designed to assess the severity of the cardinal motor findings in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , bradykinesia , postural instability ) scored for different body regions and has a maximum ( worst ) score of 108 .
14 . 1 Trial in Patients with Advanced Parkinson ' s Disease ( with L - dopa ) The effectiveness of ropinirole extended - release tablets as adjunctive therapy to L - dopa in patients with Parkinson ’ s disease was established in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group , 24 - week clinical trial in 393 patients ( Hoehn & Yahr criteria Stages II - IV ) who were not adequately controlled by L - dopa therapy .
Patients were allowed to be on concomitant selegiline , amantadine , anticholinergics , and catechol - O - methyltransferase ( COMT ) inhibitors provided the doses were stable for at least 4 weeks prior to screening and throughout the trial .
The primary efficacy endpoint evaluated was the mean change from baseline in total awake time spent “ off ” .
Patients in this trial had a mean disease duration of 8 . 6 years , a mean duration of exposure to L - dopa of 6 . 5 years , had experienced a minimum of 3 hours awake time “ off ” with a baseline average of approximately 7 hours awake time “ off ” , and had a mean baseline UPDRS motor score of approximately 30 points with similar mean data in each treatment group .
The mean baseline dose of L - dopa in the group receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets was 824 mg / day and 776 mg / day for the placebo group .
Patients initiated treatment at 2 mg / day for 1 week followed by increases of 2 mg / day at weekly intervals to a minimum dose of 6 mg / day .
The following week , the total daily dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets could be further increased ( based upon therapeutic response and tolerability ) to 8 mg / day .
Once a daily dose of 8 mg / day was reached , the background L - dopa dosage was reduced .
Thereafter , the daily dose could be increased by up to 4 mg / day approximately every 2 weeks until an optimal dose was achieved ( based upon therapeutic response and tolerability ) .
The mean dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets at the end of Week 24 was 18 . 8 mg / day .
Dose titrations were based upon the degree of symptom control , planned L - dopa dosage reduction , and / or tolerability .
The maximum allowed daily dosage for ropinirole extended - release tablets was 24 mg / day .
The primary efficacy endpoint was mean change from baseline in total awake time spent “ off ” at Week 24 .
At baseline the mean total awake time spent “ off ” was approximately 7 hours in each treatment group .
At Week 24 , the total awake time spent “ off ” , on average , had decreased by approximately 2 hours in the group receiving ropinirole extended - release tablets and by approximately half an hour in the placebo group .
The adjusted mean difference in total awake time spent “ off ” between ropinirole extended - release tablets and placebo was - 1 . 7 hours , which was statistically significant ( ANCOVA , P < 0 . 0001 ) .
Results for this endpoint showing the statistical superiority of ropinirole extended - release tablets over placebo are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Change from Baseline in Total Awake Time Spent “ Off ” at Week 24 Ropinirole Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 201 ) Placebo ( n = 190 ) Mean “ off ” time at baseline ( hours ) 7 7 Mean change from baseline in “ off ” time ( hours ) - 2 . 1 - 0 . 4 The difference between groups in favor of ropinirole extended - release tablets , with regard to a decrease in total “ off ” hours , was primarily related to an increase in total “ on ” hours without troublesome dyskinesia .
Patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tabletshad a mean reduction in L - dopa dose of 278 mg / day ( 34 % ) while patients treated with placebo had a mean reduction of 164 mg / day ( 21 % ) .
In patients who reduced their L - dopa dose , reduction was sustained in 93 % of patients treated with ropinirole extended - release tabletsand in 72 % of patients treated with placebo ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
14 . 2 Trial in Patients with Early Parkinson ' s Disease ( without L - dopa ) A 36 - week multicenter , double - blind , titration / 3 - period maintenance , cross - over study compared the efficacy of ropinirole extended - release tabletswith the immediate - release formulation of ropinirole tablets ( IR ) in 161 patients with early phase Parkinson ’ s disease ( Hoehn & Yahr Stages I - III ) with limited prior exposure to L - dopa or dopamine agonists .
Eligible subjects were randomized ( 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ) to 4 treatment sequences ( 2 were titrated on ropinirole tabletsIR and 2 on ropinirole extended - release tablets ) .
Titration rate of ropinirole tablets IR was slower than that of the ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Patients were titrated , during the 12 - week titration period , to their optimal dosage , based upon tolerance and therapeutic response .
This was followed by three consecutive 8 - week maintenance periods , during which patients were either maintained on the prior formulation or switched to the alternative formulation .
All switches were performed overnight by using the approximately equivalent doses of ropinirole .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change of UPDRS motor score within each maintenance period .
Patients in all four groups started out with similar UPDRS motor scores ( about 21 ) at baseline .
All 4 groups exhibited similar improvement in UPDRS total motor scores from baseline until the completion of the titration phase , with a change in score of about - 9 observed for the groups started on ropinirole tabletsIR and of about - 10 for the groups started on ropinirole extended - release tablets .
No difference was observed between groups when switches were made between identical formulations or between different formulations .
This suggests therapeutic dosage equivalence betweenformulations of ropinirole tabletsIR and ropinirole extended - release tabletsformulations .
The optimal daily dose at the end of the titration period for patients on ropinirole tabletsIR was substantially lower ( mean 7 mg ) compared with the dose at the end of the titration period for patients on ropinirole extended - release tablets ( mean 18 mg ) .
In this trial , the marked difference in the final optimal dosages suggests that the higher doses afforded no additional benefit when compared with the lower doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each capsule shaped , film coated tablet contains ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to the labeled amount of ropinirole as follows : 2 mg : pink tablets debossed with ' L191 ' NDC 46708 - 262 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 262 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 46708 - 262 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 262 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708 - 262 - 91 bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 46708 - 262 - 10 carton of 100 ( 10X10 ) unit dose tablets 4 mg : light brown tablets debossed with ' L193 ' NDC 46708 - 263 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 263 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 46708 - 263 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 263 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708 - 263 - 91 bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 46708 - 263 - 10 carton of 100 ( 10X10 ) unit dose tablets 6 mg : white to off white tablets debossed with ' L321 ' NDC 46708 - 264 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 264 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 46708 - 264 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 264 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708 - 264 - 91 bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 46708 - 264 - 10 carton of 100 ( 10X10 ) unit dose tablets 8 mg : dark brown to red tablets debossed with ' L194 ' NDC 46708 - 265 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 265 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 46708 - 265 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 265 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708 - 265 - 91 bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 46708 - 265 - 10 carton of 100 ( 10X10 ) unit dose tablets 12 mg : light green tablets debossed with ' L195 ' NDC 46708 - 266 - 30 bottle of 30 tablets NDC 46708 - 266 - 90 bottle of 90 tablets NDC 46708 - 266 - 31 bottle of 100 tablets NDC 46708 - 266 - 71 bottle of 500 tablets NDC 46708 - 266 - 91 bottle of 1000 tablets NDC 46708 - 266 - 10 carton of 100 ( 10X10 ) unit dose tablets Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advice the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Dosing Instructions • Instruct patients to take ropinirole extended - release tablets only as prescribed .
If a dose is missed , advise patients not to double their next dose .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can be taken with or without food .
Inform patients to swallow ropinirole extended - release tablets whole and not to chew , crush , or divide the tablets [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Ropinirole is the active ingredient in both ropinirole extended - release tablets and ropinirole tablets ( the immediate - release formulation ) .
Ask your patients if they are taking another medication containing ropinirole .
Hypersensitivity / Allergic Reactions Advise patients about the potential for developing a hypersensitivity / allergic reaction including manifestations such as urticaria , angioedema , rash , and pruritus when taking any ropinirole product .
Inform patients who experience these or similar reactions after starting ropinirole tablets or ropinirole extended - release tablets , to immediately contact their healthcare professional [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Falling Asleep during Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Alert patients to the potential sedating effects caused by ropinirole extended - release tablets , including somnolence and the possibility of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
Because somnolence is a frequent adverse reaction with potentially serious consequences , patients should not drive a car , operate machinery , or engage in other potentially dangerous activities until they have gained sufficient experience with ropinirole extended - release tablets to gauge whether or not it affects their mental and / or motor performance adversely .
Advise patients that if increased somnolence or episodes of falling asleep during activities of daily living ( e . g . , conversations , eating , driving a motor vehicle , etc . ) are experienced at any time during treatment , they should not drive or participate in potentially dangerous activities until they have contacted their physician .
Advise patients of possible additive effects when patients are taking other sedating medications , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( e . g . , benzodiazepines , antipsychotics , antidepressants , etc . ) in combination with ropinirole extended - release tablets or when taking a concomitant medication ( e . g . , ciprofloxacin ) that increases plasma levels of ropinirole [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Syncope and Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension Advise patients that they may experience syncope and may develop hypotension with or without symptoms such as dizziness , nausea , syncope , and sometimes sweating while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets , especially if they are elderly .
Hypotension and / or orthostatic symptoms may occur more frequently during initial therapy or with an increase in dose at any time ( cases have been seen after weeks of treatment ) .
Postural / orthostatic symptoms may be related to sitting up or standing .
Accordingly , caution patients against standing rapidly after sitting or lying down , especially if they have been doing so for prolonged periods and especially at the initiation of treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Elevation of Blood Pressure and Changes in Heart Rate Alert patients to the possibility of increases in blood pressure during treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Exacerbation of hypertension may occur .
Medication dose adjustment may be necessary if elevation of blood pressure is sustained over multiple evaluations .
Alert patients with cardiovascular disease , who may not tolerate marked changes in heart rate , to the possibility that they may experience significant increases or decreases in heart rate during treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hallucinations / Psychotic - like Behavior Inform patients that they may experience hallucinations ( unreal visions , sounds , or sensations ) and other psychotic - like behavior can occur while taking ropinirole .
The elderly are at greater risk than younger patients with Parkinson ’ s disease .
This risk is greater in patients who are taking ropinirole with L - dopa or taking higher doses of ropinirole , and may also be further increased in patients taking any other drugs that increase dopaminergic tone .
Tell patients to report hallucinations or psychotic - like behavior to their healthcare provider promptly should they develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Dyskinesia Inform patients that ropinirole extended - release tablets may cause and / or exacerbate pre - existing dyskinesias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors Advise patients that they may experience impulse control and / or compulsive behaviors while taking one or more of the medications ( including ropinirole extended - release tablets ) that increase central dopaminergic tone , that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease .
Advise patients to inform their physician or healthcare provider if they develop new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges , uncontrolled spending , binge or compulsive eating , or other urges while being treated with ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Withdrawal - emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they wish to discontinue ropinirole extended - release tablets or decrease the dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Melanoma Advise patients with Parkinson ’ s disease that they have a higher risk of developing melanoma .
Advise patients to have their skin examined on a regular basis by a qualified healthcare provider ( e . g . , dermatologist ) when using ropinirole extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Nursing Mothers Because of the possibility that ropinirole may be excreted in breast milk , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients that ropinirole extended - release tablets could inhibit lactation because ropinirole inhibits prolactin secretion .
Pregnancy Because ropinirole has been shown to have adverse effects on embryo - fetal development , including teratogenic effects , in animals , and because experience in humans is limited , advice patients to notify their physician if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Patient Information Ropinirole Extended - Release Tablets Important Note : Ropinirole extended - release tablets have not been studied in Restless Legs Syndrome ( RLS ) and are not approved for the treatment of RLS .
However , an immediate - release form of ropinirole is approved for the treatment of moderate to severe primary RLS .
Read this information completely before you start taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Read the information each time you get more medicine .
There may be new information .
This leaflet provides a summary about ropinirole extended - release tablets .
It does not include everything there is to know about your medicine .
This information should not take the place of discussions with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment with ropinirole extended - release tablets .
What is the most important information I should know about ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects including : • Hypersensitivity / allergic reactions .
You may experience a hypersensitivity / allergic reaction characterized by hives , rash , itching , and / or swelling of the face , lips , mouth , tongue , or throat , which may cause problems in swallowing or breathing .
If you experience any of these reactions , you should not take ropinirole extended - release tablets again until you talk to a healthcare provider and seek their advice .
• Falling asleep during normal activities .
You may fall asleep while doing normal activities such as driving a car , doing physical tasks , or using hazardous machinery while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
You may suddenly fall asleep without being drowsy or without warning .
This may result in having accidents .
Your chances of falling asleep while doing normal activities while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets are greater if you take other medicines that cause drowsiness .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if this happens .
Before starting ropinirole extended - release tablets , be sure to tell your healthcare provider if you take any medicines that make you drowsy .
• Fainting .
Fainting can happen , and sometimes your heart rate may be decreased .
This can happen especially when you start taking ropinirole extended - release tablets or your dose is increased .
Tell your healthcare provider if you faint or feel dizzy or light - headed .
• Decrease in blood pressure .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can decrease your blood pressure .
Decreases in your blood pressure ( hypotension ) can happen , especially when you start taking ropinirole extended - release tablets or when your dose is changed .
If you faint or feel dizzy , nauseated , or sweaty when you stand up from sitting or lying down ( orthostatic hypotension ) , this may mean that your blood pressure is decreased .
When you change position from lying down or sitting to standing up , you should do it carefully and slowly .
Call your healthcare provider if you have any of the symptoms of decreased blood pressure listed above .
• Increase in blood pressure .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets may increase your blood pressure .
• Changes in heart rate ( decrease or increase ) .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can decrease or increase your heart rate .
• Hallucinations and other psychotic - like behavior .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can cause or worsen psychotic - like behavior including hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not real ) , confusion , excessive suspicion , aggressive behavior , agitation , delusional beliefs ( believing things that are not real ) , and disorganized thinking .
The chances of having hallucinations or these other psychotic - like changes are higher in people with Parkinson ’ s disease who are taking ropinirole extended - release tablets or taking higher doses of these drugs .
If you have hallucinations or any of these other psychotic - like changes , talk with your healthcare provider .
• Uncontrolled sudden movements .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets may cause uncontrolled sudden movements or make such movements you already have worse or more frequent .
Tell your healthcare provider if this happens .
The doses of your anti - Parkinson ’ s medicines may need to be changed .
• Unusual urges .
Some patients taking ropinirole extended - release tablets get urges to behave in a way unusual for them .
Examples of this are an unusual urge to gamble , increased sexual urges and behaviors , or an uncontrollable urge to shop , spend money , or eat .
If you notice or your family notices that you are developing any unusual behaviors , talk to your healthcare provider .
• Increased chance of skin cancer ( melanoma ) .
People with Parkinson ’ s disease may have a higher chance of getting melanoma .
It is not known if ropinirole extended - release tablets increase your chances of getting melanoma .
You and your healthcare provider should check your skin on a regular basis .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you notice any changes in your skin such as a change in the size , shape , or color of moles on your skin .
What are ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Ropinirole extended - release tablets are long - acting prescription medicine containing ropinirole ( taken 1 time a day ) that is used only to treat Parkinson ’ s disease but not to treat Restless Legs Syndrome ( RLS ) .
Having one of these conditions does not mean you have or will develop the other condition .
You should not be taking more than 1 medicine containing ropinirole .
Tell your healthcare provider if you are taking any other medicine containing ropinirole .
It is not known if ropinirole extended - release tablets are safe and effective for use in children younger than 18 years of age .
Who should not take ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Do not take ropinirole extended - release tablets if you : • are allergic to ropinirole or any of the ingredients in ropinirole extended - release tablets .
See the end of this page for a complete list of the ingredients in ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Call your healthcare provider and get help right away if you have any of the following symptoms of an allergic reaction .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction may include : • hives • rash • swelling of the face , lips , mouth , tongue , or throat • itching What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Before you take ropinirole extended - release tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have daytime sleepiness from a sleep disorder or have unexpected or unpredictable sleepiness or periods of sleep .
• are taking any other prescription or over - the - counter medicines .
Some of these medicines may increase your chances of getting side effects while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
• start or stop taking other medicines while you are taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
This may increase your chances of getting side effects .
• start or stop smoking while you are taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Smoking may decrease the treatment effect of ropinirole extended - release tablets .
• feel dizzy , nauseated , sweaty , or faint when you first stand up from sitting or lying down .
• drink alcoholic beverages .
This may increase your chances of becoming drowsy or sleepy while taking ropinirole extended - release tablets .
• have high or low blood pressure .
• have or have had heart problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Ropinirole extended - release tablets should only be used during pregnancy if needed .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if ropinirole extended - release tablets passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider to decide whether you will breastfeed or take ropinirole extended - release tablets .
• have any other medical conditions .
How should I take ropinirole extended - release tablets for Parkinson ’ s disease ?
• Take ropinirole extended - release tablets exactly as directed by your healthcare provider .
• Do not suddenly stop taking ropinirole extended - release tablets without talking to your healthcare provider .
If you stop this medicine suddenly , you may develop fever , confusion , or severe muscle stiffness .
• Before starting ropinirole extended - release tablets , you should talk to your healthcare provider about what to do if you miss a dose .
If you have missed the previous dose and it is time for your next dose , do not double the dose .
• Your healthcare provider will start you on a low dose of ropinirole extended - release tablets .
Your healthcare provider will change the dose until you are taking the right amount of medicine to control your symptoms .
It may take several weeks before you reach a dose that controls your symptoms .
If you are taking ropinirole extended - release tablets : • Take ropinirole extended - release tablets 1 time each day for Parkinson ’ s disease , preferably at or around the same time of day .
• Swallow ropinirole extended - release tablets whole .
Do not chew , crush , or split ropinirole extended - release tablets .
• Ropinirole extended - release tablets release drug over a 24 - hour period .
If you have a condition where medicine passes through your body too quickly , such as diarrhea , the tablet ( s ) may not dissolve completely and you may see tablet residue in your stool .
If this happens , let your healthcare provider know as soon as possible .
• Contact your healthcare provider if you stop taking ropinirole extended - release tablets for any reason .
Do not restart without talking with your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may prescribe ropinirole extended - release tablets alone , or add ropinirole extended - release tablets to medicine that you are already taking for Parkinson ’ s disease .
• You should not substitute ropinirole extended - release tablets for ropinirole tablets without talking with your healthcare provider .
• You can take ropinirole extended - release tablets with or without food .
What are the possible side effects of ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Ropinirole extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about ropinirole extended - release tablets ? ”
The most common side effects of ropinirole extended - release tablets include : • fainting • sleepiness or drowsiness • hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are not real ) • dizziness • nausea or vomiting • uncontrolled sudden movements • leg swelling • fatigue , tiredness , or weakness • confusion • headache • upset stomach , abdominal pain or discomfort • increased sweating Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
This is not a complete list of side effects and should not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider or pharmacist can give you a more complete list of possible side effects .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
• Store ropinirole extended - release tablets at room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Keep ropinirole extended - release tablets in a tightly closed container and out of direct sunlight .
Keep ropinirole extended - release tablets and all medications out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ropinirole extended - release tablets : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take ropinirole extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ropinirole extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This side of the patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about ropinirole extended - release tablets for Parkinson ’ s disease .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ropinirole extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in ropinirole extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredient : ropinirole ( as ropinirole hydrochloride ) Inactive ingredients : carboxymethylcellulose sodium , colloidal silicon dioxide , hydrogenated castor oil , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , povidone , pregelatinized starch , ethylcellulose and one or more of the following : FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , ferric oxides ( black , red , yellow ) , polyethylene glycol 6000 , polyethylene glycol 8000 , titanium dioxide , talc .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Village Panelav , P . O . Tajpura , Near Baska , Taluka - Halol , Panchmahal , Gujarat , India .
Revised : 01 / 2016 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 mg rOPINIRole Extended - Release Tablets 2 mg * ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) * Each extended - release tablet contains 2 . 28 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 2 mg ropinirole 46708 - 262 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 4 mg rOPINIRole Extended - Release Tablets 4 mg * ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) * Each extended - release tablet contains 4 . 56 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 4 mg ropinirole 46708 - 263 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 mg rOPINIRole Extended - Release Tablets 6 mg * ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) * Each extended - release tablet contains 6 . 84 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 6 mg ropinirole 46708 - 264 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 8 mg rOPINIRole Extended - Release Tablets 8 mg * ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) * Each extended - release tablet contains 9 . 12 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 8 mg ropinirole 46708 - 265 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 mg rOPINIRole Extended - Release Tablets 12 mg * ( 30 Tablets in 1 Bottle ) * Each extended - release tablet contains 13 . 68 mg ropinirole hydrochloride equivalent to 12 mg ropinirole 46708 - 266 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
