Active ingredient Ethanol Inactive ingredient Water Benzalkonium chloride Purpose This product adopts fine particle sterilization device to rapidly remove harmful substances such as bacteria and germs in carpet , ceiling and seat of vehicle , kill bacteria , resist mildew , remove peculiar smell , as well as inhibit the breeding and reproduction of various bacteria while effectively killing bacteria , so as to keep the air in it fresh .
It has excellent stability and long - lasting effects .
When using This product adopts fine particle sterilization device to rapidly remove harmful substances such as bacteria and germs in carpet , ceiling and seat of vehicle , kill bacteria , resist mildew , remove peculiar smell , as well as inhibit the breeding and reproduction of various bacteria while effectively killing bacteria , so as to keep the air in it fresh .
It has excellent stability and long - lasting effects .
Do not use Use only as directed .
Do not use for cases not directed .
Stop use Stop use if the product ' s volatile gases cause discomfort , or if you experience respiratory irritation such as cough , asthma , or difficulty breathing .
Ask doctor If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor .
Ask doctor / pharmacist If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor / pharmacist .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Questions Please contact with us at the phone number + 86 - 10 - 61238999 when you have any questions .
Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage Fully close the vehicle , turn on the air - conditioner and adjust its air volume to the maximum , enable the internal circulation , and use fogging gun to perform fogging in the vehicle .
Dosage & administration Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Dosage forms & strengths This product is spray dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 70 % .
Warnings This product should not be exposed to direct sunlight .
Rather , it should be stored in a dry , ventilated and cool place .
Keep this product out of children ’ s reach as it cannot be swallowed .
Avoid contact with eyes , and if they enter the eye , rinse with plenty of water .
When necessary , seek medical advice .
Do not spray this product onto any electric appliance in the vehicle .
Do not spray this product directly into the air conditioner vent .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
