Active ingredient Ethanol Inactive ingredient Water Benzalkonium chloride Purpose This product is made of biguanide bactericide , quaternary ammonium salt bactericide , surfactants , ethanol and others .
It has a cleaning , sterilization function and can suppress those bacteria including staphylococcus aureus , escherichia coli and candida albicans .
Suitable for the cleaning and antibacteria of the indoor environment , kitchen , bathroom , office facilities , surface of items , vehicle interiors , etc .
This product is non - toxic , non - irritant and no damage to the surface cleaned .
When using This product is made of biguanide bactericide , quaternary ammonium salt bactericide , surfactants , ethanol and others .
It has a cleaning , sterilization function and can suppress those bacteria including staphylococcus aureus , escherichia coli and candida albicans .
Suitable for the cleaning and antibacteria of the indoor environment , kitchen , bathroom , office facilities , surface of items , vehicle interiors , etc .
This product is non - toxic , non - irritant and no damage to the surface cleaned .
Do not use Use only as directed .
Do not use for cases not directed .
Stop use Stop use if the product ' s volatile gases cause discomfort , or if you experience respiratory irritation such as cough , asthma , or difficulty breathing .
Ask doctor If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor .
Ask doctor / pharmacist If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor / pharmacist .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Questions Please contact with us at the phone number + 86 - 10 - 61238999 when you have any questions .
Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage Spray this product on the surface of the objects to be cleaned , and then wipe it with a clean and damp cloth .
Dosage & administration Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Dosage forms & strengths This product is spray dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 70 % .
Warnings 1 .
For leather products , it is recommended to test the small area first and then use it without adverse effects to prevent discoloration .
2 .
Do not store in the car , please keep it in a cool and ventilated environment at the temperature of 0 - 40 ℃ , and avoid too high or too low temperature .
3 .
Keep out of reach of children .
4 .
Rinse eyes with plenty of water immediately if contact with eyes .
If you still feel uncomfortable , please go to see a doctor .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
