Active ingredient Ethanol Inactive ingredient Water Acrylate Purpose Effectively kill intestinal pathogenic bacteria , pyogenic coccus , pathogenic yeast and common pathogenic bacteria in hospital .
When using Effectively kill intestinal pathogenic bacteria , pyogenic coccus , pathogenic yeast and common pathogenic bacteria in hospital .
Do not use Use only as directed .
Do not use for cases not directed .
Stop use Stop use if the product ' s volatile gases cause discomfort , or if you experience respiratory irritation such as cough , asthma , or difficulty breathing .
Ask doctor If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor .
Ask doctor / pharmacist If using the product causes serious discomfort , ask or see your doctor / pharmacist .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
Questions Please contact with us at the phone number + 86 - 10 - 61238999 when you have any questions .
Pregnancy or breast feeding Pregnant or breast feeding women shall follow doctor advice .
Indications & usage 1 .
Hygiene hand disinfection : take an appropriate amount of instant hand sanitizing gel on the palm of your hand , rub your hands for 1 minute .
2 .
Surgical hand disinfection : wash and dry the lower 1 / 3 of the hands , forearms and upper arms with soap or antibacterial hand sanitizer according to the instruction , and then apply 5 - 10 ml of this product evenly to the hands , forearms and lower 1 / 3 of the upper arms .
Rub the skin to dryness and wait for 3 minutes before wearing sterile gloves .
Dosage & administration Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Dosage forms & strengths This product is gel dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 70 % .
Warnings 1 .
For external use and shall not be taken orally ; keep out of reach of children .
2 .
Use with caution if allergic to alcohol ; Seek for timely medical treatment if untoward reaction occurs in the use .
3 .
This product contains alcohol , avoid open flames ; keep tightly closed in a cool place .
4 .
Keep away from the eyes , do not rub the eyes if accidental contact , rinse the eyes thoroughly with water for 15 minutes .
If the situation worsens or irritation continues , seek medical treatment .
Do not induce vomiting if swallow occurs , see medical treatment from hospital or poison control center .
5 .
This product should not be used for damaged skin .
For external use only , avoid entering into the eyes .
Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
