[ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 05 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Nitisinone capsules are indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 ( HT - 1 ) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine .
Nitisinone is a hydroxy - phenylpyruvate dioxygenase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 ( HT - 1 ) in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) : • The recommended starting dosage is 0 . 5 mg / kg orally twice daily .
• Titrate the dosage based on biochemical and / or clinical response , as described in the full prescribing information .
• The maximum total daily dosage is 2 mg / kg orally .
Administration ( 2 . 2 ) : • Maintain dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine • Take Nitisinone capsules at least one hour before , or two hours after a meal • For patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules , the capsules may be opened and the contents suspended in a small amount of water , formula or apple sauce immediately before use .
2 . 1 Dosage Starting Dosage The recommended starting dosage of Nitisinone capsules is 0 . 5 mg / kg administered orally twice daily Dosage Titration Titrate the dosage in each individual patient based on biochemical and / or clinical response .
• Monitor plasma and / or urine succinylacetone concentrations , liver function parameters and alpha - fetoprotein levels .
• If succinylacetone is still detectable in blood or urine 4 weeks after the start of nitisinone treatment , increase the nitisinone dosage to 0 . 75 mg / kg twice daily .
A maximum total daily dosage of 2 mg / kg may be needed based on the evaluation of all biochemical parameters .
• If the biochemical response is satisfactory ( undetectable blood and / or urine succinylacetone ) , the dosage should be adjusted only according to body weight gain and not according to plasma tyrosine levels .
• During initiation of therapy , or if there is a deterioration in the patient ’ s condition , it may be necessary to follow all available biochemical parameters more closely ( i . e . plasma and / or urine succinylacetone , urine 5 - aminolevulinate ( ALA ) and erythrocyte porphobilinogen ( PBG ) - synthase activity ) .
• Maintain plasma tyrosine levels below 500 micromol / L by dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine intake [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In patients who develop plasma tyrosine levels above 500 micromol / L , assess dietary tyrosine and phenylalanine intake .
Do not adjust the nitisinone dosage in order to lower the plasma tyrosine concentration .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB PUBL ’ s ORFADIN ( nitisinone ) capsules .
However , due to Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB PUBL ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
2 . 2 Administration Administration of Nitisinone Capsules : • Maintain dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine when taking nitisinone .
• Capsules : Take at least one hour before , or two hours after a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
For patients who have difficulty swallowing the capsules , the capsules may be opened and the contents suspended in a small amount of water , formula or apple sauce immediately before use .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Nitisinone Capsules are available as : 2 mg : White Opaque Hard gelatin capsule shell Size # 3 , imprinted with black ink as " 008 " on cap and " Novitium 2 mg " on body , filled with white to off white powder blend .
5 mg : White Opaque Hard gelatin capsule shell Size # 3 , imprinted with black ink as " 009 " on cap and " Novitium 5 mg " on body , filled with white to off white powder blend .
10 mg : White Opaque Hard gelatin capsule shell Size # 3 , imprinted with black ink as " 010 " on cap and " Novitium 10 mg " on body , filled with white to off white powder blend .
Capsules : 2 mg , 5 mg , 10 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Elevated Plasma Tyrosine Levels , Ocular Symptoms , Developmental Delay and Hyperkeratotic Plaques : Inadequate restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine intake can lead to elevations in plasma tyrosine , which at levels above 500 micromol / L can result in symptoms , intellectual disability and developmental delay or painful hyperkeratotic plaques on the soles and palms ; do not adjust nitisinone dosage in order to lower the plasma tyrosine concentration .
Obtain slit - lamp examination prior to treatment , regularly during treatment ; Reexamine patients if symptoms develop or tyrosine levels are > 500 micromol / L .
Assess plasma tyrosine levels in patients with an abrupt change in neurologic status .
( 5 . 1 ) • Leukopenia and Severe Thrombocytopenia : Monitor platelet and white blood cell counts .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Elevated Plasma Tyrosine Levels , Ocular Symptoms , Developmental Delay and Hyperkeratotic Plaques Nitisinone is an inhibitor of 4 - hydroxyphenyl - pyruvate dioxygenase , an enzyme in the tyrosine metabolic pathway [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Therefore , treatment with nitisinone may cause an increase in plasma tyrosine levels in patients with HT - 1 .
Maintain concomitant reduction in dietary tyrosine and phenylalanine while on nitisinone treatment .
Do not adjust nitisinone dosage in order to lower the plasma tyrosine concentration .
Maintain plasma tyrosine levels below 500 micromol / L .
Inadequate restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine intake can lead to elevations in plasma tyrosine levels and levels greater than 500 micromol / L may lead to the following : • Ocular signs and symptoms including corneal ulcers , corneal opacities , keratitis , conjunctivitis , eye pain , and photophobia have been reported in patients treated with nitisinone [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In a clinical study in a non HT - 1 population without dietary restriction and reported tyrosine levels > 500 micromol / l both symptomatic and asymptomatic keratopathies have been observed .
Therefore , perform a baseline ophthalmologic examination including slit - lamp examination prior to initiating nitisinone treatment and regularly thereafter .
Patients who develop photophobia , eye pain , or signs of inflammation such as redness , swelling , or burning of the eyes or tyrosine levels are > 500 micromol / L during treatment with nitisinone should undergo slit - lamp reexamination and immediate measurement of the plasma tyrosine concentration .
• Variable degrees of intellectual disability and developmental delay .
In patients treated with nitisinone who exhibit an abrupt change in neurologic status , perform a clinical laboratory assessment including plasma tyrosine levels .
• Painful hyperkeratotic plaques on the soles and palms In patients with HT - 1 treated with dietary restrictions and nitisinone who develop elevated plasma tyrosine levels , assess dietary tyrosine and phenylalanine intake .
5 . 2 Leukopenia and Severe Thrombocytopenia In clinical trials , patients treated with nitisinone and dietary restriction developed transient leukopenia ( 3 % ) , thrombocytopenia ( 3 % ) , or both ( 1 . 5 % ) [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No patients developed infections or bleeding as a result of the episodes of leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
Monitor platelet and white blood cell counts during nitisinone therapy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( > 1 % ) are elevated tyrosine levels , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , conjunctivitis , corneal opacity , keratitis , photophobia , eye pain , blepharitis , cataracts , granulocytopenia , epistaxis , pruritus , exfoliative dermatitis , dry skin , maculopapular rash and alopecia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novitium Pharma at 1 - 855 - 204 - 1431 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical trials experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Nitisinone was studied in one open - label , uncontrolled study of 207 patients with HT - 1 , ages 0 to 22 years at enrollment ( median age 9 months ) , who were diagnosed with HT - 1 by the presence of succinylacetone in the urine or plasma .
The starting dose of nitisinone was 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily , and the dose was increased in some patients to 1 mg / kg twice daily based on weight , biochemical , and enzyme markers .
The recommended starting dosage of nitisinone is 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Median duration of treatment was 22 months ( range 0 . 1 to 80 months ) .
The most serious adverse reactions reported during nitisinone treatment were thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , porphyria , and ocular / visual complaints associated with elevated tyrosine levels [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
Fourteen patients experienced ocular / visual events .
The duration of the symptoms varied from 5 days to 2 years .
Six patients had thrombocytopenia , three of which had platelet counts 30 , 000 / microL or lower .
In 4 patients with thrombocytopenia , platelet counts gradually returned to normal ( duration up to 47 days ) without change in nitisinone dose .
No patients developed infections or bleeding as a result of the episodes of leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
Patients with HT - 1 are at increased risk of developing porphyric crises , hepatic neoplasms , and liver failure requiring liver transplantation .
These complications of HT - 1 were observed in patients treated with nitisinone for a median of 22 months during the clinical trial ( liver transplantation 13 % , liver failure 7 % , malignant hepatic neoplasms 5 % , benign hepatic neoplasms 3 % , porphyria 1 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported in the clinical trial are summarized in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 Most Common Adverse Reactions in Patients with HT - 1 Treated with Nitisinone * Elevated tyrosine levels > 10 % Leukopenia 3 % Thrombocytopenia 3 % Conjunctivitis 2 % Corneal opacity 2 % Keratitis 2 % Photophobia 2 % Eye pain 1 % Blepharitis 1 % Cataracts 1 % Granulocytopenia 1 % Epistaxis 1 % Pruritus 1 % Exfoliative dermatitis 1 % Dry skin 1 % Maculopapular rash 1 % Alopecia 1 % * reported in at least 1 % of patients Adverse reactions reported in less than 1 % of the patients , included death , seizure , brain tumor , encephalopathy , hyperkinesia , cyanosis , abdominal pain , diarrhea , enanthema , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , melena , elevated hepatic enzymes , liver enlargement , hypoglycemia , septicemia , and bronchitis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitisinone is a moderate CYP2C9 inhibitor , a weak CYP2E1 inducer and an inhibitor of OAT1 / OAT3 .
Table 2 includes drugs with clinically important drug interactions when administered concomitantly with nitisinone and instructions for preventing or managing them .
Table 2 : Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Co - Administered Drugs Sensitive CYP2C9 Substrates ( e . g . , celecoxib , tolbutamide ) or CYP2C9 Substrates with a Narrow Therapeutic Index ( e . g . , phenytoin , warfarin ) Clinical Impact Increased exposure of the co - administered drugs metabolized by CYP2C9 .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Intervention Reduce the dosage of the co - administered drugs metabolized by CYP2C9 drug by half .
Additional dosage adjustments may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations for narrow therapeutic index drugs .
See prescribing information for those drugs .
OAT1 / OAT3 Substrates ( e . g . , adefovir , ganciclovir , methotrexate ) Clinical Impact Increased exposure of the interacting drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] Intervention Monitor for potential adverse reactions related to the co - administered drug .
• CYP2C9 Substrates : Increased systemic exposure of these co - administered drugs ; reduce the dosage .
Additional dosage adjustments may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations for narrow therapeutic index drugs .
( 7 ) • OAT1 / OAT3 Substrates : Increased systemic exposure of these co - administered drugs ; monitor for potential adverse reactions .
( 7 ) Additional pediatric use information is approved for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB PUBL ' s Orfadin ( nitisinone ) capsules .
However , due to Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB PUBL ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited available data with nitisinone use in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have been conducted for nitisinone .
In these studies , nitisinone was administered to mice and rabbits during organogenesis with oral doses of nitisinone up to 20 and 8 times respectively , the recommended initial dose of 1 mg / kg / day .
In mice , nitisinone caused incomplete skeletal ossification of fetal bones and decreased pup survival at doses 0 . 4 times the recommended initial dose , and increased gestational length at doses 4 times the recommended initial dose .
In rabbits , nitisinone caused maternal toxicity and incomplete skeletal ossification of fetal bones at doses 1 . 6 times the recommended initial dose [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies have been performed in mice at oral doses of about 0 . 4 , 4 and 20 times the recommended initial dose ( 1 mg / kg / day ) and in rabbits at oral doses of about 1 . 6 , 4 and 8 times the recommended initial dose based on the body surface area .
In mice , nitisinone has been shown to cause incomplete skeletal ossification of fetal bones at 0 . 4 , 4 and 20 times the recommended initial dose , increased gestational length at 4 and 20 times the recommended initial dose , and decreased pup survival at 0 . 4 times the recommended initial dose based on the body surface area .
In rabbits , nitisinone caused incomplete skeletal ossification of fetal bones at 1 . 6 , 4 and 8 times the recommended initial dose based on the body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of nitisinone in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Data suggest that nitisinone is present in rat milk due to findings of ocular toxicity and lower body weight seen in drug naive nursing rat pups .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for nitisinone and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from nitisinone or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nitisinone have been established in pediatric patients for the treatment of HT - 1 in combination with dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine .
Use of nitisinone in pediatric patients is supported by evidence from one open - label , uncontrolled clinical study conducted in 207 patients with HT - 1 ages 0 to 22 years ( median age 9 months ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of nitisinone did not include any subjects aged 65 and over .
No pharmacokinetic studies of nitisinone have been performed in geriatric patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy in this patient population .
10 OVERDOSAGE Accidental ingestion of nitisinone by individuals eating normal diets not restricted in tyrosine and phenylalanine will result in elevated tyrosine levels .
In healthy subjects given a single 1 mg / kg dose of nitisinone , the plasma tyrosine level reached a maximum of 1200 micromol / L at 48 to 120 hours after dosing .
After a washout period of 14 days , the mean value of plasma tyrosine was still 808 micromol / L .
Fasted follow - up samples obtained from volunteers several weeks later showed tyrosine values back to normal .
There were no reports of changes in vital signs or laboratory data of any clinical significance .
One patient reported sensitivity to sunlight .
Hyper - tyrosinemia has been reported with nitisinone treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Nitisinone capsules contains nitisinone , which is a hydroxyphenyl - pyruvate dioxygenase inhibitor indicated as an adjunct to dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine in the treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1 ( HT - 1 ) .
Nitisinone occurs as white to yellow colored powder .
It is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in 2 M Sodium Hydroxide , Ethanol and Methanol .
Chemically , nitisinone is 2 - [ 2 - nitro - 4 - ( trifluoromethyl ) benzoyl ] cyclohexane - 1 , 3 - dione , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inert ingredients in the formulation are : Citric acid anhydrous , hypromellose , mannitol and stearic acid .
The empty hard gelatin capsules contains gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
The capsules shells are imprinted in edible ink which contains black iron oxide , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitisinone is a competitive inhibitor of 4 - hydroxyphenyl - pyruvate dioxygenase , an enzyme upstream of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase ( FAH ) in the tyrosine catabolic pathway .
By inhibiting the normal catabolism of tyrosine in patients with HT - 1 , nitisinone prevents the accumulation of the catabolic intermediates maleylacetoacetate and fumarylacetoacetate .
In patients with HT - 1 , these catabolic intermediates are converted to the toxic metabolites succinylacetone and succinylacetoacetate , which are responsible for the observed liver and kidney toxicity .
Succinylacetone can also inhibit the porphyrin synthesis pathway leading to the accumulation of 5 - aminolevulinate , a neurotoxin responsible for the porphyric crises characteristic of HT - 1 .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a clinical study , patients with HT - 1 were diagnosed by the presence of succinylacetone in urine or plasma and treated with nitisinone [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
In all 186 patients whose urine succinylacetone was measured , the urinary succinylacetone concentration decreased to less than 1 mmol / mol creatinine , the lower limit of quantitation .
The median time to normalization of urine succinylacetone was 0 . 3 months .
The probability of recurrence of abnormal values of urine succinylacetone was 1 % at a nitisinone concentration of 37 micromol / L ( 95 % confidence interval : 23 , 51 micromol / L ) .
In 87 % ( 150 / 172 ) of patients whose plasma succinylacetone was measured , the plasma succinylacetone concentration decreased to less than 0 . 1 micromol / L , the lower limit of quantitation .
The median time to normalization of plasma succinylacetone was 3 . 9 months .
Nitisinone inhibits catabolism of the amino acid tyrosine and can result in elevated plasma levels of tyrosine .
Therefore , treatment with nitisinone requires restriction of the dietary intake of tyrosine and phenylalanine to prevent the toxicity associated with elevated plasma levels of tyrosine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Additional pediatric use information is approved for Swedish Orphan Biovitrum ABPUBL ' s Orfadin ( nitisinone ) capsules .
However , due to Swedish Orphan Biovitrum ABPUBL ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The single - dose pharmacokinetics of nitisinone have been studied for nitisinone capsules in healthy adult subjects and the multiple - dose pharmacokinetics have been studied for nitisinone capsules in healthy subjects .
Absorption The pharmacokinetic characteristics following single oral administration of nitisinone 30 mg under fasting conditions are shown in Table 3 .
The multiple - dose characteristics of nitisinone 80 mg once daily are shown in Table 4 .
Steady - state ( SS ) was reached within 14 days dosing in all subjects .
TABLE 3 Nitisinone Arithmetic Mean ( CV % ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects Following a Single Oral 30 mg Dose of Nitisinone Under Fasting Conditions Treatment Cmax ( micromol / L ) [ range ] tmax * ( h ) [ range ] AUC0 - 72 h ( micromol · h / L ) [ range ] Nitisinone capsule ( n = 12 ) 10 . 5 ( 26 ) 3 . 5 [ 0 . 8 to 8 . 0 ] 406 ( 13 ) * presented as median [ range ] TABLE 4 Nitisinone Arithmetic Mean ( CV % ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters in Healthy Subjects Following Repeated Once Daily Administration of 80 mg Nitisisnone Under Fasting Conditions .
Cmax , ss ( micromol / L ) Cmin , ss ( micromol / L ) tmax , ss * ( h ) AUC0 - 24 h , ss ( micromol · h / L ) Treatment [ CV % ] [ range ] [ range ] [ range ] Nitisisnone capsule ( n = 18 ) 120 ( 23 ) 73 ( 24 ) 4 . 0 2204 ( 18 ) [ 0 . 0 to 16 . 0 ] * presented as median [ range ] Food Effect : No food effect study was conducted with nitisinone capsules .
Distribution In vitro binding of nitisinone to human plasma proteins is greater than 95 % at 50 micromolar concentration .
Elimination The mean terminal plasma half - life of single dose nitisinone in healthy male subjects is 54 hours .
The mean ( CV % ) apparent plasma clearance in 18 healthy adults following multiple once daily doses of Nitisinone 80 mg is 113 ( 16 ) mL / hr .
Metabolism : In vitro studies have shown that nitisinone is relatively stable in human liver microsomes with minor metabolism possibly mediated by CYP3A4 enzyme .
Excretion : Renal elimination of nitisinone is of minor importance , since the mean of the fraction of dose excreted as unchanged nitisinone in the urine ( fe ( % ) ) was 3 . 0 % ( n = 3 ) following multiple oral doses of 80 mg daily in healthy subjects .
The estimated mean ( CV % ) renal clearance of nitisinone was 0 . 003 L / h ( 25 % ) .
Drug Interaction Studies Nitisinone does not inhibit CYP2D6 .
Nitisinone is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 , and a weak inducer of CYP2E1 ( Table 5 ) .
Nitisinone is an inhibitor of OAT1 / 3 ( Table 5 ) Table 5 .
Percent Change in AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax for Co - administered Drugs in the Presence of Nitisinone in 18 Healthy Subjects Co - administered Drug a Dose of Co - administered Drug ( Route of Administration ) Effect of Nitisinone on the Pharmacokinetics of Co - administered Drug b AUC0 - ∞ Cmax CYP2C9 Substrate Tolbutamide c 500 mg ( oral ) 131 % ↑ 16 % ↑ CYP2E1 Substrate Chlorzoxazone 250 mg ( oral ) 27 % ↓ 18 % ↓ OAT1 / 3 Substrate Furosemide 20 mg ( intravenous ) 72 % ↑ 12 % ↑ ↑ = Increased ; ↓ = Decreased a The interacting drug was administered alone on Day 1 and together with nitisinone on Day 17 .
b Multiple doses of 80 mg nitisinone were administered daily alone from Day 3 to Day 16 .
c 16 subjects in Period 2 received nitisinone and tolbutamide while 18 subjects in Period 1 received nitisinone alone .
In Vitro Studies Where Drug Interaction Potential Was Not Further Evaluated Clinically In vitro studies showed that nitisinone does not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2C19 , or 3A4 .
Nitisinone does not induce CYP1A2 , 2B6 or 3A4 / 5 .
Nitisinone does not inhibit P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 and OCT2 - mediated transports at therapeutically relevant concentrations .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility The carcinogenic potential of nitisinone was assessed in a 26 - week oral ( gavage ) carcinogenicity study in Tg . rasH2 mice .
There were no drug - related neoplastic findings in male or female Tg . rasH2 mice at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day nitisinone ( approximately 8 . 1 times the recommended initial dose of 1 mg / kg / day on a body surface area basis ) .
Nitisinone was not genotoxic in the Ames test and the in vivo mouse liver unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test .
Nitisinone was mutagenic in the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y / TK + / - ) forward mutation test and in an in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus test .
In a single dose - group study in rats given 100 mg / kg ( 16 . 2 times the recommended initial dose of 1 mg / kg / day on a body surface area basis ) , reduced litter size , decreased pup weight at birth , and decreased survival of pups after birth was demonstrated .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of nitisinone in patients with HT - 1 was evaluated in one open - label , uncontrolled study of 207 patients with HT - 1 , ages 0 to 22 years at enrollment ( median age 9 months ) .
Patients were diagnosed with HT - 1 by the presence of succinylacetone in the urine or plasma .
All patients were treated with nitisinone at a starting dose of 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily , and the dose was increased in some patients to 1 mg / kg twice daily based on weight , liver and kidney function tests , platelet count , serum amino acids , urinary phenolic acid , plasma and urine succinylacetone , erythrocyte PBG - synthase , and urine 5 - ALA .
The median duration of treatment was 22 months ( range less than 1 month to 80 months ) .
Efficacy was assessed by comparison of survival and incidence of liver transplant to historical controls .
For patients presenting with HT - 1 younger than 2 months of age who were treated with dietary restriction and nitisinone , 2 - and 4 - year survival probabilities were 88 % and 88 % , respectively .
Data from historical controls showed that patients presenting with HT - 1 at younger than 2 months of age and treated with dietary restriction alone had 2 - and 4 - year survival probabilities of 29 % and 29 % , respectively .
For patients presenting with HT - 1 between 2 months and 6 months of age who were treated with dietary restriction and nitisinone , 2 - and 4 - year survival probabilities were 94 % and 94 % , respectively .
Data for historical controls showed that patients presenting with HT - 1 between 2 months and 6 months of age treated with dietary restriction alone had 2 - and 4 - year survival probabilities of 74 % and 60 % , respectively .
The effects of nitisinone on urine and plasma succinylacetone , porphyrin metabolism , and urinary alpha - 1 - microglobulin were also assessed in this clinical study .
Porphyria - like crisis were reported in 3 patients ( 0 . 3 % of cases per year ) during the clinical study .
This compares to an incidence of 5 to 20 % of cases per year expected as part of the natural history of the disorder .
An assessment of porphyria - like crises was performed because these events are commonly reported in patients with HT - 1 who are not treated with nitisinone .
Urinary alpha - 1 - microglobulin , a proposed marker of proximal tubular dysfunction , was measured in 100 patients at baseline .
The overall median pretreatment level was 4 . 3 grams / mol creatinine .
After one year of treatment in a subgroup of patients ( N = 100 ) , overall median alpha - 1 - microglobulin decreased by 1 . 5 grams / mol creatinine .
In patients 24 months of age and younger in whom multiple values were available ( N = 65 ) , median alpha - 1 - microglobulin levels decreased from 5 . 0 to 3 . 0 grams / mol creatinine ( reference value for age less than or equal to 12 grams / mol creatinine ) .
In patients older than 24 months in whom multiple values were available ( N = 35 ) , median alpha - 1 - microglobulin levels decreased from 2 . 8 to 2 . 0 grams / mol creatinine ( reference for age less than or equal to 6 grams / mol creatinine ) .
The long term effect of nitisinone on hepatic function was not assessed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Nitisinone Capsules 2 mg for oral administration containing 2 mg of nitisinone , are supplied as follows : White Opaque Hard gelatin capsule shell Size # 3 , imprinted with black ink as " 008 " on cap and " Novitium 2 mg " on body , filled with white to off white powder blend .
NDC 63629 - 2234 - 1 Bottles of 60 capsules with child - resistant closure and tamper resistant induction sealing Store at room temperature between 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELLING INFORMATION Administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] Administration of Nitisinone Capsules • Maintain dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine when taking nitisinone .
• Capsules : Take at least one hour before , or two hours after a meal .
For patients who have difficulty swallowing the capsules , the capsules may be opened and the contents suspended in a small amount of water , formula or apple sauce immediately before use .
Elevated Plasma Tyrosine Levels , Ocular Symptoms , Developmental Delay and Hyperkeratotic Plaques • Inform patients that inadequate restriction may be associated with ocular signs and symptoms , intellectual disability and developmental delay , and painful hyperkeratotic plaques on the soles and palms .
Advise patients and caregivers of the need to maintain dietary restriction of tyrosine and phenylalanine and to report any unexplained ocular , neurologic , or other symptoms promptly to their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Novitium Pharma LLC 70 Lake Drive , East Windsor New Jersey 08520 Distributed by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 Revised : August , 2019 Nitisinone 2 mg Capsule , # 60 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
