Description Each Rectal Suppository contains 25 mg hydrocortisone acetate in a hydrogenated vegetable oil base .
Hydrocortisone acetate is a corticosteroid .
Chemically , hydrocortisone acetate is pregn – 4 – ene – 3 , 20 – dione , 21 – ( acetyloxy ) – 11 , 17 – dihydroxy ( 11ß ) – with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology In normal subjects , about 26 percent of hydrocortisone acetate is absorbed when the hydrocortisone acetate suppository is applied to the rectum .
Absorption of hydrocortisone acetate may vary across abraded or inflamed surfaces .
Topical steroids are primarily effective because of their anti – inflammatory , anti – pruritic and vasoconstrictive action .
Indications and Usage Hydrocortisone acetate suppositories are indicated for use in inflamed hemorrhoids , post – irradiation ( factitial ) proctitis , as an adjunct in the treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis , cryptitis , other inflammatory conditions of the anorectum , and pruritus ani .
Contraindication Hydrocortisone suppositories are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Precautions 1 .
Do not use unless adequate proctologic examination is made .
2 .
If irritation develops , the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
3 .
In the presence of an infection , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Carcinogenic No long – term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of corticosteroid suppositories .
Information for Patients Staining of fabric may occur with use of the suppository .
Precautionary measures are recommended .
Pregnancy Category C In laboratory animals , topical steroids have been associated with an increase in the incidence of fetal abnormalities when gestating females have been exposed to rather low dosage levels .
There are no adequate and well – controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocortisone suppositories should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk , and because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocortisone suppositories , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reactions have been reported with hydrocortisone suppositories : Burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypopigmentation , allergy contact dermatitis , secondary infection .
To report suspected adverse reactions , contact Vitruvias Therapeutics at 1 – 844 – 451 – 5944 or FDA @ 1 – 800 – FDA – 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Drug abuse and dependence has not been reported in patients treated with hydrocortisone acetate suppositories .
Overdosage If signs and symptoms of systemic overdosage occur , discontinue use .
Dosage and Administration Usual dosage One suppository in the rectum morning and night for two weeks , in nonspecific proctitis .
In more severe cases , one suppository three times daily ; or two suppositories twice daily .
In factitial proctitis , recommended therapy is six to eight weeks or less , according to the response of the individual case .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please NOTE : This is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendation based on his / her professional knowledge and opinion , upon evaluating the active ingredients , inactive ingredients , excipients and chemical information provided herein .
How is hydrocortisone acetate Suppository Supplied Hydrocortisone acetate 25 mg Suppositories are off – white , cylinder shaped , with one end tapered .
Package of 12 suppositories ( NDC 69680 – 144 – 12 ) and package of 24 suppositories ( NDC 69680 – 144 – 24 ) .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Temperature .
Store away from heat .
Protect from freezing .
Rx only .
Opening Instructions Avoid excessive handling of the suppository .
It is designed to melt at body temperature .
1 .
Separate plastic film at top opening and pull downward .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Continue pulling downward to almost the full length of the suppository .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Gently remove the suppository from the film pocket .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Graxcell Pharmaceutical , LLC .
136 Oak Drive Syosset , NY 11791 Manufactured for : Vitruvias Therapeutics Auburn , AL 36830 I144 0321R0 Revised 03 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 mg Suppository Blister Pack Carton NDC 69680 - 144 - 12 VITRUVIAS therapeutics Hydrocortisone Acetate Suppositories 25 mg Rx only 12 Suppositories [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
