Warnings and Precautions ( ) 3 / 2013 5 . 9 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Novolin R is a short - acting recombinant human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus ( ) .
1 1 . 1 Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus Novolin R is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The dosage and timing of Novolin R must be individualized ( ) .
• 2 . 1 • Subcutaneous injection : Administer approximately 30 minutes prior to the start of a meal ( ) .
• 2 . 2 • Intravenous use : Use at concentrations from 0 . 05 to 1 . 0 Unit / mL in infusion systems using polypropylene infusion bags .
Novolin R is stable in 0 . 9 % sodium chloride , 5 % dextrose , or 10 % dextrose with 40 mmol / L potassium chloride ( ) .
• 2 . 3 • Use in pumps : Not recommended due to risk of precipitation ( ) .
• 2 . 4 2 . 1 Dosing The dosage and timing of Novolin R must be individualized .
Blood glucose monitoring is essential for all patients receiving insulin therapy .
Total daily insulin requirements vary and are usually between 0 . 5 and 1 . 0 units / kg / day .
Insulin requirements may be altered during stress , major illness , or with changes in exercise , meal patterns , or coadministered medications .
2 . 2 Subcutaneous Injection Novolin R should generally be injected approximately 30 minutes prior to the start of a meal .
Novolin R given by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens that include an intermediate or long - acting insulin .
[ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( , ) ] 16 . 116 . 2 Novolin R should be administered by subcutaneous injection in the abdominal region , buttocks , thigh , or the upper arm .
Subcutaneous injection into the abdominal wall is generally associated with faster absorption than other injection sites .
Injection sites should be rotated within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy .
Injection into a lifted skin fold minimizes the risk of intramuscular injection .
2 . 3 Intravenous Use Novolin R can be administered intravenously under medical supervision for glycemic control , with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium concentrations to avoid hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( , ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( , ) ] 5 . 25 . 316 . 116 . 2 Intravenous administration of insulin is commonly used in the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis , peri - operative management of diabetes , and maintenance of glycemic control during labor in pregnant diabetic women .
For intravenous use , Novolin R should be used at concentrations from 0 . 05 units / mL to 1 . 0 unit / mL in infusion systems using polypropylene infusion bags .
Novolin R can be used with the following infusion fluids : 0 . 9 % sodium chloride , 5 % dextrose , or 10 % dextrose with 40 mmol / L potassium chloride .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Never use Novolin R if it has become viscous or cloudy ; use Novolin R only if it is clear and colorless .
Vials should not be used if leakage is observed .
Novolin R should not be used after the printed expiration date .
The onset of action of Novolin R , when administered intravenously , is more rapid in comparison to subcutaneous administration .
2 . 4 Use in Insulin Pumps Use of Novolin R in insulin pumps is not recommended because of the risk of precipitation .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Novolin R is available in 10 mL vials .
The concentration of Novolin R is 100 USP units of human insulin ( rDNA origin ) / mL .
• Novolin R , Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( rDNA origin ) USP , 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) , is supplied in 10 mL vials ( ) .
3 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Novolin R is contraindicated : • During episodes of hypoglycemia • • In patients with hypersensitivity to Novolin R or one of its excipients • • Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia ( ) .
• 4 • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to Novolin R or one of its excipients ( ) .
• 4 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypoglycemia : Most common adverse reaction of insulin therapy and may be life - threatening .
Closely monitor blood glucose .
Changes in insulin or dosage should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision ( ) .
• 5 . 2 • Hypokalemia : Particularly when insulin is given intravenously or in settings of poor glycemic control .
Use caution in patients predisposed to hypokalemia ( ) .
• 5 . 3 • Renal or hepatic impairment : As with other insulins , the dose requirements for Novolin R may be reduced ( ) .
• 5 . 5 • Allergic reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , may occur ( ) .
• 5 . 6 • Mixing : Do not mix Novolin R with any insulin for intravenous use .
Do not mix with insulins other than NPH insulin for subcutaneous use ( ) .
• 5 . 7 • Fluid retention and heart failure can occur with concomitant use of thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are PPAR - gamma agonists , and insulin , including Novolin R ( ) .
• 5 . 9 5 . 1 Administration Subcutaneous injection of Novolin R should be followed by a meal .
Patients should wait approximately 30 minutes after injection before starting the meal [ ] .
see Dosage and Administration ( ) 2 . 2 Any change of insulin dose should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Changing from one insulin product to another or changing the insulin strength may result in the need for a change in dosage .
As with all insulin preparations , the time course of Novolin R action may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and is dependent on many conditions , including dosage , the site of injection , local blood supply , temperature , and physical activity .
Patients who change their level of physical activity or meal plan may require adjustment of insulin dosages .
Insulin requirements may be altered during illness , emotional disturbances , or other stresses .
5 . 2 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction of all insulin therapies , including Novolin R . Severe hypoglycemia may lead to unconsciousness , convulsions , temporary or permanent impairment of brain function or death .
Severe hypoglycemia requiring the assistance of another person , parenteral glucose infusion , and glucagon administration has been observed in clinical trials with insulin , including trials with Novolin R .
The timing of hypoglycemia usually reflects the time - action profile of the administered insulin formulations [ ] .
Other factors such as changes in food intake ( e . g . , amount of food or timing of meals ) , injection site , exercise , and concomitant medications may also alter the risk of hypoglycemia [ ] .
As with all insulins , use caution in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness and in patients who may be predisposed to hypoglycemia ( e . g . , patients who are fasting or have erratic food intake , pediatric patients , and the elderly ) .
The patient ’ s ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
This may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important , such as driving or operating other machinery .
see Clinical Pharmacology ( , ) 12 . 212 . 3 see Drug Interactions ( ) 7 Rapid changes in serum glucose concentrations may induce symptoms of hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes , regardless of the glucose value .
Early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may be different or less pronounced under certain conditions , such as longstanding diabetes , diabetic neuropathy , use of medications such as beta - blockers , or intensified glycemic control [ ] .
These situations may result in severe hypoglycemia ( and , possibly , loss of consciousness ) prior to the patient ’ s awareness of hypoglycemia .
Intravenously administered insulin has a more rapid onset of action than subcutaneously administered insulin , requiring more close monitoring for hypoglycemia .
see Drug Interactions ( ) 7 5 . 3 Hypokalemia All insulins , including Novolin R , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia that , if left untreated , may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Use caution in patients who may be at risk for hypokalemia ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications and patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
Monitor glucose and potassium frequently when Novolin R is administered intravenously .
5 . 4 Hyperglycemia , Diabetic Ketoacidosis , and Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic Non - Ketotic Syndrome Hyperglycemia , diabetic ketoacidosis , or hyperosmolar hyperglycemic non - ketotic syndrome may develop in patients who take less insulin than needed to control blood glucose .
These conditions can be precipitated by illness , infection , dietary indiscretion , or omission or improper administration of the prescribed insulin dose .
5 . 5 Renal or Hepatic Impairment As with other insulins , the dose requirements for Novolin R may be reduced in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions - As with other insulins , patients may experience redness , swelling , or itching at the site of injection of Novolin R .
These reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks , but in some occasions , may require discontinuation of Novolin R .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than insulin , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique .
Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have been reported with the use of meta - cresol , which is an excipient in Novolin R . Local Reactions - Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis may occur with any insulin , including Novolin R . Generalized allergy to insulin may manifest as a whole body rash ( including pruritus ) , dyspnea , wheezing , hypotension tachycardia , or diaphoresis .
Systemic Reactions , 5 . 7 Mixing of Insulins If Novolin R is mixed with NPH human insulin , Novolin R should be drawn into the syringe first and the mixture should be injected immediately after mixing .
Insulin mixtures should not be administered intravenously .
5 . 8 Antibody Production Increases in titers of anti - insulin antibodies that react with human insulin have been observed in patients treated with Novolin R . Data from a 12 - month controlled trial in patients with type 1 diabetes suggest that the increase in these antibodies is transient .
The clinical significance of these antibodies is not known but does not appear to cause deterioration in glycemic control or necessitate increases in insulin dose .
5 . 9 Fluid retention and heart failure with concomitant use of PPAR - gamma agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including NOVOLIN R , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • • Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including Novolin R [ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5 . 2 • • Insulin initiation and glucose control intensification Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
Over the long - term , improved glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
• • Lipodystrophy Long - term use of insulin , including Novolin R , can cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated insulin injections .
Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy ( thickening of adipose tissue ) and lipoatrophy ( thinning of adipose tissue ) , and may affect insulin absorption .
Rotate insulin injection sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy .
• • Weight gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapies , including Novolin R , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
• • Peripheral edema Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
These symptoms are usually transitory .
• • Allergic reactions As with other insulins , Novolin R can cause injection site reactions .
Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis may occur with any insulin , including Novolin R [ ] .
see Warnings and Precautions ( ) 5 . 6 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying designs , the adverse reaction rates reported in one clinical trial may not be easily compared to those rates reported in another clinical trial , and may not reflect the rates actually observed in clinical practice .
Adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes The incidence of adverse reactions during clinical trials comparing Novolin R and insulin aspart in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus are listed in the tables below .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions in a 24 - Week Trial Comparing Novolin R and Insulin Aspart in Adults with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Also Treated with NPH Insulin ( adverse reactions with an incidence ≥ 5 % in the Novolin R treatment group are listed ) Novolin R + NPH N = 286 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 596 % % Hypoglycemia [ 1 ] 72 75 [ 1 ] Hypoglycemia was defined as an episode of blood glucose concentration < 45 mg / dL , with or without symptoms .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions in a 24 - Week Trial Comparing Novolin R and Insulin Aspart in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Also Treated with NPH Insulin ( adverse reactions with an incidence ≥ 5 % in the Novolin R treatment group are listed ) Novolin R + NPH N = 91 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 91 ( % ) ( % ) Hypoglycemia [ 1 ] 36 27 [ 1 ] Hypoglycemia was defined as an episode of blood glucose concentration < 45 mg / dL , with or without symptoms .
Children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes The incidence of adverse reactions during a 24 - week clinical trial comparing Novolin R and insulin aspart in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus are listed in the table below .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions in a 24 - Week Trial Comparing Novolin R and Insulin Aspart in Children and Adolescents with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Also Treated with NPH Insulin ( adverse reactions with an incidence ≥ 5 % in the Novolin R treatment group are listed ) Novolin R + NPH N = 96 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 187 ( % ) ( % ) Hypoglycemia [ 1 ] 85 79 Injection site hypertrophy 8 8 [ 1 ] Hypoglycemia was defined as an episode of blood glucose concentration < 50 mg / dL , with or without symptoms .
Severe Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including Novolin R Tables 4 and 5 summarize the incidence of severe hypoglycemia in the Novolin R clinical trials .
Severe hypoglycemia was defined as hypoglycemia associated with central nervous system symptoms and requiring intervention of another person or hospitalization .
The rates of severe hypoglycemia in the Novolin R clinical trials ( see Section 14 for a description of the study designs ) were comparable for all treatment regimens ( see Tables 4 and 5 ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( ) ] .
5 . 3 Table 4 : Severe Hypoglycemia in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 Diabetes Adults 24 weeks in combination with NPH insulin Type 1 Diabetes Children and Adolescents ( age 6 - 18 ) 24 weeks in combination with NPH insulin Type 1 Diabetes Children ( age 2 - 6 ) 24 weeks in combination with NPH insulin Novolin R Insulin aspart Novolin R Insulin aspart Novolin R Insulin aspart Percent of patients ( n / total N ) 19 ( 55 / 286 ) 18 ( 105 / 596 ) 9 ( 9 / 96 ) 6 ( 11 / 187 ) 12 ( 3 / 25 ) 8 ( 2 / 26 ) Event / patient / year 1 . 1 0 . 9 0 . 3 0 . 2 0 . 5 0 . 3 Table 5 : Severe Hypoglycemia in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Adults 24 weeks in combination with NPH insulin Novolin R Insulin aspart Percent of patients ( n / total N ) 5 ( 5 / 91 ) 10 ( 9 / 91 ) Event / patient / year 0 . 2 0 . 3 Adverse reactions observed with Novolin R include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , weight gain and edema ( ) .
6 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contactNovo Nordisk Inc . at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 orwww . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS A number of medications affect glucose metabolism that may require insulin dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control .
• The following are examples of medications that may increase the blood glucose - lowering effect of insulin and increase susceptibility to hypoglycemia : oral antidiabetic medications , pramlintide acetate , angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , disopyramide , fibrates , fluoxetine , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors , propoxyphene , salicylates , somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) , and sulfonamide antibiotics .
• • The following are examples of medications that may reduce the blood glucose - lowering effect of insulin , leading to worsening of glycemic control : corticosteroids , niacin , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , salbutamol , terbutaline ) , isoniazid , phenothiazine derivatives , somatropin , thyroid hormones , estrogens , progestogens ( e . g . , in oral contraceptives ) , and atypical antipsychotics .
• • Beta - blockers , clonidine , and lithium salts may either potentiate or weaken the blood glucose - lowering effect of insulin .
• • Alcohol can increase susceptibility to hypoglycemia .
• • Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
• • The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic medications such as beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine .
• • Certain medications affect glucose metabolism and may require insulin dose adjustment and close monitoring ( ) .
• 7 • The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking anti - adrenergic medications ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) ( ) .
• 7 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defects , loss , or other adverse outcome regardless of drug exposure .
This background risk is increased in pregnancies complicated by hyperglycemia and may be decreased with good glycemic control .
It is essential for patients with diabetes or a history of gestational diabetes to maintain good glycemic control before conception and throughout pregnancy .
Insulin requirements may decrease during the first trimester , generally increase during the second and third trimesters , and rapidly decline after delivery .
Careful monitoring of glucose control is important during pregnancy in patients with diabetes .
Therefore , women should be advised to tell their healthcare provider if they intend to become , or if they become , pregnant while taking Novolin R . No reproductive toxicity studies have been performed with Novolin R . 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is unknown whether Novolin R is excreted in breast milk .
Small amounts of human insulin are secreted into breast milk , the significance of which is not known .
Use of Novolin R is compatible with breastfeeding , but insulin doses may need to be adjusted because lactation can reduce insulin requirements .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of subcutaneous injections of Novolin R have been established in pediatric patients ( ages 2 to18 years ) with type 1 diabetes .
Novolin R has not been studied in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age .
Novolin R has not been studied in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes .
[ see Clinical Studies ( ) ] 14 . 3 In general , pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes are more susceptible to hypoglycemia than adult patients with type 1 diabetes .
As in adults , the dosage of Novolin R must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and frequent monitoring of blood glucose .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( ) and Warnings and Precautions ( ) ] 2 . 15 . 2 8 . 5 Geriatric Use In 3 controlled clinical trials 18 of 1285 patients ( 1 . 4 % ) with type 1 diabetes treated with Novolin R and insulin aspart were ≥ 65 years of age .
In 4 controlled clinical trials 151 of 635 patients ( 24 % ) with type 2 diabetes were ≥ 65 years of age .
Therefore , conclusions are limited regarding the efficacy and safety of Novolin R in patients ≥ 65 years of age , particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes .
Pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic studies to assess the effect of age on Novolin R have not been performed .
Use caution in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( and ) ] 5 . 25 . 5 10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and , particularly when given intravenously , hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment can be treated with intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon or intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( , ) ] 5 . 25 . 3 11 DESCRIPTION Novolin R ( Regular Human Insulin Injection [ Recombinant DNA origin ] United States Pharmacopeia ) is a polypeptide hormone structurally identical to native human insulin and is produced by recombinant DNA technology , utilizing ( baker ’ s yeast ) as the production organism .
Novolin R has the empirical formula C H N O S and a molecular weight of 5808 .
Saccharomyces cerevisiae25738365776 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Structural formula of Novolin R Novolin R is a sterile , clear , aqueous , and colorless solution that contains human insulin ( rDNA origin ) 100 units / mL , glycerol 16 mg / mL , metacresol 3 mg / mL , zinc chloride approximately 7 mcg / mL and water for injection .
The pH is adjusted to 7 . 4 .
Hydrochloric acid 2 N or sodium hydroxide 2 N may be added to adjust pH . Novolin R vials are latex - free .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary activity of Novolin R is the regulation of glucose metabolism .
Insulins , including Novolin R , bind to insulin receptors on muscle and adipocytes and lower blood glucose by facilitating the cellular uptake of glucose and simultaneously inhibiting the output of glucose from the liver .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Novolin R is a short - acting insulin .
When injected subcutaneously , the glucose - lowering effect of Novolin R begins approximately 30 minutes post - dose , is maximal between 1 . 5 and 3 . 5 hours post - dose and terminates approximately 8 hours post - dose .
The onset of action of Novolin R , when administered intravenously , is more rapid in comparison to the subcutaneous administration .
When injected subcutaneously , Novolin R has a slower onset of action and longer duration of action compared to the rapid - acting insulin analogs .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After single subcutaneous administration of 0 . 1 unit / kg of Novolin R to healthy subjects , peak insulin concentrations occurred between 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 hours post - dose .
On average , insulin concentrations returned to baseline at around 5 hours post - dose .
The effects of sex , age , obesity , ethnic origin , renal and hepatic impairment , pregnancy , and smoking , on the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of Novolin R have not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Novolin R . Novolin R is not mutagenic in the following tests : The chromosomal aberration assay in human lymphocytes , the micronucleus assay in mouse polychromatic erythrocytes , and the mutation frequency assay in Chinese hamster cells .
in vitro Standard reproduction and teratology studies in animals , including fertility assessments have not been conducted with Novolin R . 14 CLINICAL STUDIES Please see for information on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of Novolin R . Section 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 14 . 1 Type 1 diabetes mellitus ( adults ) Two six ‑ month , open ‑ label , active - controlled studies were conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of Novolin R and insulin aspart in adults with type 1 diabetes .
Insulin aspart was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and Novolin R was administered by subcutaneous injection 30 minutes before meals .
Both treatment groups also received subcutaneous injections of NPH insulin in either single or divided daily doses .
Because the two study designs and results were similar , data are shown for only one study ( see Table 6 ) Table 6 : Subcutaneous Novolin R Administration in Type 1 Diabetes ( 24 weeks ; N = 882 ) Novolin R + NPH N = 286 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 596 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] 8 . 0 ± 1 . 2 7 . 9 ± 1 . 1 Change from Baseline HbA ( % ) 1 c null 0 . 0 ± 0 . 8 - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 8 Treatment Difference in HbA , Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 1 c Novolin R – insulin aspart group 0 . 2 [ 0 . 1 ; 0 . 3 ] Baseline , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 0 . 7 ± 0 . 2 0 . 7 ± 0 . 2 End - of - Study , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 0 . 7 ± 0 . 2 0 . 7 ± 0 . 2 Baseline body weight ( kg ) null Weight Change from baseline ( kg ) null 75 . 9 ± 13 . 1 0 . 9 ± 2 . 9 75 . 3 ± 14 . 5 0 . 5 ± 3 . 3 [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD 14 . 2 Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( adults ) A six ‑ month , open ‑ label , active - controlled study was conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of Novolin R and insulin aspart in adults with type 2 diabetes ( Table 7 ) .
Insulin aspart was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and Novolin R was administered by subcutaneous injection 30 minutes before meals .
Both treatment groups also received subcutaneous injections of NPH insulin in either single or divided daily doses .
Table 7 : Subcutaneous Novolin R Administration in Type 2 Diabetes ( 24 weeks ; N = 182 ) Novolin R + NPH N = 91 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 91 Baseline HbA ( % ) 1 c [ 1 ] 7 . 8 ± 1 . 1 8 . 1 ± 1 . 2 Change from Baseline HbA ( % ) 1 c null - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 8 - 0 . 3 ± 1 . 0 Treatment Difference in HbA Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 1 c , Novolin R – insulin aspart group 0 . 1 [ - 0 . 1 ; 0 . 4 ] Baseline , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 0 . 6 ± 0 . 3 0 . 6 ± 0 . 3 End - of - Study , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 0 . 7 ± 0 . 3 0 . 7 ± 0 . 3 Baseline body weight ( kg ) null Weight Change from baseline ( kg ) null 85 . 8 ± 14 . 8 0 . 4 ± 3 . 1 88 . 4 ± 13 . 3 1 . 2 ± 3 . 0 [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD 14 . 3 Type 1 diabetes mellitus ( children and adolescents ) A six ‑ month , open ‑ label , active - controlled study was conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of Novolin R and insulin aspart in children and adolescents aged 6 - 18 years with type 1 diabetes ( Table 8 ) .
Insulin aspart was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and Novolin R was administered by subcutaneous injection 30 minutes before meals .
Both treatment groups also received subcutaneous injections of NPH insulin .
Table 8 : Subcutaneous Novolin R Administration in Children and Adolescents with Type 1 Diabetes ( 24 weeks ; N = 283 ) Novolin R + NPH N = 96 Insulin aspart + NPH N = 187 Baseline HbA ( % ) 1 c [ 1 ] 8 . 3 ± 1 . 3 8 . 3 ± 1 . 2 Change from Baseline HbA ( % ) 1 c null 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 0 . 1 ± 1 . 0 Treatment Difference in HbA Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 1 c , Novolin R – insulin aspart group [ 2 ] 0 . 2 [ - 0 . 1 ; 0 . 5 ] Baseline , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 1 . 0 ± 0 . 4 1 . 0 ± 0 . 3 End - of - Study , total insulin dose ( units / kg / day ) null 1 . 2 ± 0 . 4 1 . 2 ± 0 . 4 Diabetic ketoacidosis n ( % ) 2 ( 2 % ) 10 ( 5 % ) Baseline body weight ( kg ) null Weight Change from baseline ( kg ) null 48 . 7 ± 15 . 8 2 . 4 ± 2 . 6 50 . 6 ± 19 . 6 2 . 7 ± 3 . 5 [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD [ 2 ] The treatment difference and corresponding 95 % confidence interval is based on the Analysis of Covariance Model Novolin R and insulin aspart have also been compared in an open - label , randomized , crossover trial in 26 children with type 1 diabetes aged 2 - 6 years .
Patients received each treatment for 12 weeks .
Insulin aspart was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and Novolin R was administered by subcutaneous injection 30 minutes before meals .
Both treatment groups also received subcutaneous injections of NPH insulin .
In this study , the mean baseline HbA was 7 . 8 % .
1 c The estimated HbA at end of treatment was 7 . 6 % with Novolin R and 7 . 7 % with insulin aspart .
1 c 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 64725 - 1833 - 1 in a VIAL of 10 INJECTION , SOLUTIONS 16 . 1 How Supplied Novolin R is available in 10 mL vials ( NDC 0169 - 1833 - 11 and ReliOn brand NDC 0169 - 1833 - 02 ) .
The concentration of Novolin R is 100 USP units of human insulin ( rDNA origin ) / mL .
One vial is provided in each sale pack .
® 16 . 2 Recommended Storage Unopened Novolin R vials should be stored in the refrigerator ( 36 ° - 46 ° F [ 2 ° - 8 ° C ] ) .
If carried as a spare or if refrigeration is not possible , unopened Novolin R vials can be kept at room temperature provided they are kept as cool as possible ( not above 77 F [ 25 C ] ) .
If kept at room temperature , Novolin R vials must be discarded after 42 days even if they are unopened .
oo In addition , unopened Novolin R vials should be kept in their cartons so that they will stay clean and protected from light .
They should not be exposed to heat or light .
Do not freeze and do not use Novolin R if it has been frozen .
An opened ( In use ) Novolin R vial can be kept at room temperature provided it is kept as cool as possible ( not above 77 F [ 25 C ] ) and away from heat or light .
Do not refrigerate after first use .
oo Unopened and opened ( In use ) Novolin R vials must be discarded 42 days after they are first kept out of the refrigerator , even if they still contain Novolin R insulin .
Table 9 : Storage Conditions for Novolin R vials Unopened ( Refrigerated ) Unopened ( Room Temperature up to 77 F [ 25 C ] ) oo Opened ( In use ) ( Room Temperature up to 77 F [ 25 C ] ) oo Until expiration date 42 days [ 1 ] 42 days null [ 1 ] The total time allowed at room temperature ( up to 25 C ) is 42 days regardless of whether the product is unopened or opened ( In use ) o Infusion bags prepared as indicated under are stable at room temperature for 24 hours .
A certain amount of insulin will be initially adsorbed to the material of the infusion bag .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( ) 2 . 3 Always remove the needle after each injection .
Always use a new disposable syringe and needle for each injection to prevent contamination .
Never use insulin after the expiry date which is printed on the label and carton .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) 17 . 1 Instructions for All Patients Maintenance of normal or near - normal glucose control is a treatment goal in diabetes mellitus and has been associated with a reduction in some diabetic complications .
Patients should be informed about potential risks and benefits of Novolin R therapy including possible adverse reactions .
Patients should also be offered continued education and advice on insulin therapies , injection technique , life - style management , regular glucose monitoring , periodic glycosylated hemoglobin testing , recognition and management of hypo - and hyperglycemia , adherence to meal planning , complications of insulin therapy , timing of dose , instruction in the use of injection devices , and proper storage of insulin .
Patients should be informed that frequent , patient - performed blood glucose measurements are needed to achieve optimal glycemic control and avoid both hyper - and hypoglycemia .
The patient ’ s ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
This may present a risk in situations where these abilities are especially important , such as driving or operating other machinery .
Patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia should be advised to use caution when driving or operating machinery .
Female patients should be advised to tell their physician if they intend to become , or if they become pregnant .
Patients should be instructed to always carefully check that they are administering the correct insulin to avoid medication errors between Novolin R and other insulins .
Patients should check the label for the drug name Novolin R , the enlarged R letter , and the blue horizontal bar .
If a prescription for Novolin R is needed , it should be written clearly to avoid confusion with other insulin products .
Novolin is a registered trademark of Novo Nordisk A / S .
® ReliOn is a registered trademark of Wal - Mart Stores , Inc . and is used under license by Novo Nordisk Inc . ® © 2002 - 2013 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark ReliOn brand manufactured by : ® Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For Wal - Mart Stores Inc .
For information about Novolin R contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 www . novonordisk - us . com 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information NOVOLIN R ( NO - voe - lin ) ® ( Regular , Human Insulin Injection [ recombinant DNA origin ] USP ) solution for subcutaneous injection Read the Patient Information leaflet that comes with Novolin R before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
® What is Novolin R ?
® Novolin R is a man - made insulin ( recombinant DNA origin ) that is used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
® Who should not use Novolin R ?
® Do not take Novolin R if : ® • Your blood sugar is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
After treating your low blood sugar , follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions on the use of Novolin R . •® • You are allergic to any of the ingredients in Novolin R . See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Novolin R . Check with your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
•®® What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking Novolin R ?
® Before you take Novolin R , tell your healthcare providers if you : ® • • have liver or kidney problems .
• • take any other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin R . • have heart failure or other heart problems .
® • Medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of Novolin R . • have any other medical conditions .
® • Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• It is not known if Novolin R passes into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take Novolin R while you breast - feed .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
®® including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Novolin R may affect the way Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines you take , ® other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how Novolin R works .
® Keep a list of your medicines with you to show all your Know the medicines you take .
healthcare providers and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Novolin R ?
® • Novolin R comes in 10 mL vials for use with a syringe .
•® • • Take Novolin R exactly as prescribed .
® • Your healthcare provider will tell you how much Novolin R to take and when to take it .
•® • Do not make any changes to your dose or type of insulin unless you are told to do so by your healthcare provider .
• • The effects of Novolin R usually start working within about 30 minutes after your injection and usually lasts for up to 8 hours .
•® • your total dose of insulin , your dose of Novolin R , your dose of longer - acting insulin , or the number of injections of insulin you use .
• While using Novolin R your healthcare provider may change ®® • with any insulins other than NPH in the same syringe .
• Do not mix Novolin R ® • Novolin R may affect your blood sugar levels faster if you inject it into the skin of your abdomen ( stomach area ) .
• Inject Novolin R under your skin ( subcutaneously ) of your abdomen ( stomach area ) , upper arms , buttocks or upper legs .
®® Never inject Novolin R into a vein or into a muscle .
® • • Do not use Novolin R in an insulin pump .
® • • Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the chosen area ( for example , stomach or upper arm ) with each dose .
Do not inject into the same spot for each injection .
• Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject Novolin R before you start taking it .
• Read the instructions for use that comes with your Novolin R . ®® • You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and could lead to passing out ( loss of consciousness ) , seizures and death .
• If you take too much Novolin R , your blood sugar may fall too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
® • If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar which may include : • If you forget to take your dose of Novolin R , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
® • increased thirst ∘ • frequent urination and dehydration ∘ • confusion or drowsiness ∘ • loss of appetite ∘ • fruity smell on breath ∘ • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine ∘ • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain ∘ • a hard time breathing ∘ • Do not share needles or syringes with others .
You may give an infection to them or get an infection from them .
• • Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugars should be and how often you should check your blood sugar levels for hypoglycemia ( too low blood sugar ) and hyperglycemia ( too high blood sugar ) .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • illness • • stress • • other medicines you take • • change in diet • • change in physical activity or exercise • • surgery • See the end of this patient information for instructions about preparing and giving the injection .
What should I avoid while taking Novolin R ?
® • Alcohol may affect your blood sugar when you take Novolin R .
This could lead to blood sugar that is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
• Drinking alcohol .
® • You may have trouble paying attention or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright for you to drive if you often have : ∘ Driving and operating machinery .
• low blood sugar ∘ • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar ∘ What are the possible side effects of Novolin R ?
® Novolin R may cause serious side effects , including : ® • • Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
The general symptoms of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) may be one or more of the following : • sweating • • dizziness or lightheadedness • • shakiness • • hunger • • fast heart beat • • tingling in your hands , feet , lips or tongue • • trouble concentrating or confusion • • blurred vision • • slurred speech • • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • • headache • Very low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can cause loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , temporary or permanent brain problems or death .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to tell if you have low blood sugar and what to do if this happens while taking Novolin R . Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
® Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
Your dose of Novolin R may need to be changed .
® • A decrease of potassium in your blood can cause breathing problems , a change in your heartbeat and death .
• Low blood potassium ( hypokalemia ) .
• • Serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
You can have a serious allergic reaction that may be life - threatening .
Get medical help right away if you have any of these symptoms of an allergic reaction : • a rash over your body • • have trouble breathing • • a fast heartbeat • • sweating • • feel faint • • • Swelling of your hands and feet .
• Taking certain diabetes pills called thiazolidinediones or “ TZDs ” with Novolin R may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with Novolin R .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with Novolin R . Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • Heart Failure .
®®® • shortness of breath • • swelling of your ankles or feet • • sudden weight gain • • Treatment with TZDs and Novolin R may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
® Other side effects of Novolin R may include : ® • You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions , or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need to stop using Novolin R and use a different insulin .
Do not inject insulin into skin that is red , swollen , or itchy .
• Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
® • The fatty tissue under the skin may shrink ( lipoatrophy ) or thicken ( lipohypertrophy ) at the injection site .
Change ( rotate ) the site where you inject your insulin to help reduce the chance of developing these skin changes .
Do not inject insulin into this type of skin .
• Changes at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
• • Weight gain .
• • Swelling of your arms and legs .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects from Novolin R . Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
® Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Novolin R ?
® Unopened Novolin R : ® • Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the Novolin R label , if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
• Unopened Novolin R should be kept in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
®® • If refrigeration is not possible or if you want to carry a spare Novolin R vial you can keep the unopened vial at room temperature for up to 42 days , as long as it is kept at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Throw away the vial 42 days after it is first kept out of the refrigerator , even if the vial is unopened .
•® • Do not freeze .
Do not use Novolin R if it has been frozen .
•® • Keep unopened Novolin R in the carton to protect it from light .
•® Novolin R in use : ® • Keep at room temperature below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep vials away from heat or light .
• • Do not refrigerate an opened vial .
• • Throw away the vial 42 days after it is first kept out of the refrigerator , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• Never use insulin after the expiration date which is printed on the label and carton .
General information about Novolin R ® Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Novolin R for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Novolin R to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
®® This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Novolin R .
If you would like more information about Novolin R or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about Novolin R that is written for healthcare professionals .
®®® For more information about Novolin R , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or go to .
® www . novonordisk - us . com What are the ingredients in Novolin R ?
® Regular Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) USP .
Active ingredient : glycerol , metacresol , zinc chloride , water for injection , hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide may be added .
Inactive ingredients : All Novolin R vials are latex - free .
® This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Date of issue : 03 / 2013 Novolin is a registered trademark of Novo Nordisk A / S .
® © 2002 - 2013 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Novolin R contact : ® Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 www . novonordisk - us . com Patient Instructions for Use Novolin R 10 mL vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) ® Please read the following Instructions for Use carefully before using your Novolin R 10 mL vial and ® each time you get a refill .
You should read the instructions in this manual even if you have used an insulin 10 mL vial before .
There may be new information .
Before starting , gather all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and giving your insulin injection .
Never re - use syringes and needles .
How should I use the Novolin R vial ?
1 .
Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use different types of insulin .
2 .
Look at the vial and the insulin .
The insulin should be clear and colorless .
The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap had been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the insulin is cloudy , colored , or contains any particles , do not use it and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
3 .
Wash your hands with soap and water .
Clean your injection site with an alcohol swab and let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
4 .
If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Do not roll or shake the vial .
Shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or foam .
This can cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
6 .
Pull back the plunger on the syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
Push the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 .
Push the plunger all the way in to force air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 9 .
Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 .
If there are any air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles present in the syringe back into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 .
Check to make sure you have the right dose of Novolin R in the syringe .
12 .
Pull the syringe out of the vial ’ s rubber stopper .
13 .
Your healthcare provider should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before and while inserting the needle .
This can vary from patient to patient so it is important to ask your healthcare provider if you did not receive instructions on pinching the skin .
Insert the needle into the skin .
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the insulin .
When you are finished injecting the insulin , pull the needle out of your skin .
You may see a drop of Novolin R at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol wipe .
Do not rub the area .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 .
After your injection , do not recap the needle .
Place used syringes , needles and used insulin vials in a disposable puncture - resistant sharps container , or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw on cap such as a detergent bottle or coffee can .
15 .
Ask your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be state or local laws about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycle .
How should I mix Novolin R with NPH insulin ?
Different insulins should be mixed only under instruction from a healthcare provider .
Do not mix Novolin R should be mixed with NPH insulin right before use .
When you are mixing Novolin R insulin with NPH insulin , always Novolin R with any other type of insulin except NPH insulin . draw the Novolin R ( clear ) insulin into the syringe first .
1 .
Add together the total number of units of NPH and Novolin R that you need to inject .
Your total dose of medicine to inject will be the amount of NPH and Novolin R in the syringe after drawing up both insulins .
For example , if you need 5 units of NPH and 2 units of Novolin R , the total dose of insulin in the syringe would be 7 units .
Preparing your NPH and Novolin R insulins for injection : 2 .
Roll the NPH vial between your hands until all of the liquid in the vial is cloudy .
3 .
Pull the plunger of the syringe down so that the dark end is lined up to the number of units needed for your NPH insulin .
This will draw into the syringe the same amount of air as the NPH dose needed .
4 .
Put the needle through the rubber stopper of the cloudy NPH insulin bottle .
After you inject the air into the NPH vial , remove the needle from the vial but do not withdraw any of the NPH insulin .
Putting air in the bottle makes it easier to draw the insulin out of the bottle .
5 .
Pull the plunger of the syringe down to the number of units needed for your Novolin R insulin .
After you draw the air into the syringe , inject the air into the Novolin R vial .
Drawing up and mixing your NPH and Novolin R insulins for injection : 6 .
With the needle in place , turn the clear insulin vial of Novolin R upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the right dose of Novolin R .
The tip of the needle must be in the Novolin R liquid to get the full dose and not an air dose .
7 .
Check the syringe for air bubbles .
If you see air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles in the syringe back into the vial .
8 .
After withdrawing the needle from the Novolin R vial , insert the needle into the NPH vial .
9 .
Turn the NPH vial upside down with the syringe and needle still in the vial .
Slowly pull the plunger back to withdraw your NPH dose .
Remember the total dose of medicine in the syringe should be your total dose of NPH and Novolin R insulins .
( See Step 1 under “ How should I mix Novolin R with NPH insulin ? ” )
10 .
Inject your insulin right away otherwise it might not work properly .
This Patient Instructions for Use has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration .
Date of Issue : 03 / 2013 Novolin is a registered trademark of Novo Nordisk A / S .
® © 2002 - 2013 Novo Nordisk Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Novolin R contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
800 Scudders Mill Road Plainsboro , New Jersey 08536 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 www . novonordisk - us . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NOVOLIN R ( HUMAN INSULIN ) INJECTION , SOLUTION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
