Drug Facts Active ingredients Zinc oxide 21 . 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • this product is meant for targeted protection and small areas of exposed skin • for full protection use in conjunction with another sunscreen lotion or spray • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients isopropyl palmitate , ozokerite , cetyl alcohol , neopentyl glycol diethylhexanoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , butyloctyl salicylate , silica , beeswax , isostearic acid , solanum lycopersicum ( tomato ) seed oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil [ 1 ] , vaccinium macrocarpon ( cranberry ) seed oil , nigella sativa ( black cumin ) seed oil null , rubus idaeus ( red raspberry ) seed oil , caprylyl glycol , centella asiatica ( gotu kola ) extract , daucus carota stavia ( carrot ) seed oil , euphorbia cerifera ( candelilla ) wax , polyhydroxystearic acid , rubus idaeus ( raspberry ) seed oil [ 1 ] Certified Organic Ingredient • Unless otherwise specified , product not labeled as organic .
• * Learn about these and all our ingredients and the choices we make at babyganics . com / products dist .
by KAS Direct , LLC san francisco , ca 94111 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 g Container Label tear free kids by babyganics ® easy rub - in SPF 50 mineral sunscreen dermatologist tested broad spectrum SPF 50 water & sweat resistant ( 80 minutes ) Discover which of our ingredients are certified organic inside the back label .
1118956 NET WT 1 . 6 OZ ( 45 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
