1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % and 10 % , is indicated to dilate the pupil .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution is an alpha - 1 adrenergic receptor agonist indicated to dilate the pupil ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For patients 1 year of age and older : ( 2 . 1 ) • Apply one drop of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution ( 2 . 5 % or 10 % strength ) to conjunctival fornix at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye .
• To obtain a greater degree of mydriasis , use 10 % strength For pediatric patients less than 1 year of age : ( 2 . 2 ) • Instill one drop of 2 . 5 % strength to conjunctival fornix at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye 2 . 1 General Dosing Recommendations In patients 1 year of age or greater , apply one drop of either phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % or 10 % every 3 to 5 minutes to the conjunctival fornix as required up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye per day .
In order to obtain a greater degree of mydriasis , phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % may be needed .
2 . 2 Dosing in Pediatric Patients Less Than 1 Year of Age In pediatric patients less than 1 year of age , one drop of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % should be instilled at 3 to 5 minute intervals up to a maximum of 3 drops per eye .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP 2 . 5 % is a clear , colorless , sterile topical ophthalmic solution containing phenylephrine hydrochloride 2 . 5 % : each mL contains 25 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , USP 10 % is a clear , colorless , sterile topical ophthalmic solution containing phenylephrine hydrochloride 10 % .
: each mL contains 100 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride .
Ophthalmic solution ( sterile ) : ( 3 ) • 25 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride in one mL of solution ( 2 . 5 % ) • 100 mg of phenylephrine hydrochloride in one mL of solution ( 10 % ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The 10 % strength is contraindicated in : • Patients with hypertension , or thyrotoxicosis ( 4 . 1 ) • Pediatric patients less than 1 year of age due to increased risk of systemic toxicity ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Cardiac and Endocrine Disease Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % is contraindicated in patients with hypertension or thyrotoxicosis .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients .
4 . 2 Pediatric Patients Less Than 1 Year of Age Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age due to the increased risk of systemic toxicity .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Not for injection : Topical ophthalmic use only ( 5 . 1 ) • Serious cardiovascular reactions with 10 % strength : Reactions have included ventricular arrhythmias and some have been fatal .
Monitor blood pressure in patients with cardiovascular disease ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Significant elevations in blood pressure : Caution in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age , and in patients with cardiovascular disease or hyperthyroidism .
In patients at high risk , monitor blood pressure post treatment ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Rebound miosis : Reported one day after instillation ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % and 10 % is not indicated for injection .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Reactions There have been reports of serious cardiovascular reactions , including ventricular arrhythmias and myocardial infarctions , in patients using phenylephrine 10 % .
These episodes , some fatal , have usually occurred in patients with pre - existing cardiovascular diseases .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % should be used in these patients .
5 . 3 Elevation of Blood Pressure A significant elevation in blood pressure is not common but has been reported following conjunctival instillation of recommended doses of phenylephrine 10 % .
The risk is less with phenylephrine 2 . 5 % .
Caution should be exercised with the use of phenylephrine 10 % in pediatric patients less than 5 years of age and patients with hyperthyroidism , or cardiovascular disease .
The post - treatment blood pressure of patients with cardiac and endocrine diseases and any patients who develop symptoms should be carefully monitored .
5 . 4 Rebound Miosis Rebound miosis has been reported one day after receiving phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution , and re - instillation of the drug produced a lesser mydriatic effect .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular Effects [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Elevation in Blood Pressure [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified following use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Ocular adverse reactions include eye pain and stinging on instillation , temporary blurred vision , and photophobia ( 6 . 1 ) • Cardiovascular adverse reactions include increase in blood pressure , syncope , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage ( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Akorn , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 932 - 5676 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Ocular Adverse Reactions Eye pain and stinging on instillation , temporary blurred vision and photophobia , and conjunctival sensitization may occur .
6 . 2 Systemic Adverse Reactions A marked increase in blood pressure has been reported particularly , but not limited to low weight premature neonates , infants and hypertensive patients .
Cardiovascular effects which have been seen primarily in hypertensive patients following topical ocular use of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % include marked increase in blood pressure , syncope , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , arrhythmia and subarachnoid hemorrhage [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 and 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Atropine - like drugs : May exaggerate the adrenergic pressor response ( 7 . 1 ) • Potent inhalation anesthetic agents : May potentiate cardiovascular depressant effects ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Agents That May Exaggerate Pressor Responses Concomitant use of phenylephrine and atropine may enhance the pressor effects and induce tachycardia in some patients .
Phenylephrine may potentiate the cardiovascular depressant effects of some inhalation anesthetic agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical phenylephrine .
It is also not known whether phenylephrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Phenylephrine hydrochloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human breast milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 2 . 5 % and 10 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution 10 % is contraindicated in pediatric patients less than 1 year of age [ See Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety and effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger adult patients .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of phenylephrine may cause a rapid rise in blood pressure .
It may also cause headache , anxiety , nausea , and vomiting , and ventricular arrhythmias .
Prompt injection of a rapidly acting alpha - adrenergic blocking agent such as phentolamine has been recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP is a sterile , clear , colorless , topical α - adrenergic agonist for ophthalmic use .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemical Name : ( R ) - 3 - hydroxy - α [ ( methylamino ) methyl ] benzenemethanol hydrochloride .
Molecular Formula : C9H13NO2 . HCl Molecular Weight : 203 . 67 g / mol Each mL of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 2 . 5 % contains : ACTIVE : Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 25 mg ( 2 . 5 % ) ; INACTIVES : Sodium Phosphate Monobasic , Sodium Phosphate Dibasic , Water for Injection .
Phosphoric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
The solution has a tonicity of 340 mOsm / kg ; PRESERVATIVE : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
Each mL of Phenylephrine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution , USP 10 % contains : ACTIVE : Phenylephrine Hydrochloride 100 mg ( 10 % ) ; INACTIVES : Sodium Phosphate Monobasic , Sodium Phosphate Dibasic , Water for Injection .
Phosphoric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 4 . 0 to 7 . 5 ) .
The solution has a tonicity of 985 mOsm / kg ; PRESERVATIVE : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 mg ( 0 . 01 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Phenylephrine hydrochloride is an α - 1 adrenergic agonist drug that is used in ophthalmology mainly for its mydriatic effect .
After topical application to the conjunctiva , phenylephrine acts directly on α - adrenergic receptors in the eye , producing contraction of the dilator muscle of the pupil and constriction of the arterioles in the conjunctiva .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Maximal mydriasis occurs in 20 to 90 minutes with recovery after 3 to 8 hours .
Systemic absorption of sufficient quantities of phenylephrine may lead to systemic α - adrenergic effects , such as rise in blood pressure which may be accompanied by a reflex atropine - sensitive bradycardia .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The systemic exposure following topical administration of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has not been studied .
A higher systemic absorption is expected for the 10 % solution than the 2 . 5 % solution and when the corneal barrier function is compromised .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Pupillary dilation following topical administration of phenylephrine hydrochloride ophthalmic solution has been demonstrated in controlled clinical studies in adults and pediatric patients with different levels of iris pigmentation .
Pupil movement is generally seen within 15 minutes , maximal mydriasis between 20 to 90 minutes and recovery after 3 to 8 hours .
Darker irides tend to dilate slower than lighter irides .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 4515 NDC : 50090 - 4515 - 1 15 mL in a BOTTLE , DROPPER / 1 in a CARTON 17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients not to touch the dropper tip to any surface as this may contaminate the solution .
Inform patients that they may experience sensitivity to light and should protect their eyes in bright illumination while their pupils are dilated .
AKORN Manufactured by : Akorn , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 EL00N Rev . 02 / 19 Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from light and excessive heat .
Phenylephrine Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
