PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Containers ) Urologic Irrigating Fluid for Patients Requiring Prolonged Indwelling Urethral Catheterization .
Not for Transurethral Surgical Procedures .
Not for Injection .
DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL contains : Glacial Acetic Acid USP 0 . 25 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 – 3 . 4 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 42 mOsmol / liter The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Glacial Acetic Acid USP CH3COOH 60 . 05 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP is a prediluted , sterile , nonpyrogenic aqueous solution suitable for urologic irrigation .
It contains no preservatives or added buffers .
The solution is hypotonic .
The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The PIC ™ Container is PVC - free and DEHP - free .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Irrigation of the urinary bladder with acetic acid solution in a concentration of 0 . 25 % has been shown to exert an antimicrobial action against a variety of microorganisms ( especially ammonia - forming bacteria ) that frequently gain access to the urinary bladder in patients who require prolonged indwelling urethral catheterization .
Its antimicrobial action is dependent on administration via the indwelling catheter at a sufficient rate ( continuous or intermittent ) to maintain an effluent pH of 5 . 0 or lower .
Maintenance of low pH of bladder urine also helps reduce formation of calcium encrustations in the indwelling catheter .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP is indicated as a constant or intermittent bladder rinse to help prevent the growth and proliferation of susceptible urinary pathogens ( especially ammonia - forming bacteria ) in the management of patients who require prolonged placement of an indwelling urethral catheter .
It also may be used for periodic irrigation of an indwelling catheter to help maintain patency by reducing the formation of calcium encrustations .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP is not for injection .
This solution is contraindicated for irrigation during transurethral surgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR UROLOGIC IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Use of this solution in patients with mucosal lesions of the urinary bladder may be harmful due to irritation of the lesion .
Absorption via open lesions of the bladder mucosa may result in systemic acidosis .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
After opening container , the contents should be used promptly in order to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservative .
PRECAUTIONS General Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering sterile irrigation solutions .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
If pain or hematuria should occur during irrigation , it should be discontinued and the patient reevaluated .
When used for irrigation via appropriate irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP .
It is also not known whether 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years of age respond differently from younger subjects .
Although systemic absorption of the product is unlikely , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic acidosis , pain , and hematuria have been reported in patients receiving urinary bladder irrigation with 0 . 25 % acetic acid solution .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue administration of the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination , if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE Systemic absorption is unlikely unless there are open lesions of the bladder mucosa that have gone undetected .
In such event , discontinue the irrigation , evaluate the patient for possible systemic acidosis , intravascular hemolysis , and circulatory overload and institute appropriate countermeasures as indicated .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As required for urologic irrigation .
0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP may be administered by gravity drip via an administration set connected to an indwelling urethral catheter designed for continuous or intermittent two - way flow .
For continuous or intermittent irrigation , the rate of administration will correspond roughly to the rate of urine flow and should be adjusted to maintain a urinary effluent pH of 4 . 5 to 5 . 0 .
Nitrazine or other pH paper may be used to monitor pH , preferably at least four times daily .
Drip rate should be adjusted as necessary to maintain desired pH ; increasing flow rate reduces pH value and vice versa .
With continuous or intermittent irrigation , each patient will require a volume of approximately 500 to 1500 mL per 24 hours .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
This drug product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 1000 mL and 500 mL PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Containers ) packaged 16 per case .
NDC Cat .
No .
Size 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP 0264 - 2304 - 00 R6600 - 01 1000 mL 0264 - 2304 - 10 R6601 - 01 500 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : March 2009 PIC is a trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions For Use of PIC Containers Not for injection .
Aseptic technique is required .
• Caution – Before use , perform the following checks : ( a ) Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
( b ) Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Single dose container .
Discard unused portion .
• Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt .
Then , twisting the container in the opposite direction , turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Connect the administration set through the sterile set port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not warm above 150 ° F to assure minimal bottle distortion .
Keep bottles upright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA Y36 - 002 - 694 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Label 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP REF R6600 - 01 NDC 0264 - 2304 - 00 1000 mL Each 100 mL contains : Glacial Acetic Acid USP 0 . 25 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 – 3 . 4 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 42 mOsmol / liter , hypotonic Not for Injection or Transurethral Surgery : Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only PVC - free and DEHP - free B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA Lot Exp .
Y37 - 002 - 327 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mL Bag Label 0 . 25 % Acetic Acid Irrigation USP REF R6601 - 01 NDC 0264 - 2304 - 10 500 mL Each 100 mL contains : Glacial Acetic Acid USP 0 . 25 g Water for Injection USP qs pH : 3 . 1 ( 2 . 8 – 3 . 4 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 42 mOsmol / liter , hypotonic Not for Injection or Transurethral Surgery : Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only PVC - free and DEHP - free B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA Lot Exp .
Y37 - 002 - 328 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
