No7 Lift and Luminate Day Cream SPF 15 Drug Facts Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Octinoxate 5 % , Octocrylene 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out if eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directons Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Reapply at least every 2 hours Chidren under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a , m - 2 p .
m wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hat and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive Ingredients Aqua ( water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , Butylene glycol , Cetearyl glucoside , C18 - 36 acid glycol ester , Dimethicone , Mica , Cetearyl alcohol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP coplymer , Phenoxyethanol , Cyclohexasiloxane , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , Xanthan gum , Methylparaben , Sodium ascorbyl phosphate , Dimethiconol , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Ethylparaben , Dipropylene glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Citric acid , T - butyl alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Polysorbate 20 , Haematococcus Pluvialis powder , BHT , Polyglucuronic acid , Potassium sorbate , Simethicone , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , Biotin , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS A complete , daily no7 lift and luminate skincare system that visibly lifts , evens skin tone and improves the appearance of lines and wrinkles in 4 weeks .
Ingredients continued No7 lift and luminate night cream Ingredients : Aqua ( water ) , glycerin , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , cyclopentasiloxane , steareth - 21 , c12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , cyclohexasiloxane , dimethicone , polyacrylamide , steareth - 2 , cetearyl alcohol , glyceryl stearate , vp / hexadecene copolymer , c13 - 14 isoparaffin , phenoxyethanol , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , dimethiconol , butylene glycol , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , laureth - 7 , parfum ( fragrance ) , methylparaben , sodium citrate , citric acid , ethylparaben , dipropylene glycol , potassium sorbate , tetrasodium EDTA , lupinus albus seed extract , carbomer , polysorbate 20 , haematococcus pluvialis powder , polyglucuronic acid , ethylhexylglycerin , palmitoyl oligopeptide , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , biotin .
No7 lift and luminate eye cream Ingredients : Aqua ( water ) , glycerin , cyclopentasiloxane , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , cyclohexasiloxane , cetearyl alcohol , polyacrylamide , glyceryl stearate , stearic acid , palmitic acid , PEG - 100 stearate , phenoxyethanol , dipalmitoyl hydroxyproline , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , butylene glycol , sodium ascorbyl phosphate , methylparaben , laureth - 7 , ethylparaben , tetrasodium EDTA , hesperidn methyl chalcone , lupinus albus seed extract , carbomer , steareth - 20 , potassium hydroxide , polysorbate 20 , haematococcus pluvialis powder , polyglucuronic acid , potassium sorbate , ethylhexylglycerin , chlorhexidine digluconate , dipeptide - 2 , palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , palmitoyl oligopeptide , biotin , CI 77891 ( titanium dioxide ) .
Lift and luminate No7 Skincare system A daily skincare regimen that visibly lifts , evens skin tone and improves the appearance of lines and wrinkles in 4 weeks .
Key ingredients Vitamin C and Hawaiian algae ( Patented energizing complex ) help older skin cells behave like younger skin , leaving skin looking brighter and younger .
White lupin extract and peptides ( Skin firming complex ) help combat wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone , visibly lifting and firming the skin ' s appearance .
Shea butter moisturizes and nourishes the skin , leaving it softer and smoother .
Sunscreen broad spectrum SPF 15 helps to provide protection against the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sin protecting measures .
What is the No7 lift and luminate skincare system ?
An advanced skincare system consisting of a day , night and eye cream that leaves skin feeling firmer and noticeably more radiant in just 4 weeks .
Suitable for all skin types , it is ideal for those who have deep lines and wrinkles wishing to improve the youthful appearance of their skin .
How do I use it ?
Use as part of your daily skincare routine .
Use No7 lift and luminate day cream in the morning .
At night , follow your cleanser with No7 lift and luminate night cream for moisturizing benefits while you rest .
Use No7 lift and luminate eye cream both morning and night to help lift , brighten and smooth the skin around the eyes .
What should I use with these products ?
For best results use with Boots No7 cleanser and the No7 anti - aging serum suitable for your skin type .
Advanced Skincare The No7 lift and luminate skincare system delivers visible results , quickly lifting and redefining your skin for a more youthful appearance .
Peptide technology delivers visible firming benefits to your skin in as little as 4 weeks .
Active ingredients work to intensively lift and smooth Look visibly younger with this complete skincare regimen .
Reveal lifted and firmer - feeling skin Key Benefits After 4 weeks After 6 months Lift and luminate day cream SPF 15 helps protect from sun exposure Skin feels firmer and noticeably more radiant Visibly younger - looking skin Lift and luminate night cream Intensely moisturizing and hydrating Visible firmness and more even skin tone Visibly younger - looking skin Lift and luminate eye cream Helps lift and brighten around the eyes Skin around eyes looks supple , soft and healthy Visibly younger - looking skin Lift and luminate No7 Skincare system A daily skincare regimen that visibly lifts , evens the skin tone and improves the appearance of lines and wrinkles in 4 weeks .
No7 lift and luminate day cream SPF 15 A rich and nourishing day cream designed to lift and firm the skin , reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles , and even skin tone .
After 4 weeks use , skin is left feeling firmer and noticeably more radiant .
To use : After cleansing , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 lift and luminate night cream With every application , this advanced night cream boosts your skin ' s radiance while you sleep .
The skin firming and patented energizing complexes help to reveal revitalized , smoother and more supple skin when you wake .
To use : Just before bedtime , after cleansing , massage in small upwards circles over your face and neck .
Avoid eye area .
No7 lift and luminate eye cream Lift and brighten the skin around the eyes with this intensively hydrating eye cream .
This hard working formula helps to lift and firm the skin while reducing the appearance of lines and wrinkles , and evens skin tone in just 4 weeks .
The skin around the eyes will appear revitalised , radiant and brighter looking .
To use : Dot on gently after cleansing morning and night , blending around the contours of the eye area .
How does it work ?
Vitamin C and Hawaiian algae ( Patented energizing complex ) help older skin cells behave like younger skin , leaving skin looking brighter and younger .
White lupin extract and peptides ( Skin firming complex ) help combat wrinkles , loss of firmness and uneven skin tone , visibly lifting and firming the skin ' s appearance .
Shea butter moisturizes and nourishes the skin , leaving it softer and smoother .
Sunscreen broad spectrum SPF 15 helps to provide protection against the aging effects of the sun when used as directed with other sin protecting measures .
Made in the UK .
Manufactured for Boots Beauty International Ltd .
NG2 3 AA UK .
Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk , CT 06851 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS www . shopbootsusa . com JAR TEXT Active ingredients : Octinoxate 6 % , Avobenzone 3 % , Octocrylene 1 % JAR TEXT Warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse well with water immediately .
JAR TEXT Smooth into your face and neck after applying your No7 serum .
JAR TEXT The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in the UK www . Boots . com no7 [ MULTIMEDIA ] No7 Lift and Luminate Skincare system A daily skincare regimen that visibly lifts , evens skin tone and improves the appearance of lines and wrinkles in 4 weeks .
Save over 12 dollars Sunscreen broad spectrum Look inside Hypoallergenic No7 lift and luminate skincare system contains : No7 lift and luminate day cream SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl .
Oz No7 lift and luminate night cream 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl .
Oz No7 lift and luminate eye cream 15 ml 0 . 5 US Fl .
Oz No7 LL Day Cream Kit carton . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] JAR TEXT No7 Protect and Perfect Day Cream Hypo - allergenic Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 50 ml 1 . 6 US Fl . Oz No7 LL Day Cream SPF 15 jar . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
