Pain Relieving Roll - On Gel Active ingredient Purpose Menthol 10 % ............. Cooling Pain Reliever Uses : For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings : For external use only Flammable : Keep away from excessive heat or open flame .
When using this product : Avoid contact with the eyes .
If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of product and consult a physician .
Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Do not bandage tightly .
Do not use in eyes .
In case of contact , rinse thoroughly with water .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a physician .
If pregnant or breastfeeding : Ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children : If accidentally ingested , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Store in a cool dry place with lid closed tightly .
Inactive Ingredients : Organic Aloe Leaf Juice , Ethyl Alcohol , White Camphor Essential Oil , Meadowfoam Seed Oil , Cannabidiol ( CBD ) from Hemp Extract , Capsicum Fruit Oleoresin , Sweet Basil Leaf Oil , Black Pepper Oil , Roman Chamomile Flower Oil , German Chamomile Flower Oil , Cinnamon Leaf Oil , Citronella Oil , Eucalyptus Leaf Oil , Helichrysum Flower Oil , Ginger Root Oil , Pink Grapefruit Peel Oil , Juniper Berry Oil , Lemongrass Oil , Peppermint Oil , Pine Needle Oil , Ravensara Oil , Rosemary Leaf Oil , Spearmint Oil , Wild Oregano Oil , Glycerin , Witch Hazel Water , Organic Alcohol , Phenoxyethanol , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate Questions or Comments ?
( 877 ) 744 - 4779 Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a physician .
Uses : For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Individual Unit Label NDC 73842 - 001 - 01 Roll On Bottle 89 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pain Relieving Roll - On Gel 6 - pack Label NDC 73842 - 001 - 02 Case of 6 bottles ( Net Vol .
534 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
