Drug Facts Active Ingredient Titanium Dioxide 6 . 00 % Zinc Oxide 6 . 00 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses : • Helps prevent sunburn • Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings : • For external use only .
• Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
• When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and consult physician if irritation or rash develops and lasts .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
If product is swallowed , get medical attention or contact poison control center immediately .
Directions : Apply liberally 15 - minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply : ■ After swimming or sweating .
■ Immediately after towel drying .
■ At least every 2 hours .
SUN PROTECTION MEASURES .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer , early skin aging and other harmful effects of the sun to skin on those undergoing oncology therapies .
To help decrease this risk , regularly use sunscreen with broad spectrum protection and an SPF rating of 15 or higher , along with other sun protection measures including : ■ Limit time in the sun , especially between 10 am and 2 pm .
■ Wear protective clothing : long sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
■ For children under 6 - months , consult a physician .
Inactive Ingredients : Aloe barbadensis leaf ( aloe vera gel ) juice , aqua ( deionized water ) , camellia sinensis ( green tea ) extract , daucus carota sativa ( carrot ) extract , ethylhexylglycerin , ethylhexyl palmitate , glycerin , glycine soja ( soybean ) oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) oil , lecithin , phenoxyethanol , prunus amygdalus dulcis ( sweet almond ) oil , sesamum indicum ( sesame ) seed oil , sodium laurylglucosides hydroxypropylsulfonate , theobroma cacao ( cocoa ) butter , tocopherol ( vitamin E ) , xanthan gum .
Other Information ■ Do not store in excessive heat or direct sunlight .
Questions or comments ?
( 833 ) 662 - 6376 ( M - F ) ( 9 - 5 pm EST ) Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
