Active ingredient Sodium fluoride 0 . 05 % ( 0 . 02 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity rinse Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings Keep out of reach of children If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • adults and children 6 years of age and older : use once a day after brushing your teeth with toothpaste • remove cap • pour 10 milliliters ( 10 mL mark on inside of cap ) ; do not fill above the 10 mL mark • vigorously swish 10 milliliters of rinse between your teeth for 1 minute then spit it out • do not swallow the rinse • do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing • instruct children under 12 years of age in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • supervise childrenas necessary until capable of using without supervision • children under 6 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients water , sorbitol , menthol , methyl salicylate , flavor , cetylpyridinium chloride , sodium saccharin , poloxamer 407 , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , sodium phosphate , disodium phosphate , calcium disodium EDTA , disodium EDTA , sodium benzoate , potassium sorbate , benzyl alcohol , green 3 , yellow 5 The ADA Council on Scientific Affairs Acceptance of up & up mint anticativity fluoride rinse is based on its finding that the product is effective in helping to prevent and reduce tooth decay , when used as directed * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem , Inc . , distributor of Act Dist .
by Target Corp . , Mpls . , MN 55403 Made in U . S . A . with U . S . and foretign components Shop Target . com Guest Services 1 - 800 - 910 - 6874 principal display panel SAFETY SEALED WITH PRINTED NECKBAND FOR YOUR PROTECTION ANTICAVITY fluoride mouthrinse * Compare to Act Anticavity Fluoride Rinse helps prevent cavities helps strengthen teeth freshens breath up & up Mint Flavor IMPORTANT : read directions for proper use 18 fl oz ( 532 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
