warning • Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consquences Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % purpose Cough suppressant + topical analgesic uses Uses • on chest + throat , temporarily relieves cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrilson wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave or add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
This could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions See important warnings under " When using this product " • adults + children 2 yrs + over : • rub a thick layer on chest + throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol disclaimer The active ingredients in Exchange Select Chest Rub works naturally by breathing in the medicated vapors to relieve coughing due to colds .
Exchange Select Medicated Chest rub also relieves minor muscle aches and pains .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks VapoRub adverse reaction SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK Manufactured For Your Military Exchanges By Vi - Jon , LLC 8515 Page Avenue St . Louis MO 63114 exchange select MEDICATED CHEST RUB COUGH SUPPRESSANT TOPICAL ANALGESIC Compare to Vicks VapoRub NET WT 3 . 53 OZ ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
