Rx only WARNING ZANOSAR should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents .
A patient need not be hospitalized but should have access to a facility with laboratory and supportive resources sufficient to monitor drug tolerance and to protect and maintain a patient compromised by drug toxicity .
Renal toxicity is dose - related and cumulative and may be severe or fatal .
Other major toxicities are nausea and vomiting which may be severe and at times treatment - limiting .
In addition , liver dysfunction , diarrhea , and hematological changes have been observed in some patients .
Streptozocin is mutagenic .
When administered parenterally , it has been found to be tumorigenic or carcinogenic in some rodents .
The physician must judge the possible benefit to the patient against the known toxic effects of this drug in considering the advisability of therapy with ZANOSAR .
The physician should be familiar with the following text before making a judgment and beginning treatment .
DESCRIPTION Each vial of ZANOSAR contains 1 g of the active ingredient streptozocin 2 - deoxy - 2 [ [ ( methylnitrosoamino ) carbonyl ] amino ] - α ( and ß ) - D - glucopyranose and 220 mg citric acid anhydrous .
ZANOSAR is available as a sterile , pale yellow , freeze - dried preparation for intravenous administration .
The pH was adjusted with sodium hydroxide .
When reconstituted as directed , the pH of the solution will be between 3 . 5 and 4 . 5 .
Streptozocin is a synthetic antineoplastic agent that is chemically related to other nitrosoureas used in cancer chemotherapy .
Streptozocin is an ivory - colored crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 265 . 2 .
It is very soluble in water or physiological saline and is soluble in alcohol .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Streptozocin inhibits DNA synthesis in bacterial and mammalian cells .
In bacterial cells , a specific interaction with cytosine moieties leads to degradation of DNA .
The biochemical mechanism leading to mammalian cell death has not been definitely established ; streptozocin inhibits cell proliferation at a considerably lower level than that needed to inhibit precursor incorporation into DNA or to inhibit several of the enzymes involved in DNA synthesis .
Although streptozocin inhibits the progression of cells into mitosis , no specific phase of the cell cycle is particularly sensitive to its lethal effects .
Streptozocin is active in the L1210 leukemic mouse over a fairly wide range of parenteral dosage schedules .
In experiments in many animal species , streptozocin induced a diabetes that resembles human hyperglycemic nonketotic diabetes mellitus .
This phenomenon , which has been extensively studied , appears to be mediated through a lowering of beta cell nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NAD ) and consequent histopathologic alteration of pancreatic islet beta cells .
The metabolism and the chemical dissociation of streptozocin that occurs under physiologic conditions has not been extensively studied .
When administered intravenously to a variety of experimental animals , streptozocin disappears from the blood very rapidly .
In all species tested , it was found to concentrate in the liver and kidney .
As much as 20 % of the drug ( or metabolites containing an N - nitrosourea group ) is metabolized and / or excreted by the kidney .
Metabolic products have not yet been identified .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZANOSAR is indicated in the treatment of metastatic islet cell carcinoma of the pancreas .
Responses have been obtained with both functional and nonfunctional carcinomas .
Because of its inherent renal toxicity , therapy with this drug should be limited to patients with symptomatic or progressive metastatic disease .
WARNINGS Renal Toxicity Many patients treated with ZANOSAR have experienced renal toxicity , as evidenced by azotemia , anuria , hypophosphatemia , glycosuria and renal tubular acidosis .
Such toxicity is dose - related and cumulative and may be severe or fatal .
Renal function must be monitored before and after each course of therapy .
Serial urinalysis , blood urea nitrogen , plasma creatinine , serum electrolytes and creatinine clearance should be obtained prior to , at least weekly during , and for four weeks after drug administration .
Serial urinalysis is particularly important for the early detection of proteinuria and should be quantitated with a 24 hour collection when proteinuria is detected .
Mild proteinuria is one of the first signs of renal toxicity and may herald further deterioration of renal function .
Reduction of the dose of ZANOSAR or discontinuation of treatment is suggested in the presence of significant renal toxicity .
Adequate hydration may help reduce the risk of nephrotoxicity to renal tubular epithelium by decreasing renal and urinary concentration of the drug and its metabolites .
Use of ZANOSAR in patients with preexisting renal disease requires a judgment by the physician of potential benefit as opposed to the known risk of serious renal damage .
This drug should not be used in combination with or concomitantly with other potential nephrotoxins .
When exposed dermally , some rats developed benign tumors at the site of application of streptozocin .
Consequently , streptozocin may pose a carcinogenic hazard following topical exposure if not properly handled .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
See additional warnings at the beginning of this insert .
PRECAUTIONS Injection - Site Reactions ZANOSAR sterile powder is irritating to tissues .
Extravasation may cause severe tissue lesions and necrosis .
Drug Interactions ZANOSAR may demonstrate additive toxicity when used in combination with other cytotoxic drugs .
Streptozocin has been reported to prolong the elimination half - life of doxorubicin and may lead to severe bone marrow suppression ; a reduction of the doxorubicin dosage should be considered in patients receiving ZANOSAR concurrently .
The concurrent use of streptozocin and phenytoin has been reported in one case to result in reduced streptozocin cytotoxicity .
Information for Patients Confusion , lethargy , and depression have been reported in a limited number of patients receiving continuous intravenous infusion of ZANOSAR for 5 days .
Patients should be informed that there may be a potential risk in driving or using complex machinery .
Laboratory Tests Patients who are treated with ZANOSAR must be monitored closely , particularly for evidence of renal , hepatic , and hematopoietic toxicity .
Renal function tests are described in the WARNINGS section .
Patients should also be monitored closely for evidence of hematopoietic and hepatic toxicities .
Complete blood counts and liver function tests should be done at least weekly .
Dosage adjustments or discontinuance of the drug may be indicated , depending upon the degree of toxicity noted .
Mutagenesis , Carcinogenesis , Impairment of Fertility Streptozocin is mutagenic in bacteria , plants , and mammalian cells .
When administered parenterally , it has been shown to induce renal tumors in rats and to induce liver tumors and other tumors in hamsters .
Stomach and pancreatic tumors were observed in rats treated orally with streptozocin .
Streptozocin has also been shown to be carcinogenic in mice .
Streptozocin adversely affected fertility when administered to male and female rats .
Reproduction studies revealed that streptozocin is teratogenic in the rat and has abortifacient effects in rabbits .
When administered intravenously to pregnant monkeys , it appears rapidly in the fetal circulation .
There are no studies in pregnant women .
ZANOSAR should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether streptozocin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , nursing should be discontinued in patients receiving ZANOSAR .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of streptozocin did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether there was a difference in either efficacy or toxicity as compared to younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in efficacy or safety between the elderly and younger patient populations .
In general , dose selection for elderly patients should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Renal See WARNINGS .
Gastrointestinal Most patients treated with ZANOSAR have experienced severe nausea and vomiting , occasionally requiring discontinuation of drug therapy .
Some patients experienced diarrhea .
A number of patients have experienced hepatic toxicity , as characterized by elevated liver enzyme ( SGOT and LDH ) levels and hypoalbuminemia .
Hematological Hematological toxicity has been rare , most often involving mild decreases in hematocrit values .
However , fatal hematological toxicity with substantial reductions in leukocyte and platelet count has been observed .
Metabolic Mild to moderate abnormalities of glucose tolerance have been noted in some patients treated with ZANOSAR .
These have generally been reversible , but insulin shock with hypoglycemia has been observed .
Genitourinary Two cases of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus following therapy with ZANOSAR have been reported .
One had spontaneous recovery and the second responded to indomethacin .
Post - Marketing Experience Spontaneous reports have been received of local inflammation ( i . e . , edema , erythema , burning , tenderness ) following extravasation of the product .
In most cases , these events resolved the same day or within a few days .
OVERDOSAGE No specific antidote for ZANOSAR is known .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ZANOSAR sterile powder should be administered intravenously by rapid injection or short / prolonged infusion .
It is not active orally .
Although it has been administered intraarterially , this is not recommended pending further evaluation of the possibility that adverse renal effects may be evoked more rapidly by this route of administration .
Two different dosage schedules have been employed successfully with ZANOSAR .
Daily Schedule — The recommended dose for daily intravenous administration is 500 mg / m2 of body surface area for five consecutive days every six weeks until maximum benefit or until treatment - limiting toxicity is observed .
Dose escalation on this schedule is not recommended .
Weekly Schedule — The recommended initial dose for weekly intravenous administration is 1000 mg / m2 of body surface area at weekly intervals for the first two courses ( weeks ) .
In subsequent courses , drug doses may be escalated in patients who have not achieved a therapeutic response and who have not experienced significant toxicity with the previous course of treatment .
However , A SINGLE DOSE OF 1500 mg / m2 BODY SURFACE AREA SHOULD NOT BE EXCEEDED as a greater dose may cause azotemia .
When administered on this schedule , the median time to onset of response is about 17 days and the median time to maximum response is about 35 days .
The median total dose to onset of response is about 2000 mg / m2 body surface area and the median total dose to maximum response is about 4000 mg / m2 body surface area .
The ideal duration of maintenance therapy with ZANOSAR has not yet been clearly established for either of the above schedules .
For patients with functional tumors , serial monitoring of fasting insulin levels allows a determination of biochemical response to therapy .
For patients with either functional or nonfunctional tumors , response to therapy can be determined by measurable reductions of tumor size ( reduction of organomegaly , masses , or lymph nodes ) .
Reconstitute ZANOSAR with 9 . 5 mL of dextrose injection , USP , or 0 . 9 % sodium chloride injection , USP .
The resulting pale - gold solution will contain 100 mg of streptozocin and 22 mg of citric acid per mL .
Where more dilute infusion solutions are desirable , further dilution in the above vehicles is recommended .
The total storage time for streptozocin after it has been placed in solution should not exceed 12 hours .
This product contains no preservatives and is not intended as a multiple - dose vial .
Caution in the handling and preparation of the powder and solution should be exercised , and the use of gloves is recommended .
If the sterile powder of ZANOSAR or a solution prepared from ZANOSAR contacts the skin or mucosae , immediately wash the affected area with soap and water .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 – 7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
HOW SUPPLIED ZANOSAR is supplied as follows : NDC Number Vial Package 0703 - 4636 - 01 1 gram vials Packaged Individually Unopened vials of ZANOSAR should be stored at refrigeration temperatures ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) and protected from light ( preferably stored in carton ) .
REFERENCES • Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs , NIH Publication No . 83 - 2621 .
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington , DC 20402 .
• AMA Council Report .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA .
1985 ; 2 . 53 ( 11 ) : 1590 – 1592 .
• National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure - Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , ScD .
, Chairman , National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure , Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Sciences , 179 Longwood Avenue , Boston , Massachusetts 02115 .
• Clinical Oncological Society of Australia , Guidelines and Recommendations for Safe Handling of Antineoplastic Agents .
Med J Australia , 1983 ; 1 : 426 – 428 .
• Jones RB , et al : Safe Handling of Chemotherapeutic Agents : A Report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
CA — A Cancer Journal for Clinicians , 1983 ; ( Sept / Oct ) 258 – 263 .
• American Society of Hospital Pharmacists Technical Assistance Bulletin on Handling Cytotoxic and Hazardous Drugs .
AM J . Hosp Pharm , 1990 ; 47 : 1033 – 1049 .
• Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines ) , Am J Health - Syst Pharm , 1996 ; 53 : 1669 – 1685 .
Manufactured for : Teva Pharmaceuticals Parsippany , NJ 07054 © 2022 Teva Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Revised : January 2022 ZAN - 002 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 gram Vial Carton NDC 0703 - 4636 - 01 Rx only Zanosar ® ( streptozocin sterile powder ) 1 gram For Intravenous Use Only Single Dose Vial TEVA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
