Capsaicin 0 . 075 % Cream Drug Facts Active ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 075 % Purpose External analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • sprains Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use .
Test first on small area of skin .
Do not use • On wounds or damaged skin • If you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product • You may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • Condition worsens or does not improve after regular use • Severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : Apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed unless treating hands .
Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application for best results .
Apply 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 18 years : Ask a doctor Other information Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Arnica Montana Flower Extract , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Cetearyl Alcohol , Chondroitin Sulfate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glucosamine Sulfate , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Isostearyl Palmitate , Laureth - 7 , Methylsufonylmethane ( MSM ) , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyacrylamide , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Stearic Acid , and Triethanolamine PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Capsaicin 0 . 075 % Cream NDC 50488 - 1075 - 6 120 grams Alexso , Inc [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
