Active Ingredients Active Ingredient [ s ] / Purpose Alcohol 80 % v / v .......... Antiseptic Do Not Use Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds Purpose : Use [ s ] Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Stop Use Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When Using When using this product keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Other Information Other Information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Warnings and Precautions Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Inacative Ingredients Section Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Dosage and Administration Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Warning For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Indications & Usage Section Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Keep out of Reach Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Recent Major Changes Section N / A Original Label When substantive labeling changes have been made to any of the following sections of the FPI within the preceding 12 months , the heading ( s ) of the changed section ( s ) must be listed in Highlights under the heading Recent Major Changes ( § 201 . 57 ( a ) ( 5 ) ) : • Boxed Warning • Indications and Usage • Dosage and Administration • Contraindications • Warnings and Precautions Changes that must not be listed in Recent Major Changes include : • Changes to sections other than the five listed above • Changes that are not substantive ( i . e . , minor revisions such as correcting typographical errors or grammatical changes ) • Changes resulting from converting to the PLR format alone a .
What must be included ?
Each listing must include the section heading , the subsection heading ( if appropriate ) , identifying number of the corresponding changed section or subsection , and the date on which the change was incorporated in the labeling ( i . e . , date the supplement was approved ) in month / year format ( e . g . , 6 / 2010 or Jun 2010 ) ( § 201 . 57 ( a ) ( 5 ) ) .
Primary Display Panel Nelson ' s Green Brier Distillery Alcohol Antiseptic 80 % Topical Solution Hand Sanitizer Non - sterile Solution 118 . 3 mL Not for Resale Not for Consumption [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
