DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride is an oral antihyperglycemic drug used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride ( N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 63 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water and is practically insoluble in acetone , ether and chloroform .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 68 .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets contain 500 mg , 850 mg and 1000 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : crospovidone , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , maltodextrin , polyethylene glycol , povidone , stearic acid .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism Of Action : Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics : Absorption And Bioavailability : The absolute bioavailability of a metformin hydrochloride 500 mg tablet given under fasting conditions is approximately 50 - 60 % .
Studies using single oral doses of metformin tablets of 500 mg or 1500 mg , and 850 mg to 2550 mg , indicate that there is a lack of dose proportionality with increasing doses , which is due to decreased absorption rather than an alteration in elimination .
Food decreases the extent of and slightly delays the absorption of metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak concentration ( Cmax ) and 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) following administration of a single 850 mg tablet of metformin with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
The clinical relevance of these decreases is unknown .
Distribution : The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin hydrochloride tablets , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 - 48 hours and are generally < 1 μg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 μg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism And Elimination : Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Special Populations : Patients with type 2 diabetes : In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) , nor is there any accumulation of metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
Renal Insufficiency : In subjects with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatic lnsufficiency : No pharmacokinetic studies have been conducted in subjects with hepatic insufficiency .
Geriatrics : Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ) .
Metformin treatment should not be initiated in patients > 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced .
( See WARNINGSand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Table 1 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformina All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies ; b Peak plasma concentration ; c Time to peak plasma concentration ; d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 - 59 yrs ) .
e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 - 81 years ) g CLcr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m2 Subject Groups : Metformindosea ( number of subjects ) Cmax b ( μg / mL ) Tmax c ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderlyf , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single doseMild ( CLcr g 61 - 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) Moderate ( CLcr 31 - 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) Severe ( CLcr 10 - 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) Pediatrics : No pharmacokinetic data from studies of pediatric patients are currently available .
Gender : Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Similarly , in controlled clinical studies in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect of metformin hydrochloride tablets was comparable in males and females .
Race : No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In controlled clinical studies of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes , the antihyperglycemic effect was comparable in whites ( n = 249 ) , blacks ( n = 51 ) and hispanics ( n = 24 ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES : In a double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter U . S . clinical trial involving obese patients with type 2 diabetes whose hyperglycemia was not adequately controlled with dietary management alone ( baseline fasting plasma glucose [ FPG ] of approximately 240 mg / dL ) , treatment with metformin ( up to 2550 mg / day ) for 29 weeks resulted in significant mean net reductions in fasting and postprandial plasma glucose ( PPG ) and HbA1c of 59 mg / dL , 83 mg / dL , and 1 . 8 % , respectively , compared to placebo group ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Metformin vs Placebo Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Plasma Glucose , HbA1c and Body Weight , at Final Visit ( 29 - week study ) Metformin ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) P - Value All patients on diet therapy at Baseline ** Not statistically significant FPG ( mg / dL ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 241 . 5 - 53 . 0 237 . 76 . 3 NS ** 0 . 001 Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 8 . 4 - 1 . 4 8 . 20 . 4 NS ** 0 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs . )
BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 201 . 0 - 1 . 4 206 . 0 - 2 . 4 NS ** NS ** A 29 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin and glyburide , alone and in combination , was conducted in obese patients with type 2 diabetes patients who had failed to achieve adequate glycemic control while on maximum doses of glyburide ( baseline FPG of approximately 250 mg / dL ) ( see Table 3 ) .
Patients randomized to continue on glyburide experienced worsening of glycemic control , with mean increases in FPG , PPG and HbA1c of 14 mg / dL , 3 mg / dL and 0 . 2 % , respectively .
In contrast , those randomized to metformin ( up to 2500 mg / day ) did not experience a deterioration in glycemic control , but rather a slight improvement , with mean reductions in FPG , PPG and HbA1c of 1 mg / dL , 6 mg / dL and 0 . 4 % , respectively .
The combination of metformin and glyburide was synergistic in reducing FPG , PPG and HbA1c levels by 63 mg / dL , 65 mg / dL , and 1 . 7 % , respectively .
Compared to results of glyburide treatment alone , the net differences with combination treatment were - 77 mg / dL , - 68 mg / dL and - 1 . 9 % , respectively ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Combined Metformin / Glyburide ( Comb ) vs Glyburide ( Glyb ) or Metformin ( MET ) Monotherapy : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Plasma Glucose , HbA1c and Body Weight , at Final Visit ( 29 - week study ) Comb ( n = 213 ) Glyb ( n = 209 ) MET ( n = 210 ) Glyb vs . Comb p - values MET vs . Comb MET vs . Glyb * All patients on glyburide , 20 mg / day , at Baseline ** Not statistically significant Fasting PlasmaGlucose ( mg / dL ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 250 . 5 - 63 . 5 247 . 513 . 7 253 . 9 - 0 . 9 NS ** 0 . 001 NS ** 0 . 001 NS ** 0 . 025 Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 8 . 8 - 1 . 7 8 . 50 . 2 8 . 9 - 0 . 4 NS ** 0 . 001 NS ** 0 . 001 0 . 0070 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs . )
BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 202 . 20 . 9 203 . 0 - 0 . 7 204 . 0 - 8 . 4 NS ** 0 . 011 NS ** 0 . 001 NS ** 0 . 001 The magnitude of the decline in fasting blood glucose concentration following the institution of metformin hydrochloride tablets therapy is proportional to the level of fasting hyperglycemia .
Patients with type 2 diabetes with higher fasting glucose concentrations experienced greater declines in plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin .
In clinical studies , metformin , alone or in combination with a sulfonylurea , lowered mean fasting serum triglycerides , total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels and had no adverse effects on other lipid levels ( see Table 4 ) .
Table 4 : Summary of Mean Percent Change from Baseline of Major Serum Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 29 - week studies ) Metformin vs . Placebo Combined Metformin / Glyburide vs . Monotherapy Metformin ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) Metformin ( n = 210 ) Metformin / Glyburide ( n = 213 ) Glyburide ( n = 209 ) Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) BaselineMean % changeat FINAL VISIT 211 . 0 - 5 % 212 . 31 % 213 . 1 - 2 % 215 . 6 - 4 % 219 . 61 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) BaselineMean % changeat FINAL VISIT 236 . 1 - 16 % 203 . 51 % 242 . 5 - 3 % 215 . 0 - 8 % 266 . 14 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) BaselineMean % changeat FINAL VISIT 135 . 4 - 8 % 138 . 51 % 134 . 3 - 4 % 136 . 0 - 6 % 137 . 53 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) BaselineMean % changeat FINAL VISIT 39 . 02 % 40 . 5 - 1 % 37 . 25 % 39 . 03 % 37 . 01 % In contrast to sulfonylureas , body weight of individuals on metformin tended to remain stable or even decrease somewhat ( see Tables 2 and 3 ) .
A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who failed to achieve adequate glycemic control on insulin alone ( see Table 5 ) .
Patients randomized to receive metformin plus insulin achieved a reduction in HbA1c of 2 . 10 % , compared to a 1 . 56 % reduction in HbA1c achieved by insulin plus placebo .
The improvement in glycemic control was achieved at the final study visit with 16 % less insulin , 93 . 0 U / day vs 110 . 6 U / day , metformin plus insulin versus insulin plus placebo , respectively , p = 0 . 04 .
Table 5 .
Combine Metformin / Insulin vs Placebo / Insulin Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline in HbA1c and Daily Insulin Dose Metformin / Insulin n = 26 Placebo / Insulin n = 28 Treatment difference Mean ± SE aStatistically significant using analysis of covariance with baseline as covariate ( p = 0 . 04 ) Not significant using analysis of variance ( values shown in table ) bStatistically signifivant for insulin ( p = 0 . 04 ) Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 8 . 95 - 2 . 10 9 . 32 - 1 . 56 - 0 . 54 ± 0 . 43 a Insulin Dose ( U / day ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT 93 . 12 - 0 . 15 94 . 6415 . 93 - 16 . 08 ± 7 . 77 b A second double - blind , placebo - controlled study ( n = 51 ) , with 16 weeks of randomized treatment , demonstrated that in patients with type 2 diabetes controlled on insulin for 8 weeks with an average HbA1c of 7 . 46 ± 0 . 97 % , the addition of metformin maintained similar glycemic control ( HbA1c 7 . 15 ± 0 . 61 versus 6 . 97 ± 0 . 62 for metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , respectively ) with 19 % less insulin versus baseline ( reduction of 23 . 68 ± 30 . 22 versus an increase of 0 . 43 ± 25 . 20 units for metformin plus insulin and placebo plus insulin , p < 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study demonstrated that the combination of metformin hydrochloride tablets plus insulin resulted in reduction in body weight of 3 . 11 ± 4 . 30 lbs , compared to an increase of 1 . 30 ± 6 . 08 lbs for placebo plus insulin , p = 0 . 01 .
Pediatric Clinical Studies : In a double - blind , placebo - controlled study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes ( mean FPG 182 . 2 mg / dL ) , treatment with metformin ( up to 2000 mg / day ) for up to 16 weeks ( mean duration of treatment 11 weeks ) resulted in a significant mean net reduction in FPG of 64 . 3 mg / dL , compared with placebo ( see Table 6 ) .
Table 6 .
Metformin vs Placebo ( Pediatricsa ) Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in Plasma Glucose and Body Weight at Final Visit Metformin Placebo p - Value aPediatric patients mean age 13 . 8 years ( range 10 - 16 years ) * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline ** Not statistically significant FPG ( mg / dL ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT ( n = 37 ) 162 . 4 - 42 . 9 ( n = 36 ) 192 . 321 . 4 < 0 . 001 Body Weight ( lbs ) BaselineChange at FINAL VISIT ( n = 39 ) 205 . 3 - 3 . 3 ( n = 38 ) 189 . 0 - 2 . 0 NS ** INDICATIONS AND USAGE Metformin hydrochloride tablets , as monotherapy , are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes .
Metformin is indicated in patients 10 years of age and older .
Metformin may be used concomitantly with a sulfonylurea or insulin to improve glycemic control in adults ( 17 years of age nd older ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with : 1 .
Renal disease or renal dysfunction ( e . g . , as suggested by serum creatinine levels ≥ 1 . 5 mg / dL [ males ] , ≥ 1 . 4 mg / dL [ females ] or abnormal creatinine clearance ) which may also result from conditions such as cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , and septicemia ( see WARNlNGSand PRECAUTIONS ) .
2 .
Congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic treatment .
3 .
Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride .
4 .
Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
Metformin should be temporarily discontinued in patients undergoing radiologic studies involving intravascular administration of iodinated contrast materials , because use of such products may result in acute alteration of renal function ( See also PRECAUTIONS ) .
WARNINGS … BOXED WARNING Lactic Acidosis : Lactic acidosis is a rare , but serious , metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with metformin ; when it occurs , it is fatal in approximately 50 % of cases .
Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions , including diabetes mellitus , and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia .
Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / L ) , decreased blood pH , electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap , and an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio .
When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis , metformin plasma levels > 5 g / mL are generally found .
The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride is very low ( approximately 0 . 03 cases / 1000 patient - years , with approximately 0 . 015 fatal cases / 1000 patient - years ) .
Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency , including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion , often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical / surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications .
Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management , in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia are at increased risk of lactic acidosis .
The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient ’ s age .
The risk of lactic acidosis may , therefore , be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking metformin and by use of the minimum effective dose of metformin .
In particular , treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function .
Metformin treatment should not be initiated in patients > 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced , as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis .
In addition , metformin should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia , dehydration or sepsis .
Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate , metformin should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , when taking metformin hydrochloride tablets , since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin hydrochloride on lactate metabolism .
ln addition , metformin should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle , and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , increasing somnolence and nonspecific abdominal distress .
There may be associated hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis .
The patient and the patient ’ s physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur ( see also PRECAUTIONS ) .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified .
Serum electrolytes , ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate levels and even blood metformin levels may be useful .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol / L in patients taking metformin do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms , such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity , vigorous physical activity , or technical problems in sample handling .
( See also PRECAUTIONS . )
Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis ( ketonuria and ketonemia ) .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting .
In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking metformin , the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted .
Because metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable ( with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin .
Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery .
( See also CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Monitoring Of Renal Function : Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function .
Thus , patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive metformin .
In patients with advanced age , metformin should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect , because aging is associated with reduced renal function .
In elderly patients , particularly those > 80 years of age , renal function should be monitored regularly and , generally , metformin should not be titrated to the maximum dose ( see WARNINGSand DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Before initiation of metformin therapy and at least annually thereafter , renal function should be assessed and verified as normal .
In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated , renal function should be assessed more frequently and metformin discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present .
Use Of Concomitant Medications That May Affect Renal Function Or Metformin Disposition : Concomitant medication ( s ) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin , such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion ( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) , should be used with caution .
Radiologic Studies Involving The Use Of Intravascular Iodinated Contrast Materials ( For Example , Intravenous Urogram , Intravenous Cholangiography , Angiography , And Computed Tomography ( CT ) Scans With Contrast Materials ) : Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin ( see CONTRAINDlCATlONS ) .
Therefore , in patients in whom any such study is planned , metformin should be discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure , and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re - evaluated and found to be normal .
Hypoxic States : Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) from whatever cause , acute congestive heart failure , acute myocardial infarction and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia .
When such events occur in patients on metformin therapy , the drug should be promptly discontinued .
Surgical Procedures : Metformin therapy should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure ( except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids ) and should not be restarted until the patient ’ s oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal .
Alcohol Intake : Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving metformin .
Impaired Hepatic Function : Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis , metformin should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 Levels : A decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , is observed in approximately 7 % of patients receiving metformin in controlled clinical trials of 29 weeks duration .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at two - to three - year intervals may be useful .
Change In Clinical Status Of Patients With Previously Controlled Type 2 Diabetes : A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on metformin hydrochloride tablets who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate and metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , metformin must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia : Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Loss Of Control Of Blood Glucose : When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur .
At such times , it may be necessary to withhold metformin and temporarily administer insulin .
Metformin may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved .
The effectiveness of oral antidiabetic drugs in lowering blood glucose to a targeted level decreases in many patients over a period of time .
This phenomenon , which may be due to progression of the underlying disease or to diminished responsiveness to the drug , is known as secondary failure , to distinguish it from primary failure in which the drug is ineffective during initial therapy .
Should secondary failure occur with metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy , combined therapy with metformin and sulfonylurea may result in a response .
Should secondary failure occur with combined metformin / sulfonylurea therapy , it may be necessary to consider therapeutic alternatives including initiation of insulin therapy .
Information For Patients : Patients should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of metformin and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNlNGSand PRECAUTlONSsections should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counselled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets alone do not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin is used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients .
( See Patient InformationPrinted Below ) Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis .
While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with metformin therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation Of Drug Interactions Done With Metformin ) : Glyburide : In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes subjects , co - administration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and Cmax were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ; Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide : A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by co - administration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood Cmax by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically .
Nifedipine : A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co - administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
Tmax and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Cationic Drugs : Cationic drugs ( e . g . , amiloride , digoxin , morphine , procainamide , quinidine , quinine , ranitidine , triamterene , trimethoprim , and vancomycin ) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other : Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin , the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control .
In healthy volunteers , the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when co - administered in single - dose interaction studies .
Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is , therefore , less likely to interact with highly protein - bound drugs such as salicylates , sulfonamides , chloramphenicol , and probenecid , as compared to the sulfonylureas , which are extensively bound to serum proteins .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose on a body surface area basis .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
However , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps was seen in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
No evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin was found in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin adminstration at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately three times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy category B : Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , metfomin should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with metfomin .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about two and six times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If metformin is discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of metformin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes have been established in pediatric patients ages 10 to 16 years ( studies have not been conducted in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years ) .
Use of metformin in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of metformin in adults with additional data from a controlled clinical study in pediatric patients ages 10 - 16 years with type 2 diabetes , which demonstrated a similar response in glycemic control to that seen in adults .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pediatric Clinical Studies . )
In this study , adverse effects were similar to those described in adults .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS : Pediatric Patients . )
A maximum daily dose of 2000 mg is recommended .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Recommended Dosing Schedule : Pediatrics . )
Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney and because the risk of serious adverse reactions to the drug is greater in patients with impaired renal function , it should only be used in patients with normal renal function ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because aging is associated with reduced renal function , metformin should be used with caution as age increases .
Care should be taken in dose selection and should be based on careful and regular monitoring of renal function .
Generally , elderly patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin ( see also WARNlNGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a U . S . double - blind clinical study of metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received metformin therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin patients , and that were more common in metformin - than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 . 0 % ) in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin Monotherapy * Metformin Monotherapy n = 141 Placebo n = 145 Adverse Reactions % of Patients * Reactions that were more common in metformin - than placebo - treated patients .
Diarrhea 53 . 2 11 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 25 . 5 8 . 3 Flatulence 12 . 1 5 . 5 Asthenia 9 . 2 5 . 5 Indigestion 7 . 1 4 . 1 Abdominal Discomfort 6 . 4 4 . 8 Headache 5 . 7 4 . 8 Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with metformin .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 . 0 - ≤ 5 . 0 % of metformin patients and were more commonly reported with metformin than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
Pediatric Patients : In clinical trials with metformin in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
OVERDOSAGE Hypoglycemia has not been seen even with ingestion of up to 85 grams of metformin , although lactic acidosis has occurred in such circumstances ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily dose .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 2550 mg in adults and 2000 mg in pediatric patients ( 10 - 16 years of age ) .
Metformin should be given in divided doses with meals and should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Recommended Dosing Schedule : Adults : In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets is 500 mg twice a day or 850 mg once a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly or 850 mg every 2 weeks , up to a total of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Patients can also be titrated from 500 mg twice a day to 850 mg twice a day after 2 weeks .
For those patients requiring additional glycemic control , metformin may be given to a maximum daily dose of 2550 mg per day .
Doses above 2000 mg may be better tolerated given three times a day with meals .
Pediatrics : The usual starting dose of metformin tablets is 500 mg twice a day , given with meals .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly up to a maximum of 2000 mg per day , given in divided doses .
Transfer From Other Antidiabetic Therapy : When transferring patients from standard oral hypoglycemic agents other than chlorpropamide to metformin , no transition period generally is necessary .
When transferring patients from chlorpropamide , care should be exercised during the first two weeks because of the prolonged retention of chlorpropamide in the body , leading to overlapping drug effects and possible hypoglycemia .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride And Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy In Adult Patients : If patients have not responded to four weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride tablets at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With metformin hydrochloride and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken ( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea ) .
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to one to three months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin and the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin .
Concomitant Metformin And Insulin Therapy In Adult Patients : The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin therapy .
Metformin therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin tablets should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2500 mg .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations : Metformin is not recommended in patients below the age of 10 years .
Pediatric dosing information for metformin , as monotherapy , is approved for Bristol - Myers Squibb Company ' s metformin hydrochloride tablets .
However , due to Bristol - Myers Squibb ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled for pediatric use .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
( See WARNINGS . )
HOW SUPPLIED Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets are available as follows : 500 mg — Each white to off - white , oval , film coated tablet imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] 657 on one side and plain on the other contains 500 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2657 - 11 ) with a child - resistant closure and bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2657 - 10 ) , 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2657 - 50 ) and 1000 ( NDC 0228 - 2657 - 96 ) without a child - resistant closure .
850 mg — Each white to off - white , oval , film coated tablet imprinted with [ MULTIMEDIA ] 715 on one side and plain on the other contains 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2715 - 11 ) with a child - resistant closure and bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2715 - 10 ) , 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2715 - 50 ) and 1000 ( NDC 0228 - 2715 - 96 ) without a child - resistant closure .
1000 mg — Each white to off - white , oval , film coated tablet imprinted twice with [ MULTIMEDIA ] on one side and twice with 718 on the other and bisected on both sides contains 1000 mg of metformin hydrochloride .
Tablets are supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2718 - 11 ) with a child - resistant closure and bottles of 100 ( NDC 0228 - 2718 - 10 ) , 500 ( NDC 0228 - 2718 - 50 ) and 1000 ( NDC 0228 - 2718 - 96 ) without a child - resistant closure .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Rx only Manufactured by : PUREPAC PHARMACEUTICAL CO .
Elizabeth , NJ 07207 USA 40 - 8871 Rev — September 2002 Medguide PHARMACIST – DETACH HERE AND GIVE PATIENT INFORMATION SHEET TO PATIENT --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE TABLETS Rev – September 2002 Read this information carefully before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of your doctor ' s advice .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What is metformin ?
Metformin is used to treat type 2 diabetes .
This is also known as non - insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
People with type 2 diabetes are not able to make enough insulin or respond normally to the insulin their bodies make .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems including kidney damage , amputations , and blindness .
Diabetes is also closely linked to heart disease .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of medicines taken by mouth , and by insulin shots .
Before you take metformin , try to control your diabetes by exercise and weight loss .
While you take your diabetes medicine , continue to exercise and follow the diet advised for your diabetes .
No matter what your recommended diabetes management plan is , studies have shown that maintaining good blood sugar control can prevent or delay complications of diabetes , such as blindness .
Metformin helps control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin does not cause your body to make more insulin .
Because of this , when taken alone , they rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , and usually do not cause weight gain .
However , when they are taken with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia is more likely to occur , as is weight gain .
WARNING : A small number of people who have taken metformin have developed a serious condition called lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is caused by a build - up of lactic acid in the blood .
This happens more often in people with kidney problems .
Most people with kidney problems should not take metformin .
( See " What are the side effects of metformin ? " )
Who should not take metformin ?
Some conditions increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis , or cause other problems if you take metformin .
Most of the conditions listed below can increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis .
Do not take metformin if you : • have kidney problems • have liver problems • have heart failure that is treated with medicines , such as Lanoxin ® ( digoxin ) or Lasix ® ( furosemide ) • drink a lot of alcohol .
This means you binge drink for short periods or drink all the time • are seriously dehydrated ( have lost a lot of water from your body ) • are going to have an x - ray procedure with injection of dyes ( contrast agents ) • are going to have surgery • develop a serious condition , such as heart attack , severe infection , or a stroke • are 80 years or older and you have NOT had your kidney function tested Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metformin may not be right for you .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
You should also discuss your choices with your doctor if you are nursing a child .
Can metformin hydrochloride tablets be used in children ?
Metformin has been shown to effectively lower glucose levels in children ( ages 10 to 16 years ) with type 2 diabetes .
Metformin has not been studied in children younger than 10 years old .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets have not been studied in combination with other oral glucose - control medicines or insulin in children .
If you have any questions about the use of metformin hydrochloride tablets in children , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
How should I take metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
Your doctor will tell you how much medicine to take and when to take it .
You will probably start out with a low dose of the medicine .
Your doctor may slowly increase your dose until your blood sugar is better controlled .
You should take metformin with meals .
Your doctor may have you take other medicines along with metformin to control your blood sugar .
These medicines may include insulin shots .
Taking metformin with insulin may help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose .
Continue your exercise and diet program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking metformin .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that metformin causes harm to the liver or kidneys .
Tell your doctor if you • have an illness that causes severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a much lower amount of liquid than normal .
These conditions can lead to severe dehydration ( loss of water in your body ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin for a short time .
• plan to have surgery or an x - ray procedure with injection of dye ( contrast agent ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride tablets for a short time .
• start to take other medicines or change how you take a medicine .
Metformin can affect how well other drugs work , and some drugs can affect how well metformin works .
Some medicines may cause high blood sugar .
What should I avoid while taking metformin hydrochloride tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of metformin ?
Lactic Acidosis .
In rare cases , metformin can cause a serious side effect called lactic acidosis .
This is caused by a build - up of lactic acid in your blood .
This build - up can cause serious damage .
Lactic acidosis caused by metformin is rare and has occurred mostly in people whose kidneys were not working normally .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in about one in 33 , 000 patients taking metformin over the course of a year .
Although rare , if lactic acidosis does occur , it can be fatal in up to half the people who develop it .
It is also important for your liver to be working normally when you take metformin .
Your liver helps remove lactic acid from your blood .
Make sure you tell your doctor before you use metformin if you have kidney or liver problems .
You should also stop using metformin and call your doctor right away if you have signs of lactic acidosis .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital .
Signs of lactic acidosis are : • feeling very weak , tired , or uncomfortable • unusual muscle pain • trouble breathing • unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort • feeling cold • feeling dizzy or lightheaded • suddenly developing a slow or irregular heartbeat If your medical condition suddenly changes , stop taking metformin and call your doctor right away .
This may be a sign of lactic acidosis or another serious side effect .
Other Side Effects .
Common side effects of metformin include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ' ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take metformin have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin rarely causes hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol , or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
General advice about prescription medicines If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about metformin that is written for health care professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use metformin for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
Manufactured by : PUREPAC PHARMACEUTICAL CO .
Elizabeth , NJ 07207 USA Rev — September 2002 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
