Active Ingredient Hydroquinone ( 2 % ) Indication Skin Lightening Indication To gradually lighten hyperpigmentation of the skin such as age spots , liver spots , freckles , or other areas of unwanted melanin hyperpigmentation that may occur in pregnancy or from the use of oral contraceptives .
Precautions For external use only .
A mild transient stinging may occur for people with sensitive skin .
Do not use on broken or irritated skin .
Discontinue use if irritation or rash occurs .
Avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes .
In case of contact , rinse thoroughly with water .
Do not use on children under 12 years of age .
Keep out of reach of children .
Avoid use around the eyes and lips .
Precautions keep away from children .
Directions Remove and discard solid white cap from bottle and replace with dropper cap .
Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying 1 or 2 drops of SEEQUIN ™ 2 IDS ™ Liquid Gel S - erum * to an area of unbroken skin about 25 mm in diameter .
If excessive irritation , rash or other reaction develops within 24 hours , discontinue use .
To apply , place 1 to 2 drops of SEEQUIN ™ 2 IDS ™ Liquid Gel S - erum * in the palm of your hand and use fingertips to apply a thin layer to the affected areas .
Use both morning and night or as directed by a physician .
Depigmentation is a gradual process and results should be expected within 12 weeks of daily use .
Discontinue use if no results are apparent after 8 weeks .
To maintain results , use several times per week or as directed by a physician .
Limit sun exposure during treatment by using protective clothing or a sunscreen protective agent to avoid re - darkening of the skin .
Close dropper cap securely after each use .
Store at room temperature ( 15 - 25 ° C / 59 - 77 ° F ) .
Non - Medicinal Ingredients CITRUS GRANDIS ( GRAPEFRUIT ) EXTRACT , ETHOXYDIGLYCOL , FRAGRANCE / PARFUM , L - ASCORBIC ACID USP , PROPYLENE GLYCOL , WATER / EAU .
Principal Display Panel Seequin2 __ PackageLabel _ PrincipalDisplayPanel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
