adenosine , niacinamide Water Sorbitol Methylpropanediol Dipropylene Glycol Propylene Glycol Glycerin Betaine Trehalose Sodium Hyaluronate Phenoxyethanol Hydroxyethylcellulose Polysorbate 80 Anemarrhena Asphodeloides Root Extract Punica Granatum Fruit Extract Honey Extract Hydrolyzed Elastin Broussonetia Extract Malva Sylvestris ( Mallow ) flower / leaf / stem extract Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) leaf extract Primula Veris flower extract Alchemilla Vulgaris flower / leaf / stem extract Veronica Officinalis flower / leaf / stem extract Melissa Officinalis leaf extract Achillea Millefolium flower / leaf / stem extract Allantoin Carbomer Lavandula Spica ( Lavender ) Flower Oil Disodium EDTA Acetyl Hexapeptide - 8 wrinkle care , whitening ■ if following abnormal symptoms persist , discontinue use Irritation around the eyes , ears , mucous membranes , including the mouth , under the skin irritation and rashes ■ Stop immediately and consult a doctor if you experience 1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms such as erythema , itching and dermatitis .
2 ) Skin Irritation 3 ) Following Instructions when using medication ( 1 ) For external use only ( Do not use internally ) ( 2 ) Avoid getting into the eyes ( if contact occurs , wash well with clean water ) ■ Be careful not to inhale or use excessively for a long time ( ingesting ethanol repeatedly causes irritation to mucous membranes and headaches or other symptoms may appear .
When used repeatedly in the same area , skin irritation may occur .
■ Do not use the product for a long time in the same area as swelling , inflammation or sickness may occur due to absorption through the skin .
It is not recommended to use this one areas that have been medically treated with a cast or bandage .
■ Do not use in combination with soap or antibacterial cleansing agents .
• Keep Out of Reach of Children .
① Take out breast pack from pouch and remove one sheet from both sheets .
( Same with opposite breast pack . )
② Put nipple in the center of the hole and place sheet in desired direction .
③ Press sheet according to shape of breast evenly .
④ Relax for 15 ~ 20 mins and make sure essence is absorbed into breast .
※ You can massage your breast after with left essence .
for external use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
