Active ingredient Capsicum extract 0 . 025 % as Capsaicin Purpose Topical analgesic Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthritis • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with the eyes , mucous membranes or rashes • do not bandage tightly • discontinue use at least 1 hour before a bath or shower • do not use immediately after a bath or shower Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash , itching or excessive skin irritation develops • conditions worsen • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : • clean and dry affected area • remove patch from film • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • remove patch from the skin after at most 8 hours ' application Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • Avoid storing product in direct sunlight • Protect product from excessive moisture Inactive ingredients butylated hydroxytoluene , hydrogenated rosin glycerol ester , maleated rosin glycerin ester , natural rubber latex , polybutene , polyisobutylene , silicon dioxide , titanium dioxide , zinc oxide Questions or comments ?
Toll free 1 - 800 - 826 - 8861 www . salonpas . us Principal Display Panel OTC topical analgesics in patch format * WORLD ' S BRAND NO . 1 Hisamitsu NDC # 46581 - 700 - 01 for temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with • Simple backache • Arthritis • Strains • Bruises • Sprains Salonpas - HOT CAPSICUM Patch Topical Analgesic 1 PATCH 5 . 12 " X 7 . 09 " ( 13 cm X 18 cm ) MADE IN JAPAN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NEW !
Value Pack 3 FOLDED PATCHES in a pack Same Large Size 5 . 12 " X 7 . 09 " ( 13 cm X 18 cm ) OTC topical analgesics in patch category * WORLD ' S BRAND NO . 1 Hisamitsu NDC # 46581 - 700 - 03 for temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with • Simple backache • Arthritis • Strains • Bruises • Sprains Salonpas - HOT CAPSICUM Patch Topical Analgesic 3 FOLDED PATCHES 5 . 12 " X 7 . 09 " ( 13 cm X 18 cm ) MADE IN JAPAN [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
