Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes rinse thoroughly with water .
• using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following the use of this product , may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one acne medication should be used unless directed by your doctor .
• limit use to the face and neck , chest and back Stop use and ask a doctor if skin or eye irritation develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to 2 or 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • store in a cool , dry place Inactive ingredients water , butylene glycol , octyldodecanol , steareth - 2 , cetyl alcohol , steareth - 21 , dimethicone , polyacrylamide , glycerin , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , sodium hydroxide , xanthan gum , magnesium aluminum silicate , laureth - 7 , fragrance , Lavandula stoechas extract , Helichrysum italicum extract , Cistus monspeliensis extract , titanium dioxide Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Tube Label NEW Clearasil ® ULTRA Rapid Action Treatment Lotion Face , Chest & Back Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication 4 HRS MAXIMUM STRENGTH Visibly reduces pimple size in as fast as 4 hours With Acceladerm ® Technology 4 FL .
OZ .
( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
