Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Each gram of ointment contains 500 units of Bacitracin in a low melting special base containing White Petrolatum and Mineral Oil .
ACTION : The antibiotic , Bacitracin , exerts a profound action against many gram - positive pathogens , including the common Streptococci and Staphylococci .
It is also destructive for certain gram - negative organisms .
It is ineffective against fungi .
INDICATIONS : For the treatment of superficial ocular infections involving the conjunctiva and / or cornea caused by Bacitracin susceptible organisms .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product should not be used in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to Bacitracin .
PRECAUTIONS : Bacitracin ophthalmic ointment should not be used in deep - seated ocular infections or in those that are likely to become systemic .
The prolonged use of antibiotic containing preparations may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms particularly fungi .
If new infections develop during treatment appropriate antibiotic or chemotherapy should be instituted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Bacitracin has such a low incidence of allergenicity that for all practical purposes side reactions are practically non - existent .
However , if such reaction should occur , therapy should be discontinued .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The ointment should be applied directly into the conjunctival sac 1 to 3 times daily .
In blepharitis all scales and crusts should be carefully removed and the ointment then spread uniformly over the lid margins .
Patients should be instructed to take appropriate measures to avoid gross contamination of the ointment when applying the ointment directly to the infected eye .
HOW SUPPLIED : 3 . 5 g ( 1 / 8 Oz ) sterile tamper proof tubes , NDC 42254 - 003 - 35 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Fera Pharmaceuticals , LLC Locust Valley , NY 11560 FPBC00N Rev . 08 / 09 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
