1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NAFTIN ® Gel is an allylamine antifungal indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
NAFTIN ® Gel is an allylamine antifungal indicated for the treatment of interdigital tinea pedis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of NAFTIN ® Gel once daily to the affected areas plus an approximate ½ inch margin of healthy surrounding skin for 2 weeks .
For topical use only .
NAFTIN ® Gel is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin layer of NAFTIN ® Gel once daily to the affected areas plus an approximate ½ inch margin of healthy surrounding skin for 2 weeks .
( 2 ) For topical use only .
NAFTIN ® Gel is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Gel , 2 % .
Each gram contains 20 mg of naftifine hydrochloride in a colorless to yellow gel .
Gel , 2 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS If redness or irritation develops with the use of NAFTIN ® Gel treatment should be discontinued .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Local Adverse Reactions If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of NAFTIN ® Gel , treatment should be discontinued .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are application site reactions ( 2 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 888 - 271 - 4621 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In two randomized , vehicle - controlled trials , 1143 subjects were treated with NAFTIN ® Gel versus 571 subjects treated with the vehicle .
The trial subjects were 12 to 92 years old , were primarily male ( 76 % ) , and were 59 % Caucasian , 38 % Black or African American , and 23 % Hispanic or Latino .
Subjects received doses once daily , topically , for 2 weeks to cover the affected skin areas plus a ½ - inch margin of surrounding healthy skin .
The most common adverse reactions were application site reactions which occurred at the rate of 2 % in NAFTIN Gel arm versus 1 % in vehicle arm .
Most adverse reactions were mild in severity .
In an open - label pediatric pharmacokinetics and safety trial 22 pediatric subjects 12 - 17 years of age with interdigital tinea pedis received NAFTIN ® Gel .
The incidence of adverse reactions in the pediatric population was similar to that observed in adult population .
Cumulative irritancy testing revealed the potential for NAFTIN ® Gel to cause irritation .
There was no evidence that NAFTIN ® Gel causes contact sensitization , phototoxicity , or photoallergenicity in healthy skin .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of naftifine hydrochloride : blisters , burning sensation , crusting , dryness , erythema / redness , inflammation , irritation , maceration , pain , pruritus [ mild ] / itching , rash and swelling .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on NAFTIN ® Gel use in pregnant women to evaluate a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , no adverse effects on embryofetal development were seen at oral doses administered during the period of organogenesis up to 37 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) in pregnant rats or subcutaneous doses administered during the period of organogenesis up to 4 times the MRHD in pregnant rats or 7 times the MRHD in pregnant rabbits ( see Data ) .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Systemic embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits .
For the comparison of animal to human doses , the MRHD is set at 4 g 2 % gel per day ( 1 . 33 mg / kg / day for a 60 kg individual ) .
Oral doses of 30 , 100 , and 300 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rats .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 37 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 10 and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rats .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at 30 mg / kg / day ( 4 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
Subcutaneous doses of 3 , 10 , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered during the period of organogenesis to pregnant female rabbits .
No treatment - related effects on embryofetal toxicity were noted at 30 mg / kg / day ( 7 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
A peri - and post - natal development study was conducted in rats .
Oral doses of 30 , 100 , and 300 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride were administered to female rats from gestational day 14 to lactation day 21 .
Reduced body weight gain of females during gestation and of the offspring during lactation was noted at 300 mg / kg / day ( 37 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
No developmental toxicity was noted at 100 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of naftifine hydrochloride in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production after topical application of NAFTIN Gel to women who are breastfeeding .
It is not known whether naftifine hydrochloride is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when naftifine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk NAFTIN Gel to an infant during lactation .
Therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for NAFTIN gel and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from NAFTIN gel or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of NAFTIN ® Gel have been established in the age group 12 to 18 years of age with interdigital tinea pedis .
Use of NAFTIN ® Gel in this age group is supported by evidence from adequate and well controlled trials in adults with additional safety and PK data from an open label trial , conducted in 22 adolescents ≥ 12 years of age who were exposed to NAFTIN ® Gel at a dose of approximately 4 g / day [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients < 12 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use During clinical trials , 99 subjects ( 9 % ) aged 65 years and over were exposed to NAFTIN ® Gel .
Safety and effectiveness were similar to those reported by younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION NAFTIN ® Gel is a clear to yellow gel for topical use only .
Each gram of NAFTIN ® Gel contains 20 mg of naftifine hydrochloride , a synthetic allylamine antifungal compound .
Chemically , naftifine HCl is ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - napthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
The molecular formula is C 21 H 21 N ∙ HCl with a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
The structural formula of naftifine hydrochloride is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NAFTIN ® Gel contains the following inactive ingredients : alcohol , benzyl alcohol , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , purified water , propylene glycol , polysorbate 20 and trolamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action NAFTIN ® Gel is a topical antifungal drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of NAFTIN ® Gel have not been established .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma samples from 32 subjects with tinea pedis treated with a mean dose of 3 . 9 grams NAFTIN ® Gel applied once daily to both feet for 14 days showed increased exposure over the treatment period , with a geometric mean ( CV % ) AUC 0 - 24 ( area under plasma concentration - versus - time curve from time 0 to 24 hours ) of 10 . 5 ( 118 ) ng ∙ hr / mL on Day 1 and an AUC 0 - 24 of 70 ( 59 ) ng ∙ hr / mL on Day 14 .
The accumulation ratio based on AUC was approximately 6 .
Maximum concentration ( C max ) also increased over the treatment period ; geometric mean ( CV % ) C max after a single dose was 0 . 9 ( 92 ) ng / mL on Day 1 ; C max on Day 14 was 3 . 7 ( 64 ) ng / mL .
Median T max was 20 . 0 hours ( range : 8 , 20 hours ) after a single application on Day 1 and 8 . 0 hours ( range : 0 , 24 hours ) on Day 14 .
Trough plasma concentrations increased during the trial period and reached steady state after 11 days .
In the same pharmacokinetic trial the fraction of dose excreted in urine during the treatment period was less than or equal to 0 . 01 % of the applied dose .
In a second trial , the pharmacokinetics of NAFTIN ® Gel was evaluated in 22 pediatric subjects 12 - 17 years of age with tinea pedis .
Subjects were treated with a mean dose of 4 . 1 grams NAFTIN ® Gel applied to the affected area once daily for 14 days .
The results showed that the systemic exposure increased over the treatment period .
Geometric mean ( CV % ) AUC0 - 24 was 15 . 9 ( 212 ) ng ∙ hr / mL on Day 1 and 60 . 0 ( 131 ) ng ∙ hr / mL on Day 14 .
Geometric mean ( CV % ) Cmax after a single dose was 1 . 40 ( 154 ) ng / mL on Day 1 and 3 . 81 ( 154 ) ng / mL on Day 14 .
The fraction of dose excreted in urine during the treatment period was less than or equal to 0 . 003 % of the applied dose .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Naftifine is an antifungal that belongs to the allylamine class .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
The inhibition of enzyme activity by this allylamine results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Mechanism of Resistance To date , a mechanism of resistance to naftifine has not been identified .
Naftifine has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following fungi , both in vitro and in clinical infections , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : • Trichophyton rubrum • Trichophyton mentagrophytes • Epidermophyton floccosum 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year dermal carcinogenicity study , naftifine hydrochloride cream was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats at topical doses of 1 % , 2 % and 3 % ( 10 , 20 , and 30 mg / kg / day naftifine hydrochloride ) .
No drug - related tumors were noted in this study up to the highest dose evaluated in this study of 30 mg / kg / day ( 36 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison ) .
Naftifine hydrochloride revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosome aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Oral administration of naftifine hydrochloride to rats , throughout mating , gestation , parturition , and lactation , demonstrated no effects on growth , fertility , or reproduction , at doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD based on mg / m 2 comparison ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES NAFTIN ® Gel has been evaluated for efficacy in two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled , multicenter trials that included 1175 subjects with symptomatic and dermatophyte culture - positive interdigital tinea pedis .
Subjects were randomized to receive NAFTIN ® Gel or vehicle .
Subjects applied naftifine hydrochloride gel 2 % or vehicle to the affected area of the foot once daily for 2 weeks .
Signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis ( presence or absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ) were assessed and potassium hydroxide ( KOH ) examination and dermatophyte culture were performed 6 weeks after the first treatment .
The mean age of the study population was 45 years ; 77 % were male ; and 60 % were Caucasian , 35 % were Black or African American , and 26 % were Hispanic or Latino .
At baseline , subjects were confirmed to have signs and symptoms of interdigital tinea pedis , positive KOH exam , and confirmed dermatophyte culture .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects with a complete cure at 6 weeks after the start of treatment ( 4 weeks after the last treatment ) .
Complete cure was defined as both a clinical cure ( absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ) and mycological cure ( negative KOH and dermatophyte culture ) .
The efficacy results at week 6 , four weeks following the end of treatment , are presented in Table 1 below .
Table 1 Interdigital Tinea Pedis : Number ( % ) of Subjects with Complete Cure , Effective Treatment , and Mycological Cure at Week 6 Following Treatment with NAFTIN ® Gel ( Full Analysis Set , Missing Values Treated as Treatment Failure ) Trial 1 Trial 2 Endpoint NAFTIN ® Gel , 2 % N = 382 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 179 n ( % ) NAFTIN ® Gel , 2 % N = 400 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 213 n ( % ) Complete Cure [ 1 ] 64 ( 17 % ) 3 ( 2 % ) 104 ( 26 % ) 7 ( 3 % ) Treatment Effectiveness [ 2 ] 207 ( 54 % ) 11 ( 6 % ) 203 ( 51 % ) 15 ( 7 % ) Mycological Cure [ 3 ] 250 ( 65 % ) 25 ( 14 % ) 235 ( 59 % ) 22 ( 10 % ) [ 1 ] Complete cure is a composite endpoint of both mycological cure and clinical cure .
Clinical cure is defined as the absence of erythema , pruritus , and scaling ( grade of 0 ) .
[ 2 ] Effective treatment is a negative KOH preparation and negative dermatophyte culture , erythema , scaling , and pruritus grades of 0 or 1 ( absent or nearly absent ) .
[ 3 ] Mycological cure is defined as negative KOH and dermatophyte culture .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied NAFTIN ® Gel is a colorless to yellow gel supplied in collapsible tubes in the following size : 45 g – NDC 54766 - 772 - 45 60 g – NDC 54766 - 772 - 60 Storage Store NAFTIN ® Gel at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Inform patients that NAFTIN ® Gel is for topical use only .
NAFTIN ® Gel is not intended for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
• Patients should be directed to contact their physician if irritation develops with the use of NAFTIN ® Gel .
Distributed by Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
645 Hembree Parkway , Suite I , Roswell , GA 30076 www . sebelapharma . com Toll Free 1 - 844 - 732 - 3521 © 2020 Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
All rights reserved .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 45 g Tube Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54766 - 772 - 45 NAFTIN ® ( Naftifine Hydrochloride ) Gel , 2 % Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use 45 g Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54766 - 772 - 60 NAFTIN ® ( Naftifine Hydrochloride ) Gel , 2 % Sebela Pharmaceuticals Inc .
For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use 60 g Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
