Active Ingredient ( s ) Hypochlorous acid 700 mg / L .
Purpose : Kill microorganism .
Purpose The product can kill pathogenic entero becteria , pyogenic coccus , pathogenic fungi and common bacteria in hospital infection , and has an inactivated effect on viruses .
Use 1 .
Surface disinfection of hard objects : Use the stock solution to wipe and disinfect , act for 20 minutes , and air - dry naturally without secondary cleaning .
2 .
Disinfection of food and drinking utensils : Soak it in the product for 30 minutes and then take it out , and air - dry naturally without secondary cleaning .
3 .
Air disinfection : Use the stock solution to atomize the indoor air at an amount of 10 mL / m3 for 30 minutes .
Scope of application : surface disinfection of hard objects , such as furniture , floors , sanitary ware , bathroom , etc . ; and drinking utensils ; Air disinfection .
Warnings External Use Only • Do not replace containers • Do not mix it with other disinfection products • Keep it sealed , and use it as soon as possible after unpacking • Spraying on the fabrics is not recommended • Not suitable for articles made of copper or carbon steel • Keep out of reach children Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • mixing this product with other disinfectants When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
This product is for external use .
It should not be taken orally .
This product has a certain corrosive effect on metal objects other than stainless steel , and should be used with caution .
When sterilizing articles containing more organic objects , they should be completely removed and then disinfected .
Use with caution for those with sensitive skin .
Do not mix this product with other disinfectants .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Directions 1 .
Surface disinfection of hard objects : Use the stock solution to wipe and disinfect , act for 20 minutes , and air - dry naturally without secondary cleaning .
2 .
Disinfection of food and drinking utensils : Soak it in the product for 30 minutes and then take it out , and air - dry naturally without secondary cleaning .
3 .
Air disinfection : Use the stock solution to atomize the indoor air at an amount of 10 mL / m3 for 30 minutes .
Other information Storage : place it in a normal temperature and light - shielded environment .
Inactive ingredients Sodium chloride , Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
