Carton Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions for suncreen use apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 monhts of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Cyclopentasiloxane , Glycerin , Talc , Mica , Lecithin , Ethylhexyl stearate , Trihydroxystearin , Disteardimonium hectorite , Cyclohexasiloxane , Dimethicone crosspolymer , Dimethicone , Magnesium sulfate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Phenoxyethanol , Butylene glycol , PEG / PPG - 18 / 18 Dimethicone , Tocopheryl acetate , Phenyl trimethicone , Propylene carbonate , Actinidia chinensis ( Kiwi ) fruit water , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 dimethicone , Hexyl laurate , Polyglyceryl - 4 isostearate , Methylparaben , Avena sativa ( Oat ) kernel extract , Ethylparaben , Potassium hydroxide , Retinyl palmitate , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Sodium hyaluronate , Alcohol , Lupinus albus seed extract , Carbomer , Sophora angustifolia root extract , Polysorbate 20 , BT , Ethylhexylglycerin , Ascorbic acid , Tocopherol , Palmitoyl oligopeptide , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 , CI 77492 ( Iron oxides ) , CI 77891 ( Titanium dioxide ) CI 77491 ( Iron oxides ) CI 77499 ( Iron oxides ) Description A luminating foundation which has been formulated with a polymer to help appear to visibly lift and give firmer feeling skin .
Our Pro - retinol complex containing Lipopeptides boosts and maintains elasticity .
It also contains a brightening complex to give skin a long term boost for even skin tone .
Powerful antioxidants , Vitamin C and E , and SPF 15 help protect against the ageing effects of free radicals .
Minimises the appearance of age spots , pores and pigmentation .
For Best Results : Blend smoothly and evenly with your fingers or a sponge , working downwards and outwards from the centre of your face .
Hypoallergenic : Because all skin can have sensitive moments all our foundation products are hypo - allergenic so they are kind to even the most sensitive skin .
Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USa Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in France www . boots . com Jar label No7 Lift & Luminate Foundation Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 30 ml e 1 US Fl . Oz .
Active ingredients : Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Warnings warning : Avoid contact with eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse well with water immediately .
Description Firmer , even skin with a youthful glow , visibly firms , lifts and brightens for a more luminous complexion Information The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA Made in france www . boots . com Foundation carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
