Active ingredients Camphor 5 . 5 % Menthol 5 . 5 % Purposes External analgesic External analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : simple backache arthritis strains bruises sprains Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds on irritated or damaged skin otherwise than as directed When using this product avoid contact with the eyes or mucous membranes do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days excessive irritation of the skin develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal discomfort , diarrhea , or skin rash occurs when using for pain of arthritis : pain persists for more than 10 days redness is present in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age Keep out of reach of children to avoid accidental poisoning .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 3 years of age and older : Spray on the affected area not more than3 to 4 times daily children under 3 years of age : Do not use , consult a doctor Refer to the above warnings ; use otherwise than as directed may be dangerous .
Other information keep tightly closed store at room temperature 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients bicolor artocarpus ( Artocarpus styracifolius Pierre ) root , cinnamon twigs , dimethyl sulfoxide , futokadsura Kadsura heterocita ( Roxb . )
Craib stem , fragrant angelica root , gleditsia ( Gleditsia sinensis Lam . )
fruit , hen ’ s eyes ( Ardisia crenata Sims . )
Root , Japanese knotweed ( Polygonum cuspidatum Siebold Zucc . )
root , methyl salicylate , moghania ( Moghania philippinensis Merr .
Rolfe ) root , securidaca ( Securidaca inappendiculata Hassk . )
herb , sheep ’ s ear ( Inula cappa Buch . - Ham .
ex D . Don ) DC .
herb , St . Thomas bean Entada phaseoloides ( L . ) Merr .
Stem , swallowwort Cynanchum paniculatum ( Bge . )
Kitag .
root and rhizome , Vietnamese sophora ( Sophora subprostrata Chun T . C . Chen ) root , wild pepper Piper wallichii ( Miq . )
Hand . - Mazz .
twigs and leaves , and zedoary rhizome .
Questions or comments ?
( 888 ) 221 - 3496 M - F 9 am to 5 pm you may also report serious side effects to this phone number SHU JIN LU EXTERNAL ANALGESIC NDC 59321 - 031 - 01 2 . 0 fl oz ( 60 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
