Disclaimer : Most OTC drugs are not reviewed and approved by FDA , however they may be marketed if they comply with applicable regulations and policies .
FDA has not evaluated whether this product complies .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product : • Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 26 % • Propylene glycol • Cocamidolpropyl PG - Dimonium Chloride Phospate • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
• Triethylene glycol • Polysorbate 20 • Fragrance • FD & C Blue No . 1 The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 26 % Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • in eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store below 43 C • Avoid extreme temperatures above 100 C ( 212 F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Cocamidolpropyl PG - Dimonium Chloride Phospate , Propylene glycol , Triethylene glycol , Polysorbate 20 , Fragrance , FD & C Blue No . 1 Package Label - Principal Display Panel 3790 mL NDC : 74988 - 112 - 37 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
