Active Ingredient [ s ] Ethanol 72 % Purpose Antiseptic Use [ s ] Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do not use - in children less than 2 months of age - on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
- Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other Information - Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) - Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive Ingredient [ s ] Purified Water , Acrylate / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Cross Polymer , Glycerin , Tromethamine Precautions for Use 1 .
If you have any of the following abnormalities using the product , you must stop using it and as it worsens , please consult a dermatologist , etc .
( While you are using , there are abnormalities such as red spots , swelling , itching , irritation , etc . and the applied area has the above - mentioned abnormalities due to direct sunlight ) 2 .
Do not use on areas with wounds or areas with eczema and dermatitis .
3 .
If it gets into your eyes , wash them immediately with water .
4 .
Precautions for storage and handling ▷ After use , be sure to close the cap .
▷ Keep out of reach of children .
▷ Do not store in a place with high or low temperature and direct sunlight .
5 .
This product is not a food / beverage , so do not use it for any purpose other than its original purpose .
If you ingest it , be sure to consult a doctor .
6 .
Be careful not to get on clothes .
7 .
Please note that there is a risk of slipping when in contact with the product contents .
Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
