Sterile DESCRIPTION Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor formulated for topical ophthalmic use .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is described chemically as : ( 4 S - trans ) - 4 - ( ethylamino ) - 5 , 6 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 4 H - thieno [ 2 , 3 - b ] thiopyran - 2 - sulfonamide 7 , 7 - dioxide monohydrochloride .
Dorzolamide hydrochloride is optically active .
The specific rotation is α 25 ° ( C = 1 , water ) = ~ - 17 ° .
405 Its empirical formula is C10H16N2O4S3 • HCl and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dorzolamide hydrochloride has a molecular weight of 360 . 9 and a melting point of about 264 ° C .
It is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , which is soluble in water and slightly soluble in methanol and ethanol .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered , slightly viscous , aqueous solution of dorzolamide hydrochloride .
The pH of the solution is approximately 5 . 6 , and the osmolarity is 260 - 330 mOsM .
Each mL of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % contains 20 mg dorzolamide ( 22 . 3 mg of dorzolamide hydrochloride ) .
Inactive ingredients are hydroxyethyl cellulose , mannitol , sodium citrate dihydrate , sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 0075 % is added as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Carbonic anhydrase ( CA ) is an enzyme found in many tissues of the body including the eye .
It catalyzes the reversible reaction involving the hydration of carbon dioxide and the dehydration of carbonic acid .
In humans , carbonic anhydrase exists as a number of isoenzymes , the most active being carbonic anhydrase II ( CA - II ) , found primarily in red blood cells ( RBCs ) , but also in other tissues .
Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase in the ciliary processes of the eye decreases aqueous humor secretion , presumably by slowing the formation of bicarbonate ions with subsequent reduction in sodium and fluid transport .
The result is a reduction in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution contains dorzolamide hydrochloride , an inhibitor of human carbonic anhydrase II .
Following topical ocular administration , Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution reduces elevated intraocular pressure .
Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of optic nerve damage and glaucomatous visual field loss .
Pharmacokinetics / Pharmacodynamics When topically applied , dorzolamide reaches the systemic circulation .
To assess the potential for systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibition following topical administration , drug and metabolite concentrations in RBCs and plasma and carbonic anhydrase inhibition in RBCs were measured .
Dorzolamide accumulates in RBCs during chronic dosing as a result of binding to CA - II .
The parent drug forms a single N - desethyl metabolite , which inhibits CA - II less potently than the parent drug but also inhibits CA - I .
The metabolite also accumulates in RBCs where it binds primarily to CA - I .
Plasma concentrations of dorzolamide and metabolite are generally below the assay limit of quantitation ( 15 nM ) .
Dorzolamide binds moderately to plasma proteins ( approximately 33 % ) .
Dorzolamide is primarily excreted unchanged in the urine ; the metabolite also is excreted in urine .
After dosing is stopped , dorzolamide washes out of RBCs nonlinearly , resulting in a rapid decline of drug concentration initially , followed by a slower elimination phase with a half - life of about four months .
To simulate the systemic exposure after long - term topical ocular administration , dorzolamide was given orally to eight healthy subjects for up to 20 weeks .
The oral dose of 2 mg b . i . d . closely approximates the amount of drug delivered by topical ocular administration of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % t . i . d . Steady state was reached within 8 weeks .
The inhibition of CA - II and total carbonic anhydrase activities was below the degree of inhibition anticipated to be necessary for a pharmacological effect on renal function and respiration in healthy individuals .
Clinical Studies The efficacy of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution was demonstrated in clinical studies in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension ( baseline IOP ≥ 23 mmHg ) .
The IOP - lowering effect of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution was approximately 3 to 5 mmHg throughout the day and this was consistent in clinical studies of up to one year duration .
The efficacy of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution when dosed less frequently than three times a day ( alone or in combination with other products ) has not been established .
In a one year clinical study , the effect of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % t . i . d . on the corneal endothelium was compared to that of betaxolol ophthalmic solution b . i . d . and timolol maleate ophthalmic solution 0 . 5 % b . i . d .
There were no statistically significant differences between groups in corneal endothelial cell counts or in corneal thickness measurements .
There was a mean loss of approximately 4 % in the endothelial cell counts for each group over the one year period .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is indicated in the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open - angle glaucoma .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
WARNINGS Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is a sulfonamide and , although administered topically , is absorbed systemically .
Therefore , the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration with Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution .
Fatalities have occurred , although rarely , due to severe reactions to sulfonamides including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , fulminant hepatic necrosis , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , and other blood dyscrasias .
Sensitization may recur when a sulfonamide is readministered irrespective of the route of administration .
If signs of serious reactions or hypersensitivity occur , discontinue the use of this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General The management of patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma requires therapeutic interventions in addition to ocular hypotensive agents .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution has not been studied in patients with acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution has not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl < 30 mL / min ) .
Because Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution and its metabolite are excreted predominantly by the kidney , Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is not recommended in such patients .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and should therefore be used with caution in such patients .
In clinical studies , local ocular adverse effects , primarily conjunctivitis and lid reactions , were reported with chronic administration of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution .
Many of these reactions had the clinical appearance and course of an allergic - type reaction that resolved upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
If such reactions are observed , Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution should be discontinued and the patient evaluated before considering restarting the drug .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) There is a potential for an additive effect on the known systemic effects of carbonic anhydrase inhibition in patients receiving an oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution .
The concomitant administration of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution and oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors is not recommended .
There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface .
Choroidal detachment has been reported with administration of aqueous suppressant therapy ( e . g . , dorzolamide ) after filtration procedures .
There is an increased potential for developing corneal edema in patients with low endothelial cell counts .
Precautions should be used when prescribing Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution to this group of patients .
Information for patients Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is a sulfonamide and although administered topically is absorbed systemically .
Therefore the same types of adverse reactions that are attributable to sulfonamides may occur with topical administration .
Patients should be advised that if serious or unusual reactions or signs of hypersensitivity occur , they should discontinue the use of the product ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patients should be advised that if they develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and lid reactions , they should discontinue use and seek their physician ' s advice .
Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye or surrounding structures .
Patients should also be instructed that ocular solutions , if handled improperly or if the tip of the dispensing container contacts the eye or surrounding structures , can become contaminated by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
Patients also should be advised that if they have ocular surgery or develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of the present multidose container .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten minutes apart .
Patients should be advised that Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution contains benzalkonium chloride which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of the solution .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes following Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution administration .
Drug interactions Although acid - base and electrolyte disturbances were not reported in the clinical trials with Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution , these disturbances have been reported with oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and have , in some instances , resulted in drug interactions ( e . g . , toxicity associated with high - dose salicylate therapy ) .
Therefore , the potential for such drug interactions should be considered in patients receiving Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a two - year study of dorzolamide hydrochloride administered orally to male and female Sprague - Dawley rats , urinary bladder papillomas were seen in male rats in the highest dosage group of 20 mg / kg / day ( 250 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
Papillomas were not seen in rats given oral doses equivalent to approximately 12 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose .
No treatment - related tumors were seen in a 21 - month study in female and male mice given oral doses up to 75 mg / kg / day ( ~ 900 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
The increased incidence of urinary bladder papillomas seen in the high - dose male rats is a class effect of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors in rats .
Rats are particularly prone to developing papillomas in response to foreign bodies , compounds causing crystalluria , and diverse sodium salts .
No changes in bladder urothelium were seen in dogs given oral dorzolamide hydrochloride for one year at 2 mg / kg / day ( 25 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) or monkeys dosed topically to the eye at 0 . 4 mg / kg / day ( ~ 5 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) for one year .
The following tests for mutagenic potential were negative : ( 1 ) in vivo ( mouse ) cytogenetic assay ; ( 2 ) in vitro chromosomal aberration assay ; ( 3 ) alkaline elution assay ; ( 4 ) V - 79 assay ; and ( 5 ) Ames test .
In reproduction studies of dorzolamide hydrochloride in rats , there were no adverse effects on the reproductive capacity of males or females at doses up to 188 or 94 times , respectively , the recommended human ophthalmic dose .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category C . Developmental toxicity studies with dorzolamide hydrochloride in rabbits at oral doses of ≥ 2 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 31 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) revealed malformations of the vertebral bodies .
These malformations occurred at doses that caused metabolic acidosis with decreased body weight gain in dams and decreased fetal weights .
No treatment - related malformations were seen at 1 . 0 mg / kg / day ( 13 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing mothers In a study of dorzolamide hydrochloride in lactating rats , decreases in body weight gain of 5 to 7 % in offspring at an oral dose of 7 . 5 mg / kg / day ( 94 times the recommended human ophthalmic dose ) were seen during lactation .
A slight delay in postnatal development ( incisor eruption , vaginal canalization and eye openings ) , secondary to lower fetal body weight , was noted .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric use Safety and IOP - lowering effects of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution have been demonstrated in pediatric patients in a 3 - month , multicenter , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled trial .
Geriatric use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Controlled clinical trials : The most frequent adverse events associated with Dorzolamide Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution were ocular burning , stinging , or discomfort immediately following ocular administration ( approximately one - third of patients ) .
Approximately one - quarter of patients noted a bitter taste following administration .
Superficial punctate keratitis occurred in 10 - 15 % of patients and signs and symptoms of ocular allergic reaction in approximately 10 % .
Events occurring in approximately 1 - 5 % of patients were conjunctivitis and lid reactions ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) , blurred vision , eye redness , tearing , dryness , and photophobia .
Other ocular events and systemic events were reported infrequently , including headache , nausea , asthenia / fatigue ; and , rarely , skin rashes , urolithiasis , and iridocyclitis .
In a 3 - month , double - masked , active - treatment - controlled , multicenter study in pediatric patients , the adverse experience profile of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution was comparable to that seen in adult patients .
Clinical practice : The following adverse events have occurred either at low incidence ( < 1 % ) during clinical trials or have been reported during the use of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution in clinical practice where these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size and frequency of occurrence cannot be determined precisely .
They have been chosen for inclusion based on factors such as seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution , or a combination of these factors : signs and symptoms of systemic allergic reactions including angioedema , bronchospasm , pruritus , and urticaria ; dizziness , paresthesia ; ocular pain , transient myopia , choroidal detachment following filtration surgery , eyelid crusting ; dyspnea ; contact dermatitis , epistaxis , dry mouth and throat irritation .
OVERDOSAGE Electrolyte imbalance , development of an acidotic state , and possible central nervous system effects may occur .
Serum electrolyte levels ( particularly potassium ) and blood pH levels should be monitored .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is one drop of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution in the affected eye ( s ) three times daily .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least ten minutes apart .
HOW SUPPLIED Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is a slightly opalescent , nearly colorless , slightly viscous solution .
Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution is supplied in a white low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle with a controlled drop tip and orange polypropylene cap in the following sizes : 10 mL in a 10 mL bottle NDC 54868 - 6330 - 0 STORAGE Store Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light .
Rx only Manufacturer Information Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Revised December 2008 9080602 ( Folded ) Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Please follow these instructions carefully when using Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % .
Use Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % as prescribed by your doctor .
1 .
If you use other topically applied ophthalmic medications , they should be administered at least 10 minutes before or after Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % .
2 .
Wash hands before each use .
3 .
To open the bottle , remove the shrink neck band and unscrew the cap by turning counter clockwise .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Tilt your head back and pull your lower eyelid down slightly to form a pocket between your eyelid and your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Instill drops as directed by your doctor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OPHTHALMIC MEDICATIONS , IF HANDLED IMPROPERLY , CAN BECOME CONTAMINATED BY COMMON BACTERIA KNOWN TO CAUSE EYE INFECTIONS .
SERIOUS DAMAGE TO THE EYE AND SUBSEQUENT LOSS OF VISION MAY RESULT FROM USING CONTAMINATED OPHTHALMIC MEDICATIONS .
IF YOU THINK YOUR MEDICATION MAY BE CONTAMINATED , OR IF YOU DEVELOP AN EYE INFECTION , CONTACT YOUR DOCTOR IMMEDIATELY CONCERNING CONTINUED USE OF THIS BOTTLE .
6 .
Repeat steps 4 & 5 with the other eye if instructed to do so by your doctor .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
If you have any questions about the use of Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution 2 % , please consult your doctor .
Revised December 2008 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , Florida 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9080602 ( Folded ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 54868 - 6330 - 0 Dorzolamide HCl Ophthalmic Solution , 2 % * Dorzolamide Equivalent ( Dorzolamide hydrochloride 22 . 3 mg / mL ) Sterile Rx only FOR TOPICAL APPLICATION IN THE EYE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
