This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : disinfection and sterilization Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer .
disinfection and sterilization Use helps decrease bacteria on skin . recommended for repeated use .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • do not use on children under 6 years old .
• do not use on open skin wounds .
• keep out of eyes . in case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water • avoid contact with broken skin • do not inhale or ingest irritation and redness develop condition persists for more tahn 72 hours if swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away Directions wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
this product is not a substitute for drugs or medical devices .
keep container tightly closed and store in a well cool ventilated .
Other information • do not store above 105 .
F • may discolor some fabrics • harmful to wood finisher and plastics Inactive ingredients water , carbomer940 , trolamine Package Label - Principal Display Panel 300 mL NDC : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
