This is a rub hand sanitizer ( leave in product ) which is intended to be used when soap and water are not available , and are left on and not rinsed off with water .
It complies with the final rule on consumer antiseptic rubs , using alcohol in a percentage between 65 and 90 % .
The product is made with • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured .
• Glycerol ( 10 % v / v ) .
• Isopropyl alcohol ( 1 . 33 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
• Carbomer 940 ( 0 . 25 % m / v ) • Polysorbate 20 ( 3 . 33 % m / v ) The firm add only fragrance ( 0 . 002 % ) as an inactive ingredient , and realizes it may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , isopropyl alcohol , carbopol 940 , polysorbate 20 , fragrance , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel 1000 mL NDC : 76540 - 100 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
