This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : disinfection and antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer purpose : disinfection and antiseptic Use Suitable for sterilization and disinfection of the surface of the object and the complete skin of the human body .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • do not use on children 6 years old .
• do not use on open skin wounds Keep out of eyes . in case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Do not inhale or ingest .
stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop , condition persists for more tahn 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions this product is for extermal use . apply this product to skin , hands and general objects this product is not a substitute for drugs or medical devices use with caution ; infants , pregnant women and breastfeeding women keep out of reach of children , do not use on children 6 years old . do not use on open skin wounds Other information • do not store above 105 .
F • may discolor some fabrics • harmful to wood finisher and plastics Inactive ingredients water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 50 mL NDC : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
