Rx only Under the Drug Addiction Treatment Act of 2000 ( DATA ) codified at 21 U . S . C . 823 ( g ) , prescription use of this product in the treatment of opioid dependence is limited to physicians who meet certain qualifying requirements , and have notified the Secretary of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) of their intent to prescribe this product for the treatment of opioid dependence .
DESCRIPTION SUBOXONE sublingual tablets contain buprenorphine HCl and naloxone HCl dihydrate at a ratio of 4 : 1 buprenorphine : naloxone ( ratio of free bases ) .
SUBUTEX sublingual tablets contain buprenorphine HCl .
Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu - opioid receptor and an antagonist at the kappa - opioid receptor .
Naloxone is an antagonist at the mu - opioid receptor .
Buprenorphine is a Schedule III narcotic under the Controlled Substances Act .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride is a white powder , weakly acidic with limited solubility in water ( 17 mg / mL ) .
Chemically , buprenorphine is 17 - ( cyclopropylmethyl ) - α - ( 1 , 1 - dimethylethyl ) - 4 , 5 - epoxy - 18 , 19 - dihydro - 3 - hydroxy - 6 - methoxy - α - methyl - 6 , 14 - ethenomorphinan - 7 - methanol , hydrochloride [ 5α , 7α ( S ) ] - .
Buprenorphine hydrochloride has the molecular formula C29 H41N04 HCl and the molecular weight is 504 . 10 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STRUCTURAL FORMULA OF BUPRENORPHINE Naloxone hydrochloride is a white to slightly off - white powder and is soluble in water , in dilute acids and in strong alkali .
Chemically , naloxone is 17 - Allyl - 4 , 5 α - epoxy - 3 , 14 - dihydroxymorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride .
Naloxone Hydrochloride has the molecular formula C19 H21 N04 HCl . 2H2 0 and the molecular weight is 399 . 87 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] STRUCTURAL FORMULA OF NALOXONE SUBOXONE is an uncoated hexagonal orange tablet intended for sublingual administration .
It is available in two dosage strengths , 2 mg buprenorphine with 0 . 5 mg naloxone , and 8 mg buprenorphine with 2 mg naloxone free bases .
Each tablet also contains lactose , mannitol , cornstarch , povidone K30 , citric acid , sodium citrate , FD & C Yellow No . 6 color , magnesium stearate , and the tablets also contain Acesulfame K sweetener and a lemon / lime flavor .
SUBUTEX is an uncoated oval white tablet intended for sublingual administration .
It is available in two dosage strengths , 2 mg buprenorphine and 8 mg buprenorphine free base .
Each tablet also contains lactose , mannitol , cornstarch , povidone K30 , citric acid , sodium citrate and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Enter section text here Subjective Effects : Comparisons of buprenorphine with full agonists such as methadone and hydromorphone suggest that sublingual buprenorphine produces typical opioid agonist effects which are limited by a ceiling effect .
In non - dependent subjects , acute sublingual doses of SUBOXONE tablets produced opioid agonist effects , which reached a maximum between doses of 8 mg and 16 mg of SUBUTEX .
The effects of 16 mg SUBOXONE were similar to those produced by 16 mg SUBUTEX ( buprenorphine alone ) .
Opioid agonist ceiling effects were also observed in a double - blind , parallel group , dose ranging comparison of single doses of buprenorphine sublingual solution ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 mg ) , placebo , and a full agonist control at various doses .
The treatments were given in ascending dose order at intervals of at least one week to 16 opioid - experienced , non - dependent subjects .
Both drugs produced typical opioid agonist effects .
For all the measures for which the drugs produced an effect , buprenorphine produced a dose - related response but , in each case , there was a dose that produced no further effect .
In contrast , the highest dose of the full agonist control always produced the greatest effects .
Agonist objective rating scores remained elevated for the higher doses of buprenorphine ( 8 - 32 mg ) longer than for the lower doses and did not return to baseline until 48 hours after drug administrations .
The onset of effects appeared more rapidly with buprenorphine than with the full agonist control , with most doses nearing peak effect after 100 minutes for buprenorphine compared to 150 minutes for the full agonist control .
Physiologic Effects : Buprenorphine in intravenous ( 2 mg , 4 mg , 8 mg , 12 mg and 16 mg ) and sublingual ( 12 mg ) doses has been administered to non - dependent subjects to examine cardiovascular , respiratory and subjective effects at doses comparable to those used for treatment of opioid dependence .
Compared with placebo , there were no statistically significant differences among any of the treatment conditions for blood pressure , heart rate , respiratory rate , O2 saturation or skin temperature across time .
Systolic BP was higher in the 8 mg group than placebo ( 3 hour AUC values ) .
Minimum and maximum effects were similar across all treatments .
Subjects remained responsive to low voice and responded to computer prompts .
Some subjects showed irritability , but no other changes were observed .
The respiratory effects of sublingual buprenorphine were compared with the effects of methadone in a double - blind , parallel group , dose ranging comparison of single doses of buprenorphine sublingual solution ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 mg ) and oral methadone ( 15 , 30 , 45 , or 60 mg ) in non - dependent , opioid - experienced volunteers .
In this study , hypoventilation not requiring medical intervention was reported more frequently after buprenorphine doses of 4 mg and higher than after methadone .
Both drugs decreased O2 saturation to the same degree .
Effect of Naloxone : Physiologic and subjective effects following acute sublingual administration of SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX tablets were similar at equivalent dose levels of buprenorphine .
Naloxone , in the SUBOXONE formulation , had no clinically significant effect when administered by the sublingual route , although blood levels of the drug were measurable .
SUBOXONE , when administered sublingually even to an opioid - dependent population , was recognized as an opioid agonist , whereas when administered intramuscularly , combinations of buprenorphine with naloxone produced opioid antagonist actions similar to naloxone .
In methadone - maintained patients and heroin - dependent subjects , intravenous administration of buprenorphine / naloxone combinations precipitated opioid withdrawal and was perceived as unpleasant and dysphoric .
In morphine - stabilized subjects , intravenously administered combinations of buprenorphine with naloxone produced opioid antagonist and withdrawal effects that were ratio - dependent ; the most intense withdrawal effects were produced by 2 : 1 and 4 : 1 ratios , less intense by an 8 : 1 ratio .
SUBOXONE tablets contain buprenorphine with naloxone at a ratio of 4 : 1 .
Pharmacokinetics : Absorption : Plasma levels of buprenorphine increased with the sublingual dose of SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE , and plasma levels of naloxone increased with the sublingual dose of SUBOXONE ( Table 1 ) .
There was a wide inter - patient variability in the sublingual absorption of buprenorphine and naloxone , but within subjects the variability was low .
Both Cmax and AUC of buprenorphine increased in a linear fashion with the increase in dose ( in the range of 4 to 16 mg ) , although the increase was not directly dose - proportional .
Naloxone did not affect the pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and both SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE deliver similar plasma concentrations of buprenorphine .
The levels of naloxone were too low to assess dose - proportionality .
At the three naloxone doses of 1 mg , 2 mg , and 4 mg , levels above the limit of quantitation ( 0 . 05 ng / mL ) were not detected beyond 2 hours in seven of eight subjects .
In one individual , at the 4 mg dose , the last measurable concentration was at 8 hours .
Within each subject ( for most of the subjects ) , across the doses there was a trend toward an increase in naloxone concentrations with increase in dose .
Mean peak naloxone levels ranged from 0 . 11 to 0 . 28 ng / mL in the dsose range of 1 - 4 mg .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetic parameters of buprenorphine after the administration of 4 mg , 8 mg , and 16 mg Suboxone ® doses and 16 mg Subutex ® dose ( mean ( % CV ) ) .
Pharmacokinetic Parameter Suboxone ® 4 mg Suboxone ® 8 mg Suboxone ® 16 mg Subutex ® 16 mg Cmax , ng / mL 1 . 84 ( 39 ) 3 . 0 ( 51 ) 5 . 95 ( 38 ) 5 . 47 ( 23 ) AUC0 - 48 , hour .
ng / mL 12 . 52 ( 35 ) 20 . 22 ( 43 ) 34 . 89 ( 33 ) 32 . 63 ( 25 ) Distribution : Buprenorphine is approximately 96 % protein bound , primarily to alpha and beta globulin .
Naloxone is approximately 45 % protein bound , primarily to albumin .
Metabolism : Buprenorphine undergoes both N - dealkylation to norbuprenorphine and glucuronidation .
The N - dealkylation pathway is mediated by cytochrome P - 450 3A4 isozyme .
Norbuprenorphine , an active metabolite , can further undergo glucuronidation .
Naloxone undergoes direct glucuronidation to naloxone 3 - glucuronide as well as N - dealkylation , and reduction of the 6 - oxo group .
Elimination : A mass balance study of buprenorphine showed complete recovery of radiolabel in urine ( 30 % ) and feces ( 69 % ) collected up to 11 days after dosing .
Almost all of the dose was accounted for in terms of buprenorphine , norbuprenorphine , and two unidentified buprenorphine metabolites .
In urine , most of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine was conjugated ( buprenorphine , 1 % free and 9 . 4 % conjugated ; norbuprenorphine , 2 . 7 % free and 11 % conjugated ) .
In feces , almost all of the buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine were free ( buprenorphine , 33 % free and 5 % conjugated ; norbuprenorphine , 21 % free and 2 % conjugated ) .
Buprenorphine has a mean elimination half - life from plasma of 37 h . Naloxone has a mean elimination half - life from plasma of 1 . 1 h . Special Populations : Hepatic Disease : The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and naloxone is unknown .
Since both drugs are extensively metabolized , the plasma levels will be expected to be higher in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment .
However , it is not known whether both drugs are affected to the same degree .
Therefore , in patients with hepatic impairment dosage should be adjusted and patients should be observed for symptoms of precipitated opioid withdrawal .
Renal Disease : No differences in buprenorphine pharmacokinetics were observed between 9 dialysis - dependent and 6 normal patients following intravenous administration of 0 . 3 mg buprenorphine .
The effects of renal failure on naloxone pharmacokinetics are unknown .
Drug - drug interactions : CYP3A4 Inhibitors and Inducers : A pharmacokinetic interaction study of ketoconazole ( 400 mg / day ) , a potent inhibitor of CYP 3A4 , in 12 patients stabilized on SUBOXONE [ 8 mg ( n = 1 ) or 12 mg ( n = 5 ) or 16 mg ( n = 6 ) ] resulted in increases in buprenorphine mean Cmax values ( from 4 . 3 to 9 . 8 , 6 . 3 to 14 . 4 and 9 . 0 to 17 . 1 ) and mean AUC values ( from 30 . 9 to 46 . 9 , 41 . 9 to 83 . 2 and 52 . 3 to 120 ) respectively .
Subjects receiving SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE should be closely monitored and may require dose - reduction if inhibitors of CYP 3A4 such as azole antifungal agents ( e . g . ketoconazole ) , macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin ) and HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . ritonavir , indinavir and saquinavir ) are co - administered .
The interaction of buprenorphine with CYP 3A4 inducers has not been investigated ; therefore it is recommended that patients receiving SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE should be closely monitored if inducers of CYP 3A4 ( e . g . phenobarbital , carbamazepine , phenytoin , rifampicin ) are co - administered ( SEE WARNINGS ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical data on the safety and efficacy of SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX are derived from studies of buprenorphine sublingual tablet formulations , with and without naloxone , and from studies of sublingual administration of a more bioavailable ethanolic solution of buprenorphine .
SUBOXONE tablets have been studied in 575 patients , SUBUTEX tablets in 1834 patients and buprenorphine sublingual solutions in 2470 patients .
A total of 1270 females have received buprenorphine in clinical trials .
Dosing recommendations are based on data from one trial of both tablet formulations and two trials of the ethanolic solution .
All trials used buprenorphine in conjunction with psychosocial counseling as part of a comprehensive addiction treatment program .
There have been no clinical studies conducted to assess the efficacy of buprenorphine as the only component of treatment .
In a double blind placebo - and active controlled study , 326 heroin - addicted subjects were randomly assigned to either SUBOXONE 16 mg per day , 16 mg SUBUTEX per day or placebo tablets .
For subjects randomized to either active treatment , dosing began with one 8 mg tablet of SUBUTEX on Day 1 , followed by 16 mg ( two 8 mg tablets ) of SUBUTEX on Day 2 .
On Day 3 , those randomized to receive SUBOXONE were switched to the combination tablet .
Subjects randomized to placebo received one placebo tablet on Day 1 and two placebo tablets per day thereafter for four weeks .
Subjects were seen daily in the clinic ( Monday through Friday ) for dosing and efficacy assessments .
Take - home doses were provided for weekends .
Subjects were instructed to hold the medication under the tongue for approximately 5 to 10 minutes until completely dissolved .
Subjects received one hour of individual counseling per week and a single session of HIV education .
The primary study comparison was to assess the efficacy of SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE individually against placebo .
The percentage of thrice - weekly urine samples that were negative for non - study opioids was statistically higher for both SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE , than for placebo .
In a double - blind , double - dummy , parallel - group study comparing buprenorphine ethanolic solution to a full agonist active control , 162 subjects were randomized to receive the ethanolic sublingual solution of buprenorphine at 8 mg / day ( a dose which is roughly comparable to a dose of 12 mg / day of SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE ) , or two relatively low doses of active control , one of which was low enough to serve as an alternative to placebo , during a 3 - 10 day induction phase , a 16 - week maintenance phase and a 7 - week detoxification phase .
Buprenorphine was titrated to maintenance dose by Day 3 ; active control doses were titrated more gradually .
Maintenance dosing continued through Week 17 , and then medications were tapered by approximately 20 - 30 % per week over Weeks 18 - 24 , with placebo dosing for the last two weeks .
Subjects received individual and / or group counseling weekly .
Based on retention in treatment and the percentage of thrice - weekly urine samples negative for non - study opioids , buprenorphine was more effective than the low dose of the control , in keeping heroin addicts in treatment and in reducing their use of opioids while in treatment .
The effectiveness of buprenorphine , 8 mg per day was similar to that of the moderate active control dose , but equivalence was not demonstrated .
In a dose - controlled , double - blind , parallel - group , 16 - week study , 731 subjects were randomized to receive one of four doses of buprenorphine ethanolic solution .
Buprenorphine was titrated to maintenance doses over 1 - 4 days ( Table 2 ) and continued for 16 weeks .
Subjects received at least one session of AIDS education and additional counseling ranging from one hour per month to one hour per week , depending on site .
Table 2 .
Doses of Sublingual Buprenorphine Solution used for Induction in a Double - Blind Dose Ranging StudyTarget dose of Buprenorphine * Induction Dose Maintenance dose Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 1 mg 1 mg 1 mg 1 mg 1 mg 4 mg 2 mg 4 mg 4 mg 4 mg 8 mg 2 mg 4 mg 8 mg 8 mg 16 mg 2 mg 4 mg 8 mg 16 mg * Sublingual solution .
Doses in this tabe cannot necessarily be delivered in tablet form , but for comparison purposes : 2 mg solution would be roughly equivalent to 3 mg tablet 4 mg solution would be roughly equivalent to 6 mg tablet 8 mg solution would be roughly equivalent to 12 mg tablet 16 mg solution would be roughly equivalent to 24 mg tablet Based on retention in treatment and the percentage of thrice - weekly urine samples negative for non - study opioids , the three highest tested doses were superior to the 1 mg dose .
Therefore , this study showed that a range of buprenorphine doses may be effective .
The 1 mg dose of buprenorphine sublingual solution can be considered to be somewhat lower than a 2 mg tablet dose .
The other doses used in the study encompass a range of tablet doses from approximately 6 mg to approximately 24 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX are indicated for the treatment of opioid dependence .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX should not be administered to patients who have been shown to be hypersensitive to buprenorphine , and SUBOXONE should not be administered to patients who have been shown to be hypersensitive to naloxone .
WARNINGS Enter section text here Respiratory Depression : Significant respiratory depression has been associated with buprenorphine , particularly by the intravenous route .
A number of deaths have occurred when addicts have intravenously misused buprenorphine , usually with benzodiazepines concomitantly .
Deaths have also been reported in association with concomitant administration of buprenorphine with other depressants such as alcohol or other opioids .
Patients should be warned of the potential danger of the self - administration of benzodiazepines or other depressants while under treatment with SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE .
IN THE CASE OF OVERDOSE , THE PRIMARY MANAGEMENT SHOULD BE THE RE - ESTABLISHMENT OF ADEQUATE VENTILATION WITH MECHANICAL ASSISTANCE OF RESPIRATION , IF REQUIRED .
NALOXONE MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN REVERSING ANY RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION PRODUCED BY BUPRENORPHINE .
SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX should be used with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function ( e . g . , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , cor pulmonale , decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or pre - existing respiratory depression ) .
CNS Depression : Patients receiving buprenorphine in the presence of other narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , benzodiazepines , phenothiazines , other tranquilizers , sedative / hypnotics or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) may exhibit increased CNS depression .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , reduction of the dose of one or both agents should be considered .
Dependence : Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu - opiate receptor and chronic administration produces dependence of the opioid type , characterized by withdrawal upon abrupt discontinuation or rapid taper .
The withdrawal syndrome is milder than seen with full agonists , and may be delayed in onset .
Hepatitis , hepatic events : Cases of cytolytic hepatitis and hepatitis with jaundice have been observed in the addict population receiving buprenorphine both in clinical trials and in post - marketing adverse event reports .
The spectrum of abnormalities ranges from transient asymptomatic elevations in hepatic transaminases to case reports of hepatic failure , hepatic necrosis , hepatorenal syndrome , and hepatic encephalopathy .
In many cases , the presence of preexisting liver enzyme abnormalities , infection with hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus , concomitant usage of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs , and ongoing injecting drug use may have played a causative or contributory role .
In other cases , insufficient data were available to determine the etiology of the abnormality .
The possibility exists that buprenorphine had a causative or contributory role in the development of the hepatic abnormality in some cases .
Measurements of liver function tests prior to initiation of treatment is recommended to establish a baseline .
Periodic monitoring of liver function tests during treatment is also recommended .
A biological and etiological evaluation is recommended when a hepatic event is suspected .
Depending on the case , the drug should be carefully discontinued to prevent withdrawal symptoms and a return to illicit drug use , and strict monitoring of the patient should be initiated .
Allergic Reactions : Cases of acute and chronic hypersensitivity to buprenorphine have been reported both in clinical trials and in the post - marketing experience .
The most common signs and symptoms include rashes , hives , and pruritus .
Cases of bronchospasm , angioneurotic edema , and anaphylactic shock have been reported .
A history of hypersensitivity to buprenorphine is a contraindication to Subutex or Suboxone use .
A history of hypersensitivity to naloxone is a contraindication to Suboxone use .
Use in Ambulatory Patients : SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX may impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially dangerous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery , especially during drug induction and dose adjustment .
Patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery , including automobiles , until they are reasonably certain that buprenorphine therapy does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities .
Like other opioids , SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure : SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX , like other potent opioids , may elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure and should be used with caution in patients with head injury , intracranial lesions and other circumstances where cerebrospinal pressure may be increased .
SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX can produce miosis and changes in the level of consciousness that may interfere with patient evaluation .
Opioid withdrawal effects : Because it contains naloxone , SUBOXONE is highly likely to produce marked and intense withdrawal symptoms if misused parenterally by individuals dependent on opioid agonists such as heroin , morphine , or methadone .
Sublingually , SUBOXONE may cause opioid withdrawal symptoms in such persons if administered before the agonist effects of the opioid have subsided .
PRECAUTIONS Enter section text here General : SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX should be administered with caution in elderly or debilitated patients and those with severe impairment of hepatic , pulmonary , or renal function ; myxedema or hypothyroidism , adrenal cortical insufficiency ( e . g . , Addison ' s disease ) ; CNS depression or coma ; toxic psychoses ; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture ; acute alcoholism ; delirium tremens ; or kyphoscoliosis .
The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and naloxone is unknown .
Since both drugs are extensively metabolized , the plasma levels will be expected to be higher in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment .
However , it is not known whether both drugs are affected to the same degree .
Therefore , dosage should be adjusted and patients should be watched for symptoms of precipitated opioid withdrawal .
Buprenorphine has been shown to increase intracholedochal pressure , as do other opioids , and thus should be administered with caution to patients with dysfunction of the biliary tract .
As with other mu - opioid receptor agonists , the administration of SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Drug Interactions : Buprenorphine is metabolized to norbuprenorphine by cytochrome CYP 3A4 .
Because CYP 3A4 inhibitors may increase plasma concentrations of buprenorphine , patients already on CYP 3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals ( e . g . ketoconazole ) , macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . erythromycin ) , and HIV protease inhibitors ( e . g . ritonavir , indinavir and saquinavir ) should have their dose of SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE adjusted .
Based on anecdotal reports , there may be an interaction between buprenorphine and benzodiazepines .
There have been a number of reports in the post - marketing experience of coma and death associated with the concomitant intravenous misuse of buprenorphine and benzodiazepines by addicts .
In many of these cases , buprenorphine was misused by self - injection of crushed SUBUTEX tablets .
SUBUTEX and SUBOXONE should be prescribed with caution to patients on benzodiazepines or other drugs that act on the central nervous system , regardless of whether these drugs are taken on the advice of a physician or are taken as drugs of abuse .
Patients should be warned of the potential danger of the intravenous self - administration of benzodiazepines while under treatment with SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX .
Information for Patients : Patients should inform their family members that , in the event of emergency , the treating physician or emergency room staff should be informed that the patient is physically dependent on narcotics and that the patient is being treated with SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX .
Patients should be cautioned that a serious overdose and death may occur if benzodiazepines , sedatives , tranquilizers , antidepressants , or alcohol are taken at the same time as SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX .
SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX may impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially dangerous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery , especially during drug induction and dose adjustment .
Patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery , including automobiles , until they are reasonably certain that buprenorphine therapy does not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities .
Like other opioids , SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Patients should consult their physician if other prescription medications are currently being used or are prescribed for future use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenicity : Carcinogenicity data on SUBOXONE are not available .
Carcinogenicity studies of buprenorphine were conducted in Sprague - Dawley rats and CD - 1 mice .
Buprenorphine was administered in the diet to rats at doses of 0 . 6 , 5 . 5 , and 56 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 0 . 4 , 3 and 35 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) for 27 months .
Statistically significant dose - related increases in testicular interstitial ( Leydig ' s ) cell tumors occurred , according to the trend test adjusted for survival .
Pair - wise comparison of the high dose against control failed to show statistical significance .
In an 86 - week study in CD - 1 mice , buprenorphine was not carcinogenic at dietary doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 30 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Mutagenicity : SUBOXONE : The 4 : 1 combination of buprenorphine and naloxone was not mutagenic in a bacterial mutation assay ( Ames test ) using four strains of S . typhimurium and two strains of E coli .
The combination was not clastogenic in an in vitro cytogenetic assay in human lymphocytes , or in an intravenous micronucleus test in the rat .
SUBUTEX : Buprenorphine was studied in a series of tests utilizing gene , chromosome , and DNA interactions in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems .
Results were negative in yeast ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) for recombinant , gene convertant , or forward mutations ; negative in Bacillus subtilis " rec " assay , negative for clastogenicity in CHO cells , Chinese hamster bone marrow and spermatogonia cells , and negative in the mouse lymphoma L5178Y assay .
Results were equivocal in the Ames test : negative in studies in two laboratories , but positive for frame shift mutation at a high dose ( 5 mg / plate ) in a third study .
Results were positive in the Green - Tweets ( E . coli ) survival test , positive in a DNA synthesis inhibition ( DSI ) test with testicular tissue from mice , for both in vivo and in vitro incorporation of [ 3 H ] thymidine , and positive in unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) test using testicular cells from mice .
Impairment of Fertility : SUBOXONE : Dietary administration of SUBOXONE in the rat at dose levels of 500 ppm or greater ( equivalent to approximately 4 / mg / kg / day or greater ; estimated exposure was approximately 28 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) produced a reduction in fertility demonstrated by reduced female conception rates .
A dietary dose of 100 ppm ( equivalent to approximately 10 mg / kg / day ; estimated exposure was approximately 6 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) had no adverse effect on fertility .
SUBUTEX : Reproduction studies of buprenorphine in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at daily oral doses up to 80 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 50 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) or up to 5 mg / kg / day im or sc ( estimated exposure was approximately 3 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category C : Teratogenic effects : SUBOXONE : Effects on embryo - fetal development were studied in Sprague - Dawley rats and Russian white rabbits following oral ( 1 : 1 ) and intramuscular ( 3 : 2 ) administration of mixtures of buprenorphine and naloxone .
Following oral administration to rats and rabbits , no teratogenic effects were observed at doses up to 250 mg / kg / day and 40 mg / kg / day , respectively ( estimated exposure was approximately 150 times and 50 times , respectively , the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No definitive drug - related teratogenic effects were observed in rats and rabbits at intramuscular doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 20 times and 35 times , respectively , the recommended human daily dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Acephalus was observed in one rabbit fetus from the low - dose group and omphacele was observed in two rabbit fetuses from the same litter in the mid - dose group ; no findings were observed in fetuses from the high - dose group .
Following oral administration to the rat , dose - related post - implantation losses , evidenced by increases in the numbers of early resorptions with consequent reductions in the numbers of fetuses , were observed at doses of 10 mg / kg / day or greater ( estimated exposure was approximately 6 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In the rabbit , increased post - implantation losses occurred at an oral dose of 40 mg / kg / day .
Following intramuscular administration in the rat and the rabbit , post - implantation losses , as evidenced by decreases in live fetuses and increases in resorptions , occurred at 30 mg / kg / day .
SUBUTEX : Buprenorphine was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits after im or sc doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 3 and 6 times , respectively , the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , after iv doses up to 0 . 8 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 0 . 5 times and equal to , respectively , the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , or after oral doses up to 160 mg / kg / day in rats ( estimated exposure was approximately 95 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) and 25 mg / kg / day in rabbits ( estimated exposure was approximately 30 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Significant increases in skeletal abnormalities ( e . g . , extra thoracic vertebra or thoraco - lumbar ribs ) were noted in rats after sc administration of 1 mg / kg / day and up ( estimated exposure was approximately 0 . 6 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , but were not observed at oral doses up to 160 mg / kg / day .
Increases in skeletal abnormalities in rabbits after im administration of 5 mg / kg / day ( estimated exposure was approximately 6 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) or oral administration of 1 mg / kg / day or greater ( estimated exposure was approximately equal to the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) were not statistically significant .
In rabbits , buprenorphine produced statistically significant pre - implantation losses at oral doses of 1 mg / kg / day or greater and post - implantation losses that were statistically significant at iv doses of 0 . 2 mg / kg / day or greater ( estimated exposure was approximately 0 . 3 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX in pregnant women .
SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX should only be used during pregnancy if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Non - teratogenic effects . Dystocia was noted in pregnant rats treated im with buprenorphine 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Both fertility and peri - and postnatal development studies with buprenorphine in rats indicated increases in neonatal mortality after oral doses of 0 . 8 mg / kg / day and up ( approximately 0 . 5 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , after im doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg / day and up ( approximately 0 . 3 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , and after sc doses of 0 . 1 mg / kg / day and up ( approximately 0 . 06 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Delays in the occurrence of righting reflex and startle response were noted in rat pups at an oral dose of 80 mg / kg / day ( approximately 50 times the recommended human daily sublingual dose of 16 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Neonatal Withdrawal : Neonatal withdrawal has been reported in the infants of women treated with SUBUTEX during pregnancy .
From post - marketing reports , the time to onset of neonatal withdrawal symptoms ranged from Day 1 to Day 8 of life with most occurring on Day 1 .
Adverse events associated with neonatal withdrawal syndrome included hypertonia , neonatal tremor , neonatal agitation , and myoclonus .
There have been rare reports of convulsions and in one case , apnea and bradycardia were also reported .
Nursing Mothers : An apparent lack of milk production during general reproduction studies with buprenorphine in rats caused decreased viability and lactation indices .
Use of high doses of sublingual buprenorphine in pregnant women showed that buprenorphine passes into the mother ' s milk .
Breast - feeding is therefore not advised in mothers treated with SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE .
Pediatric Use : SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX are not recommended for use in pediatric patients .
The safety and effectiveness of SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX in patients below the age of 16 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The safety of SUBOXONE has been evaluated in 497 opioid - dependent subjects .
The prospective evaluation of SUBOXONE was supported by clinical trials using SUBUTEX ( buprenorphine tablets without naloxone ) and other trials using buprenorphine sublingual solutions .
In total , safety data are available from 3214 opioid - dependent subjects exposed to buprenorphine at doses in the range used in treatment of opioid addiction .
Few differences in adverse event profile were noted between SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX or buprenorphine administered as a sublingual solution .
In a comparative study , adverse event profiles were similar for subjects treated with 16 mg SUBOXONE or 16 mg SUBUTEX .
The following adverse events were reported to occur by at least 5 % of patients in a 4 - week study ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 .
Adverse Events ( ≥ 5 % ) by Body System and Treatment Group in a 4 - week Study N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Body System / Adverse Event ( COSTART Terminology ) SUBOXONE 16 mg / day N = 107 SUBUTEX 16 mg / day N = 103 Placebo N = 107 Body as a Whole Asthenia 7 ( 6 . 5 % ) 5 ( 4 . 9 % ) 7 ( 6 . 5 % ) Chills 8 ( 7 . 5 % ) 8 ( 7 . 8 % ) 8 ( 7 . 5 % ) Headache 39 ( 36 . 4 % ) 30 ( 29 . 1 % ) 24 ( 22 . 4 % ) Infection 6 ( 5 . 6 % ) 12 ( 11 . 7 % ) 7 ( 6 . 5 % ) Pain 24 ( 22 . 4 % ) 19 ( 18 . 4 % ) 20 ( 18 . 7 % ) Pain Abdomen 12 ( 11 . 2 % ) 12 ( 11 . 7 % ) 7 ( 6 . 5 % ) Pain Back 4 ( 3 . 7 % ) 8 ( 7 . 8 % ) 12 ( 11 . 2 % ) Withdrawal Syndrome 27 ( 25 . 2 % ) 19 ( 18 . 4 % ) 40 ( 37 . 4 % ) Cardiovascular System Vasodilation 10 ( 9 . 3 % ) 4 ( 3 . 9 % ) 7 ( 6 . 5 % ) Digestive System Constipation 13 ( 12 . 1 % ) 8 ( 7 . 8 % ) 3 ( 2 . 8 % ) Diarrhea 4 ( 3 . 7 % ) 5 ( 4 . 9 % ) 16 ( 15 . 0 % ) Nausea 16 ( 15 . 0 % ) 14 ( 13 . 6 % ) 12 ( 11 . 2 % ) Vomiting 8 ( 7 . 5 % ) 8 ( 7 . 8 % ) 5 ( 4 . 7 % ) Nervous System Insomnia 15 ( 14 . 0 % ) 22 ( 21 . 4 % ) 17 ( 15 . 9 % ) Respiratory System Rhinitis 5 ( 4 . 7 % ) 10 ( 9 . 7 % ) 14 ( 13 . 1 % ) Skin And Appendages Sweating 15 ( 14 . 0 % ) 13 ( 12 . 6 % ) 11 ( 10 . 3 % ) The adverse event profile of buprenorphine was also characterized in the dose - controlled study of buprenorphine solution , over a range of doses in four months of treatment .
Table 4 shows adverse events reported by at least 5 % of subjects in any dose group in the dose - controlled study .
Table 4 .
Adverse Events ( ≥ 5 % ) by Body System and Treatment Group in a 16 - week StudyBody System / Adverse Event ( COSTART Terminology ) Buprenorphine Dose * Very Low * ( N = 184 ) Low * ( N = 180 ) Moderate * ( N = 186 ) High * ( N = 181 ) Total * ( N = 731 ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Body as a Whole Abscess 9 ( 5 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 3 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 16 ( 2 % ) Asthenia 26 ( 14 % ) 28 ( 16 % ) 26 ( 14 % ) 24 ( 13 % ) 104 ( 14 % ) Chills 11 ( 6 % ) 12 ( 7 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 10 ( 6 % ) 42 ( 6 % ) Fever 7 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) 10 ( 6 % ) 21 ( 3 % ) Flu Syndrome .
4 ( 2 % ) 13 ( 7 % ) 19 ( 10 % ) 8 ( 4 % ) 44 ( 6 % ) Headache 51 ( 28 % ) 62 ( 34 % ) 54 ( 29 % ) 53 ( 29 % ) 220 ( 30 % ) Infection 32 ( 17 % ) 39 ( 22 % ) 38 ( 20 % ) 40 ( 22 % ) 149 ( 20 % ) Injury Accidental 5 ( 3 % ) 10 ( 6 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) 25 ( 3 % ) Pain 47 ( 26 % ) 37 ( 21 % ) 49 ( 26 % ) 44 ( 24 % ) 177 ( 24 % ) Pain Back 18 ( 10 % ) 29 ( 16 % ) 28 ( 15 % ) 27 ( 15 % ) 102 ( 14 % ) Withdrawal Syndrome 45 ( 24 % ) 40 ( 22 % ) 41 ( 22 % ) 36 ( 20 % ) 162 ( 22 % ) Digestive System Constipation 10 ( 5 % ) 23 ( 13 % ) 23 ( 12 % ) 26 ( 14 % ) 82 ( 11 % ) Diarrhea 19 ( 10 % ) 8 ( 4 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 40 ( 5 % ) Dyspepsia 6 ( 3 % ) 10 ( 6 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 24 ( 3 % ) Nausea 12 ( 7 % ) 22 ( 12 % ) 23 ( 12 % ) 18 ( 10 % ) 75 ( 10 % ) Vomiting 8 ( 4 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 10 ( 5 % ) 14 ( 8 % ) 38 ( 5 % ) Nervous System Anxiety 22 ( 12 % ) 24 ( 13 % ) 20 ( 11 % ) 25 ( 14 % ) 91 ( 12 % ) Depression 24 ( 13 % ) 16 ( 9 % ) 25 ( 13 % ) 18 ( 10 % ) 83 ( 11 % ) Dizziness 4 ( 2 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 7 ( 4 % ) 11 ( 6 % ) 31 ( 4 % ) Insomnia 42 ( 23 % ) 50 ( 28 % ) 43 ( 23 % ) 51 ( 28 % ) 186 ( 25 % ) Nervousness 12 ( 7 % ) 11 ( 6 % ) 10 ( 5 % ) 13 ( 7 % ) 46 ( 6 % ) Somnolence 5 ( 3 % ) 13 ( 7 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 11 ( 6 % ) 38 ( 5 % ) Respiratory System Cough Increase 5 ( 3 % ) 11 ( 6 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 26 ( 4 % ) Pharyngitis 6 ( 3 % ) 7 ( 4 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 28 ( 4 % ) Rhinitis 27 ( 15 % ) 16 ( 9 % ) 1 5 ( 8 % ) 21 ( 12 % ) 79 ( 11 % ) Skin And Appendages Sweat 23 ( 13 % ) 21 ( 12 % ) 20 ( 11 % ) 23 ( 13 % ) 87 ( 12 % ) Special Senses Runny Eyes 13 ( 7 % ) 9 ( 5 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 34 ( 5 % ) * Sublingual solution .
Doses in this table cannot necessarily be delivered in tablet form , but for comparison purposes : " Very low " dose ( 1 mg solution ) would be less than a tablet dose of 2 mg " Low " dose ( 4 mg solution ) approximates a 6 mg tablet dose " Moderate " dose ( 8 mg solution ) approximates a 12 mg tablet dose " High " dose ( 16 mg solution ) approximates a 24 mg tablet dose DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX are controlled as Schedule III narcotics under the Controlled Substances Act .
Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu - opioid receptor and chronic administration produces dependence of the opioid type , characterized by moderate withdrawal upon abrupt discontinuation or rapid taper .
The withdrawal syndrome is milder than seen with full agonists , and may be delayed in onset ( SEE WARNINGS ) Neonatal withdrawal has been reported in the infants of women treated with SUBUTEX during pregnancy ( See PRECAUTIONS ) SUBOXONE contains naloxone and if misused parenterally , is highly likely to produce marked and intense withdrawal symptoms in subjects dependent on other opioid agonists .
OVERDOSAGE Enter section text here Manifestations : Manifestations of acute overdose include pinpoint pupils , sedation , hypotension , respiratory depression and death .
Treatment : The respiratory and cardiac status of the patient should be monitored carefully .
In the event of depression of respiratory or cardiac function , primary attention should be given to the re - establishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
IN THE CASE OF OVERDOSE , THE PRIMARY MANAGEMENT SHOULD BE THE RE - ESTABLISHMENT OF ADEQUATE VENTILATION WlTH MECHANICAL ASSISTANCE OF RESPIRATION IF REQUIRED .
NALOXONE MAY NOT BE EFFECTIVE IN REVERSING ANY RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION PRODUCED BY BUPRENORPHINE .
High doses of naloxone hydrochloride .
10 - 35 mg / 70 kg may be of limited value in the management of buprenorphine overdose ..
Doxapram ( a respiratory stimulant ) also has been used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE is administered sublingually as a single daily dose in the range of 12 to 16 mg / day .
When taken sublingually , SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX have similar clinical effects and are interchangeable .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies using SUBOXONE as initial medication .
SUBUTEX contains no naloxone and is preferred for use during induction .
Following induction , SUBOXONE , due to the presence of naloxone , is preferred when clinical use includes unsupervised administration .
The use of SUBUTEX for unsupervised administration should be limited to those patients who cannot tolerate SUBOXONE , for example those patients who have been shown to be hypersensitive to naloxone .
Method of administration : SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX tablets should be placed under the tongue until they are dissolved .
For doses requiring the use of more than two tablets , patients are advised to either place all the tablets at once or alternatively ( if they cannot fit in more than two tablets comfortably ) place two tablets at a time under the tongue .
Either way , the patients should continue to hold the tablets under the tongue until they dissolve ; swallowing the tablets reduces the bioavailability of the drug .
To ensure consistency in bioavailability , patients should follow the same manner of dosing with continued use of the product .
Induction : Prior to induction , consideration should be given to the type of opioid dependence ( i . e . long - or short - acting opioid ) , the time since last opioid use , and the degree or level of opioid dependence .
To avoid precipitating withdrawal , induction with SUBUTEX should be undertaken when objective and clear signs of withdrawal are evident .
In a one - month study of SUBOXONE tablets induction was conducted with SUBUTEX tablets .
Patients received 8 mg of SUBUTEX on day 1 and 16 mg SUBUTEX on day 2 .
From day 3 onward , patients received SUBOXONE tablets at the same buprenorphine dose as day 2 .
Induction in the studies of buprenorphine solution was accomplished over 3 - 4 days , depending on the target dose .
In some studies , gradual induction over several days led to a high rate of drop - out of buprenorphine patients during the induction period .
Therefore it is recommended that an adequate maintenance dose , titrated to clinical effectiveness , should be achieved as rapidly as possible to prevent undue opioid withdrawal symptoms .
Patients taking heroin or other short - acting opioids : At treatment initiation , the dose of SUBUTEX should be administered at least 4 hours after the patient last used opioids or preferably when early signs of opioid withdrawal appear .
Patients on methadone or other long - acting opioids : There is little controlled experience with the transfer of methadone - maintained patients to buprenorphine .
Available evidence suggests that withdrawal symptoms are possible during induction to buprenorphine treatment .
Withdrawal appears more likely in patients maintained on higher doses of methadone ( > 30 mg ) and when the first buprenorphine dose is administered shortly after the last methadone dose .
Maintenance : SUBOXONE is the preferred medication for maintenance treatment due to the presence of naloxone in the formulation .
Adjusting the dose until the maintenance dose is achieved : The recommended target dose of SUBOXONE is 16 mg / day .
Clinical studies have shown that 16 mg of SUBUTEX or SUBOXONE is a clinically effective dose compared with placebo and indicate that doses as low as 12 mg may be effective in some patients .
The dosage of SUBOXONE should be progressively adjusted in increments / decrements of 2 mg or 4 mg to a level that holds the patient in treatment and suppresses opioid withdrawal effects .
This is likely to be in the range of 4 mg to 24 mg per day depending on the individual .
Reducing dosage and stopping treatment : The decision to discontinue therapy with SUBOXONE or SUBUTEX after a period of maintenance or brief stabilization should be made as part of a comprehensive treatment plan .
Both gradual and abrupt discontinuation have been used , but no controlled trials have been undertaken to determine the best method of dose taper at the end of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED SUBOXONE is supplied as sublingual tablets in white HDPE bottles .
Hexagonal orange tablets containing 2 mg buprenorphine with 0 . 5 mg naloxone NDC 54868 - 5750 - 0 30 tablets per bottle Hexagonal orange tablets containing 8 mg buprenorphine with 2 mg naloxone NDC 54868 - 5707 - 4 NDC 54868 - 5707 - 2 NDC 54868 - 5707 - 1 NDC 54868 - 5707 - 3 NDC 54868 - 5707 - 0 07 tablets per bottle 14 tablets per bottle 21 tablets per bottle 28 tablets per bottle 30 tablets per bottle Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Manufactured by : Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare ( UK ) Ltd Hull , UK , HU8 7 DS Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Richmond , VA 23235 Last revised , June 2005 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL SUBOXONE 2 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 mg tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
