Rx Only PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE - Not for Direct Infusion To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefuroxime for Injection and other antibacterial drugs , Cefuroxime for Injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cefuroxime , USP is a sterile semisynthetic , broad - spectrum , cephalosporin antibiotic for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of ( 6 R , 7 R ) - 3 - carbamoyloxymethyl - 7 - [ Z - 2 - methoxyimino - 2 - ( fur - 2 - yl ) acetamido ] ceph - 3 - em - 4 - carboxylate , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C16H15N4NaO8S , representing a molecular weight of 446 . 4 .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP contains approximately 54 . 2 mg ( 2 . 4 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefuroxime activity .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP in sterile crystalline form is supplied as Pharmacy Bulk Package equivalent to 7 . 5 g of cefuroxime as cefuroxime sodium .
Solutions of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP range in color from light yellow to amber , depending on the concentration and diluent used .
The pH of freshly constituted solutions usually ranges from 6 to 8 . 5 .
A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses .
The contents are intended for use in a pharmacy admixture service and are restricted to the preparation of admixtures for intravenous infusion .
FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED BEFORE USE .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intramuscular ( IM ) injection of a 750 - mg dose of cefuroxime to normal volunteers , the mean peak serum concentration was 27 mcg / mL .
The peak occurred at approximately 45 minutes ( range , 15 to 60 minutes ) .
Following IV doses of 750 mg and 1 . 5 g , serum concentrations were approximately 50 and 100 mcg / mL , respectively , at 15 minutes .
Therapeutic serum concentrations of approximately 2 mcg / mL or more were maintained for 5 . 3 hours and 8 hours or more , respectively .
There was no evidence of accumulation of cefuroxime in the serum following IV administration of 1 . 5 - g doses every 8 hours to normal volunteers .
The serum half - life after either IM or IV injections is approximately 80 minutes .
Approximately 89 % of a dose of cefuroxime is excreted by the kidneys over an 8 - hour period , resulting in high urinary concentrations .
Following the IM administration of a 750 - mg single dose , urinary concentrations averaged 1 , 300 mcg / mL during the first 8 hours .
Intravenous doses of 750 mg and 1 . 5 g produced urinary levels averaging 1 , 150 and 2 , 500 mcg / mL , respectively , during the first 8 - hour period .
The concomitant oral administration of probenecid with cefuroxime slows tubular secretion , decreases renal clearance by approximately 40 % , increases the peak serum level by approximately 30 % , and increases the serum half - life by approximately 30 % .
Cefuroxime is detectable in therapeutic concentrations in pleural fluid , joint fluid , bile , sputum , bone , and aqueous humor .
Cefuroxime is detectable in therapeutic concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) of adults and pediatric patients with meningitis .
The following table shows the concentrations of cefuroxime achieved in cerebrospinal fluid during multiple dosing of patients with meningitis .
Table 1 .
Concentrations of Cefuroxime Achieved in Cerebrospinal Fluid During Multiple Dosing of Patients with MeningitisPatients Dose Number of Patients Mean ( Range ) CSF Cefuroxime Concentrations ( mcg / mL ) Achieved Within 8 Hours Post Dose Pediatric patients ( 4 weeks to 6 . 5 years ) 200 mg / kg / day , divided q 6 hours 5 6 . 6 ( 0 . 9 - 17 . 3 ) Pediatric patients ( 7 months to 9 years ) 200 to 230 mg / kg / day , divided q 8 hours 6 8 . 3 ( < 2 - 22 . 5 ) Adults 1 . 5 grams q 8 hours 2 5 . 2 ( 2 . 7 - 8 . 9 ) Adults 1 . 5 grams q 6 hours 10 6 . 0 ( 1 . 5 - 13 . 5 ) Cefuroxime is approximately 50 % bound to serum protein .
Microbiology Mechanism of Action : Cefuroxime is a bactericidal agent that acts by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis .
Cefuroxime has activity in the presence of some beta - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of Gram - negative and Gram - positive bacteria .
Mechanism of Resistance : Resistance to cefuroxime is primarily through hydrolysis by beta - lactamase , alteration of penicillin - binding proteins ( PBPs ) , and decreased permeability .
Interaction with Other Antimicrobials In an in vitro study antagonistic effects have been observed with the combination of chloramphenicol and cefuroxime .
Cefuroxime has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following bacteria , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Gram - negative bacteria • Enterobacter spp .
• Escherichia coli • Klebsiella spp .
• Haemophilus influenzae • Neisseria meningitidis • Neisseria gonorrhoeae Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus aureus • Streptococcus pneumoniae • Streptococcus pyogenes The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
At least 90 percent of the following bacteria exhibit an in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) less than or equal to the susceptible breakpoint for cefuroxime against isolates of similar genus or organism group .
However , the efficacy of cefuroxime in treating clinical infections caused by these bacteria has not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials .
Gram - negative bacteria • Citrobacter spp .
• Providencia rettgeri • Haemophilus parainfluenzae • Proteus mirabilis • Moraxella catarrhalis • Morganella morganii • Salmonella spp .
• Shigella spp .
Gram - positive bacteria • Staphylococcus epidermidis Susceptibility Testing : For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of patients with infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated organisms in the following diseases : • Lower Respiratory Tract Infections , including pneumonia , caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , Klebsiella spp . , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Streptococcus pyogenes , and Escherichia coli .
• Urinary Tract Infections caused by Escherichia coli and Klebsiella spp .
• Skin and Skin - Structure Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) , Streptococcus pyogenes , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella spp . , and Enterobacter spp .
• Septicemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase producing strains ) , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , and Klebsiella spp .
• Meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) , Neisseria meningitidis , and Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) .
• Gonorrhea : uncomplicated and disseminated gonococcal infections due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) in both males and females .
• Bone and Joint Infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase - and non - penicillinase - producing strains ) .
Clinical microbiological studies in skin and skin - structure infections frequently reveal the growth of susceptible strains of both aerobic and anaerobic organisms .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP has been used successfully in these mixed infections in which several organisms have been isolated .
In certain cases of confirmed or suspected gram - positive or gram - negative sepsis or in patients with other serious infections in which the causative organism has not been identified , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may be used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
The recommended doses of both antibiotics may be given depending on the severity of the infection and the patient ’ s condition .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Prevention : The preoperative prophylactic administration of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP may prevent the growth of susceptible disease - causing bacteria and thereby may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy ) that are classified as clean - contaminated or potentially contaminated procedures .
Effective prophylactic use of antibiotics in surgery depends on the time of administration .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP should usually be given one - half to 1 hour before the operation to allow sufficient time to achieve effective antibiotic concentrations in the wound tissues during the procedure .
The dose should be repeated intraoperatively if the surgical procedure is lengthy .
Prophylactic administration is usually not required after the surgical procedure ends and should be stopped within 24 hours .
In the majority of surgical procedures , continuing prophylactic administration of any antibiotic does not reduce the incidence of subsequent infections but will increase the possibility of adverse reactions and the development of bacterial resistance .
The perioperative use of Cefuroxime for Injection , USP has also been effective during open heart surgery for surgical patients in whom infections at the operative site would present a serious risk .
For these patients it is recommended that therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection , USP be continued for at least 48 hours after the surgical procedure ends .
If an infection is present , specimens for culture should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism , and appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be instituted .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefuroxime for Injection is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFUROXIME FOR INJECTION IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN CAUTIOUSLY TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFUROXIME FOR INJECTION OCCURS , DISCONTINUE THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
Clostridioides difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including Cefuroxime for Injection , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
When the colitis is not relieved by drug discontinuation or when it is severe , oral vancomycin is the treatment of choice for antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridioides difficile .
Other causes of colitis should also be considered .
PRECAUTIONS General : Although Cefuroxime for Injection rarely produces alterations in kidney function , evaluation of renal status during therapy is recommended , especially in seriously ill patients receiving the maximum doses .
Cephalosporins should be given with caution to patients receiving concurrent treatment with potent diuretics as these regimens are suspected of adversely affecting renal function .
The total daily dose of Cefuroxime for Injection should be reduced in patients with transient or persistent renal insufficiency ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) , because high and prolonged serum antibiotic concentrations can occur in such individuals from usual doses .
As with other antibiotics , prolonged use of Cefuroxime for Injection may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms .
Careful observation of the patient is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
Broad - spectrum antibiotics should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of aminoglycoside antibiotics and cephalosporins .
As with other therapeutic regimens used in the treatment of meningitis , mild - to - moderate hearing loss has been reported in a few pediatric patients treated with cefuroxime .
Persistence of positive CSF ( cerebrospinal fluid ) cultures at 18 to 36 hours has also been noted with cefuroxime injection , as well as with other antibiotic therapies ; however , the clinical relevance of this is unknown .
Cephalosporins may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment , or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous Vitamin K administered as indicated .
Prescribing Cefuroxime for Injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients : Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including Cefuroxime for Injection , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefuroxime for Injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment , and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefuroxime for Injection or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as 2 or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : A false - positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with copper reduction tests ( Benedict ' s or Fehling ’ s solution or with CLINITEST ® tablets ) but not with enzyme - based tests for glycosuria .
As a false - negative result may occur in the ferricyanide test , it is recommended that either the glucose oxidase or hexokinase method be used to determine blood plasma glucose levels in patients receiving Cefuroxime for Injection .
Cefuroxime does not interfere with the assay of serum and urine creatinine by the alkaline picrate method .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Although lifetime studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , no mutagenic activity was found for cefuroxime in the mouse lymphoma assay and a battery of bacterial mutation tests .
Positive results were obtained in an in vitro chromosome aberration assay , however , negative results were found in an in vivo micronucleus test at doses up to 10 g / kg .
Reproduction studies in mice at doses up to 3 , 200 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) have revealed no impairment of fertility .
Reproductive studies revealed no impairment of fertility in animals .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Reproduction studies have been performed in mice at doses up to 6 , 400 mg / kg / day ( 6 . 3 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) and rabbits at doses up to 400 mg / kg / day ( 2 . 1 times the recommended maximum human dose based on mg / m2 ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefuroxime .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Since cefuroxime is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Cefuroxime for Injection is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below 3 months of age have not been established .
Accumulation of other members of the cephalosporin class in newborn infants ( with resulting prolongation of drug half - life ) has been reported .
Geriatric Use : Of the 1 , 914 subjects who received cefuroxime in 24 clinical studies of Cefuroxime for Injection , 901 ( 47 % ) were 65 years and older while 421 ( 22 % ) were 75 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater susceptibility of some older individuals to drug effects cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cefuroxime for Injection is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse effects have been local reactions following IV administration .
Other adverse reactions have been encountered only rarely .
Local Reactions : Thrombophlebitis has occurred with IV administration in 1 in 60 patients .
Gastrointestinal : Gastrointestinal symptoms occurred in 1 in 150 patients and included diarrhea ( 1 in 220 patients ) and nausea ( 1 in 440 patients ) .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in fewer than 1 % of the patients treated with Cefuroxime for Injection and include rash ( 1 in 125 ) .
Pruritus , urticaria , and positive Coombs ' test each occurred in fewer than 1 in 250 patients , and , as with other cephalosporins , rare cases of anaphylaxis , drug fever , erythema multiforme , interstitial nephritis , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have occurred .
Blood : A decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit has been observed in 1 in 10 patients and transient eosinophilia in 1 in 14 patients .
Less common reactions seen were transient neutropenia ( fewer than 1 in 100 patients ) and leukopenia ( 1 in 750 patients ) .
A similar pattern and incidence were seen with other cephalosporins used in controlled studies .
As with other cephalosporins , there have been rare reports of thrombocytopenia .
Hepatic : Transient rise in SGOT and SGPT ( 1 in 25 patients ) , alkaline phosphatase ( 1 in 50 patients ) , LDH ( 1 in 75 patients ) , and bilirubin ( 1 in 500 patients ) levels has been noted .
Kidney : Elevations in serum creatinine and / or blood urea nitrogen and a decreased creatinine clearance have been observed , but their relationship to cefuroxime is unknown .
Postmarketing Experience with Cefuroxime for Injection : In addition to the adverse events reported during clinical trials , the following events have been observed during clinical practice in patients treated with Cefuroxime for Injection and were reported spontaneously .
Data are generally insufficient to allow an estimate of incidence or to establish causation .
Immune System Disorders : Cutaneous vasculitis , angioedema , acute myocardial ischemia with or without myocardial infarction may occur as part of an allergic reaction .
Nervous System Disorders : Seizure .
Cephalosporin - class Adverse Reactions : In addition to the adverse reactions listed above that have been observed in patients treated with cefuroxime , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin - class antibiotics : Adverse Reactions : Vomiting , abdominal pain , colitis , vaginitis including vaginal candidiasis , toxic nephropathy , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemolytic anemia , hemorrhage .
Several cephalosporins , including Cefuroxime for Injection , have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If seizures associated with drug therapy should occur , the drug should be discontinued .
Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
Altered Laboratory Tests Prolonged prothrombin time , pancytopenia , agranulocytosis .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of cephalosporins can cause cerebral irritation leading to convulsions .
Serum levels of cefuroxime can be reduced by hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The intent of the Pharmacy Bulk Package is for the preparation of solutions for intravenous infusion only .
Dosing reference to the intramuscular route of administration is for informational purposes only .
Dosage : Adults : The usual adult dosage range for Cefuroxime for Injection is 750 mg to 1 . 5 grams every 8 hours , usually for 5 to 10 days .
In uncomplicated urinary tract infections , skin and skin - structure infections , disseminated gonococcal infections , and uncomplicated pneumonia , a 750 - mg dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In severe or complicated infections , a 1 . 5 - gram dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In bone and joint infections , a 1 . 5 - gram dose every 8 hours is recommended .
In clinical trials , surgical intervention was performed when indicated as an adjunct to therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection .
A course of oral antibiotics was administered when appropriate following the completion of parenteral administration of Cefuroxime for Injection .
In life - threatening infections or infections due to less susceptible organisms , 1 . 5 grams every 6 hours may be required .
In bacterial meningitis , the dosage should not exceed 3 grams every 8 hours .
The recommended dosage for uncomplicated gonococcal infection is 1 . 5 grams given intramuscularly as a single dose at 2 different sites together with 1 gram of oral probenecid .
For preventive use for clean - contaminated or potentially contaminated surgical procedures , a 1 . 5 - gram dose administered intravenously just before surgery ( approximately one - half to 1 hour before the initial incision ) is recommended .
Thereafter , give 750 mg intravenously or intramuscularly every 8 hours when the procedure is prolonged .
For preventive use during open heart surgery , a 1 . 5 - gram dose administered intravenously at the induction of anesthesia and every 12 hours thereafter for a total of 6 grams is recommended .
Impaired Renal Function : A reduced dosage must be employed when renal function is impaired .
Dosage should be determined by the degree of renal impairment and the susceptibility of the causative organism ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Dosage of Cefuroxime for Injection in Adults With Reduced Renal FunctionCreatinine Clearance mL / min ) Dose Frequency > 20 750 mg - 1 . 5 grams q8h 10 - 20 750 mg q12h < 10 750 mg q24h [ 1 ] [ 1 ] Since Cefuroxime for Injection is dialyzable , patients on hemodialysis should be given a further dose at the end of the dialysis .
When only serum creatinine is available , the following formula1 ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Males : Creatinine clearance ( mL / min ) = Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 - age ) 72 x serum creatinine ( mg / dL ) Females : 0 . 85 x male value NOTE : As with antibiotic therapy in general , administration of Cefuroxime for Injection should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient becomes asymptomatic or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained ; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is recommended in infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ; frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed ; persistent infections may require treatment for several weeks ; and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used .
In staphylococcal and other infections involving a collection of pus , surgical drainage should be carried out where indicated .
Pediatric Patients Above 3 Months of Age : Administration of 50 to 100 mg / kg / day in equally divided doses every 6 to 8 hours has been successful for most infections susceptible to cefuroxime .
The higher dosage of 100 mg / kg / day ( not to exceed the maximum adult dosage ) should be used for the more severe or serious infections .
In bone and joint infections , 150 mg / kg / day ( not to exceed the maximum adult dosage ) is recommended in equally divided doses every 8 hours .
In clinical trials , a course of oral antibiotics was administered to pediatric patients following the completion of parenteral administration of Cefuroxime for Injection .
In cases of bacterial meningitis , a larger dosage of Cefuroxime for Injection is recommended , 200 to 240 mg / kg / day intravenously in divided doses every 6 to 8 hours .
In pediatric patients with renal insufficiency , the frequency of dosing should be modified consistent with the recommendations for adults .
Preparation of Solution and Suspension : The directions for preparing Cefuroxime for Injection , Pharmacy Bulk Package , are summarized in Table 5 .
THIS PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT FOR DIRECT INFUSION For Intravenous Use : The 7 . 5 gram pharmacy bulk package should be reconstituted with 77 mL of Sterile Water for Injection ; the constituted solution occupies a volume of about 82 . 5 mL and contains approximately 750 mg of cefuroxime per 8 mL .
Not for direct infusion .
Disperse aliquots from the vial via a suitable dispersing device into infusion fluids under a laminar flow hood using aseptic technique .
DISCARD VIALS 4 HOURS AFTER INITIAL ENTRY .
Color changes in solution do not affect potency .
Table 3 .
Preparation of Solution Strength Amount of Diluent to Be Added ( mL ) Volume to be Withdrawn Approximate Cefuroxime Concentration ( mg / mL ) 7 . 5 - gram Pharmacy Bulk Package 77 ( IV ) Amount Needed [ 1 ] 95 [ 1 ] 8 mL of solution contains 750 mg of cefuroxime ; 16 mL of solution contains 1 . 5 grams of cefuroxime .
Administration : After constitution , Cefuroxime for Injection may be given intravenously or intramuscularly .
However , the intent of this Pharmacy Bulk Package is for the preparation of solutions for intravenous infusion only .
Intravenous Administration : The IV route may be preferable for patients with bacterial septicemia or other severe or life - threatening infections or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance , particularly if shock is present or impending .
For intermittent IV Infusion with a Y - type administration set , dosing can be accomplished through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other IV solutions .
However , during infusion of the solution containing Cefuroxime for Injection , it is advisable to temporarily discontinue administration of any other solutions at the same site .
For continuous IV infusion , a solution of Cefuroxime for Injection may be added to an IV infusion pack containing one of the following fluids : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose Injection ; 10 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; or 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection .
Solutions of Cefuroxime for Injection , like those of most beta - lactam antibiotics , should not be added to solutions of aminoglycoside antibiotics because of potential interaction .
However , if concurrent therapy with Cefuroxime for Injection and an aminoglycoside is indicated , each of these antibiotics can be administered separately to the same patient .
COMPATIBILITY AND STABILITY Intravenous : The 7 . 5 g Pharmacy Bulk Package vials are to be constituted as directed with Sterile Water for Injection , the withdrawal of container contents should be completed within 4 hours .
More dilute solutions , such as 750 mg or 1 . 5 g plus 100 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , 5 % Dextrose Injection , or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , also maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at room temperature and 7 days under refrigeration .
These solutions may be further diluted to concentrations of between 1 and 30 mg / mL in the following solutions and will lose not more than 10 % activity for 24 hours at room temperature or for at least 7 days under refrigeration : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 1 / 6 M Sodium Lactate Injection , Ringer ’ s Injection , USP ; Lactated Ringer ’ s Injection , USP ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 225 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 10 % Dextrose Injection ; and 10 % Invert Sugar in Water for Injection .
Unused solutions should be discarded after the time periods mentioned above .
Cefuroxime for Injection has also been found compatible for 24 hours at room temperature when admixed in IV infusion with heparin ( 10 and 50 U / mL ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection and Potassium Chloride ( 10 and 40 mEq / L ) in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection .
Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP is not recommended for the dilution of Cefuroxime for Injection .
Frozen Stability : Constitute the 7 . 5 g Pharmacy Bulk Package as directed for intravenous administration in Table 5 .
Immediately withdraw the 8 or 16 mL from the 7 . 5 g bulk vial and add to a compatible container containing 50 or 100 mL of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection or 5 % Dextrose Injection and freeze .
Frozen solutions are stable for 6 months when stored at - 20ºC .
Frozen solutions should be thawed at room temperature and not refrozen .
Do not force thaw by immersion in water baths or by microwave irradiation .
Thawed solutions may be stored for up to 24 hours at room temperature or for 7 days in a refrigerator .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before administration whenever solution and container permit .
As with other cephalosporins , Cefuroxime for Injection powder as well as solutions and suspensions tend to darken , depending on storage conditions , without adversely affecting product potency .
Directions for Dispensing : Pharmacy Bulk Package — Not for Direct Infusion : The pharmacy bulk package is for use in a pharmacy admixture service only under a laminar flow hood .
Entry into the vial must be made with a sterile transfer set or other sterile dispensing device , and the contents dispensed in aliquots using aseptic technique .
The use of syringe and needle is not recommended as it may cause leakage ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
AFTER INITIAL WITHDRAWAL USE ENTIRE CONTENTS OF VIAL PROMPTLY .
ANY UNUSED PORTION MUST BE DISCARDED WITHIN 4 HOURS .
HOW SUPPLIED Cefuroxime for Injection , USP in the dry state should be stored at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] and protected from light .
Cefuroxime for Injection , USP is a dry , white to off - white powder supplied as follows : NDC 0143 - 9569 - 10 Sterile Cefuroxime Sodium USP , 7 . 5 grams Carton of 10 Equivalent to Cefuroxime , Pharmacy Bulk Package Also available as : NDC 0143 - 9568 - 25 Sterile Cefuroxime Sodium USP , 750 mg Carton of 25 Equivalent to Cefuroxime , IM / IV Injection NDC 0143 - 9567 - 25 Sterile Cefuroxime Sodium , USP 1 . 5 grams Carton of 25 Equivalent to Cefuroxime , IV Injection REFERENCES 1 .
Cockcroft DW , Gault MH .
Prediction of creatinine clearance from serum creatinine .
Nephron .
1976 ; 16 : 31 - 41 .
CLINITEST ® is a registered trademark of Ames Division , Miles Laboratories , Inc .
Manufactured by : Hikma Farmacêutica ( Portugal ) , S . A . 2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT PORTUGAL Distributed by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 Novaplus is a registered trademark of Vizient , Inc . novaplus + Revised : November 2021 PIN384 - NOV / 5 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9569 - 01 Rx ONLY Cefuroxime for Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION For Intravenous use ONLY 7 . 5 g per vial NOT TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9569 - 10 Rx ONLY Cefuroxime for Injection , USP PHARMACY BULK PACKAGE NOT FOR DIRECT INFUSION For Intravenous use ONLY 7 . 5 g per vial AFTER CONSTITUTION FURTHER DILUTION IS REQUIRED PRIOR TO USE .
THIS PACKAGE IS NOT INTENDED TO BE DISPENSED AS A UNIT .
10 x 7 . 5 g vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
