This is a Rinse free hand cleanser repackaged / labeled .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with Center for Disease Control recommendations : • Cleaning hands at key times with soap and water or hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 % alcohol is one of the most important steps you can take to avoid getting sick and spreading germs to those around you .
The firm does not add other active ingredients .
Any additional ingredients added have been precisly measured and do not drop active ingredient below 62 % Ethyl Alcohol , and does not impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 62 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , Deionized Water , Propylene Glycol , Hydroxypropylcellulose , Lauryl Lactate , Myristyl Lactate , Cetyl Lactate , Organic Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Extract , Panthenol ( Pro - Vitamin B5 ) , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E Acetate ) Package Label - Principal Display Panel 118 mL NDC : 73909 - 0918 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 59 mL 73909 - 0918 - 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
