Drug Facts Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 15 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • Retains SPF after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop using and ask a doctor if a rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or call a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally and spread evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure and as needed .
• Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera Gel ) Juice , Aqua ( Deionized Water ) , Bixa Orellana ( Annatto ) Extract , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Caprylyl Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Oil , Citrullus Lanatus ( Watermelon ) Extract , Daucus Carota Sativa ( Carrot ) Extract , Decyl Glucoside , Ethyl Vanillin , Glycerin , Glyceryl Caprylate , Glyceryl Stearate , Glyceryl Undecylenate , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Oil , Hippophae Rhamnoides ( Sea Buckthorn ) Oil , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Stearic Acid , Xanthan Gum , Zemea ( Corn ) Propanediol .
Other Information Protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
