This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Hydrogenated Castor Oil • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
• Carbomer • Phenoxyethanol • Benzyl Alcohol • Sodium Hydroxide • Fragrance ( parfum ) The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • Do not use in on open skin wounds .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • Apply enough product to thoroughly cover hands .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Apply enough product to thoroughly cover hands .
Rub hands together until dry .
Other information • Do not store above 110 ' F ( 43 " C ) .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Carbomer , Phenoxyethanol , Fragrance ( parfum ) , Benzyl Alcohol , Sodium Hydroxide Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 60 mL NDC : 75257 - 170 - 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
