Drug Facts Dental Relief Active Ingredients Benzocaine 20 % ( w / w ) Purpose Oral antiseptic Uses For temporary relief of minor pain and sore mouth associated with toothache , minor dental procedures and irritations from dentures or orthodontic appliances .
Warnings For oral use only Allergy alert Do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anaesthetics , such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other “ caine ” anaesthetics due to the possibility of anaphylactic shock .
When using this product Do not use for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor .
If sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days ; if irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens ; or if swelling , rash , fever or other allergic reaction develops , see your doctor or dentist promptly .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for pain relief and protection is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 2 years and older : dry affected area and apply medication undiluted ; Use up to 4 times daily , but not more than every two hours , or as directed by a dentist or doctor • Consult a dentist or doctor for use on children under 2 years of age • Children under 12 years of should be supervised in the use of this product Other information • Do not use if packet is torn , cut or opened • Store at room temperature , 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) • Avoid contact with eyes Inactive Ingredients PEG 400 , PEG 3350 , peppermint oil , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid Principal Display Panel – 0 . 5 gram Packet Dental Relief Active ingredients : Benzocaine ( 20 % ) , Compound benzoin tincture USES : Temporarily relieves pain due to canker sores , minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances , or minor mouth and gum injuries .
Do not use if packet is torn or broken NET WT 0 . 5 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Pocket Card DENTAL RELIEF PROFESSIONAL STRENGTH RELIEVES DENTAL PAIN COMPARE TO ORAJEL SEE DRUG FACTS CARD FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS 560718 12 / 13 Xpect First aid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
