Active ingredients Naphazoline hydrochloride ( 0 . 012 % ) Polyethylene glycol 300 ( 0 . 2 % ) Purpose Redness reliever Lubricant Uses • • relieves redness of the eye due to minor eye irritations • • temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye • • protects against further irritation Warnings For external use only Do not use • • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy Ask a doctor before use if you have • • narrow angle glaucoma When using this product • • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • do not overuse as it may produce increased redness of the eye • • pupils may become enlarged temporarily • • remove contact lenses before using • • replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye • • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • instill 1 to 2 drops in the affected eye ( s ) up to four times daily Other information • • store at 15 - 25 ° C ( 59 - 77 ° F ) • • keep tightly closed • • use before expiration date marked on the carton and bottle Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , boric acid , edetate disodium , sodium borate , sodium chloride , water for injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be used to adjust pH . Questions or comments ?
[ phone icon ] Call : 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 Marketed by : Bausch & Lomb Americas Inc .
Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Bausch + Lomb Advanced Eye Relief is a trademark of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates .
© 2022 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated or its affiliates www . bausch . com Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] BAUSCH + LOMB ADVANCED Eye Relief ® Redness REDNESS RELIEVER / LUBRICANT EYE DROPS • • Relieves red , irritated eyes • • Moisturizes and comforts STERILE 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 15 mL ) 3843801 AB55811A [ MULTIMEDIA ]
