1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % is indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older .
DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % , is a retinoid , indicated for the topical treatment of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening , after washing gently with a non - medicated soap .
Avoid application to the areas of skin around eyes , lips , and mucous membranes .
A mild transitory sensation of warmth or slight stinging may occur shortly after the application of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
Patients should be instructed to minimize sun exposure .
Patients may be instructed to use moisturizers for relief of dry skin or irritation .
If therapeutic results are not noticed after 12 weeks of treatment , therapy should be re - evaluated .
For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening , after washing gently with a non - medicated soap .
( 2 ) For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Each gram of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % contains 3 mg adapalene in an off - white aqueous gel .
Each gram of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % contains 3 mg adapalene in an off - white aqueous gel .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % should not be administered to individuals who are hypersensitive to adapalene or any of the components in the gel vehicle .
DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % should not be administered to individuals who are hypersensitive to adapalene or any of the components in the gel vehicle .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure : Avoid exposure to sunlight and sunlamps .
Wear sunscreen when sun exposure cannot be avoided .
( 5 . 1 ) Erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning were reported with use of DIFFERIN Gel .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Ultraviolet Light and Environmental Exposure Exposure to sunlight , including sunlamps , should be minimized during use of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
Patients who normally experience high levels of sun exposure , and those with inherent sensitivity to sun , should be warned to exercise caution .
Use of sunscreen products and protective clothing over treated areas is recommended when exposure cannot be avoided .
Weather extremes , such as wind or cold , also may be irritating to patients under treatment with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
5 . 2 Local Cutaneous Reactions Certain cutaneous signs and symptoms of treatment such as erythema , scaling , dryness , and stinging / burning were reported with use of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
These were most likely to occur during the first four weeks of treatment , were mostly mild to moderate in intensity , and usually lessened with continued use of the medication .
Depending upon the severity of these side effects , patients should be instructed to either use a moisturizer , reduce the frequency of application of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % or discontinue use .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
The product should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous or sunburned skin .
As with other retinoids , use of " waxing " as a depilatory method should be avoided on skin treated with adapalene .
As DIFFERIN Gel has the potential to induce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
5 . 3 Allergic / Hypersensitivity Reactions Reactions characterized by symptoms such as pruritus , face edema , eyelid edema , and lip swelling , requiring medical treatment have been reported during postmarketing use of adapalene .
A patient should stop using DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % and consult a doctor if experiencing allergic or anaphylactoid / anaphylactic reactions ( e . g . , skin rash , pruritus , hives , chest pain , edema , and shortness of breath ) during treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported ( ≥ 1 % ) adverse reactions were dry skin , skin discomfort , pruritus , desquamation , and sunburn .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Galderma Laboratories , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reactions rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the multi - center , controlled clinical trial , signs and symptoms of local cutaneous irritation were monitored in 258 acne patients who used DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % once daily for 12 weeks .
Of the patients who experienced cutaneous irritation ( erythema , scaling , dryness , and / or burning / stinging ) , the majority of cases were mild to moderate in severity , occurred early in treatment and decreased thereafter .
The incidence of local cutaneous irritation with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % from the controlled clinical study is provided in the following table : Table 1 : Physician assessed local cutaneous irritation with DIFFERIN GelIncidence of Local Cutaneous Irritation with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % from Controlled Clinical Study ( N = 253 * ) Maximum Severity Scores Higher Than Baseline Mild Moderate Severe Erythema 66 ( 26 . 1 % ) 33 ( 13 . 0 % ) 1 ( 0 . 4 % ) Scaling 110 ( 43 . 5 % ) 47 ( 18 . 6 % ) 3 ( 1 . 2 % ) Dryness 113 ( 44 . 7 % ) 43 ( 17 . 0 % ) 2 ( 0 . 8 % ) Burning / Stinging 72 ( 28 . 5 % ) 36 ( 14 . 2 % ) 9 ( 3 . 6 % ) * Total number of subjects with local cutaneous data for at least one post - Baseline evaluation .
Table 2 : Patient reported local cutaneous adverse reactions with DIFFERIN Gel DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % Vehicle Gel N = 258 N = 134 Related * Adverse Reactions 57 ( 22 . 1 % ) 6 ( 4 . 5 % ) Dry Skin 36 ( 14 % ) 2 ( 1 . 5 % ) Skin Discomfort 15 ( 5 . 8 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) Desquamation 4 ( 1 . 6 % ) 0 ( 0 . 0 % ) * Selected adverse reactions defined by investigator as Possibly , Probably or Definitely Related Related adverse reactions from the controlled clinical trial that occurred in greater than 1 % of patients who used DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % once daily included : dry skin ( 14 . 0 % ) , skin discomfort ( 5 . 8 % ) , pruritus ( 1 . 9 % ) , desquamation ( 1 . 6 % ) , and sunburn ( 1 . 2 % ) .
The following selected adverse reactions occurred in less than 1 % of patients : acne flare , contact dermatitis , eyelid edema , conjunctivitis , erythema , pruritus , skin discoloration , rash , and eczema .
In a one - year , open - label safety study of 551 patients with acne who received DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % , the pattern of adverse reactions was similar to the 12 - week controlled study .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of adapalene : skin irritation , application site pain , face edema , eyelid edema , lip swelling , and angioedema .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant Topical Medications As DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % has the potential to induce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
Particular caution should be exercised in using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid in combination with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
If these preparations have been used , it is advisable not to start therapy with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % , until the effects of such preparations have subsided .
No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
As DIFFERIN Gel has the potential to induce local irritation in some patients , concomitant use of other potentially irritating topical products ( medicated or abrasive soaps and cleansers , soaps and cosmetics that have a strong drying effect , and products with high concentrations of alcohol , astringents , spices , or lime ) should be approached with caution .
Use with caution , especially when using preparations containing sulfur , resorcinol , or salicylic acid in combination with DIFFERIN Gel .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects .
Pregnancy Category C . Retinoids may cause fetal harm , when administered to pregnant women .
Adapalene has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits when administered orally ( see Animal Data below ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
The safety and efficacy of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % in pregnancy has not been established .
Human Data In clinical trials involving DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % in the treatment of acne vulgaris , women of child - bearing potential initiated treatment only after having had a negative pregnancy test and used effective birth control measures during therapy .
However , 6 women treated with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % became pregnant .
One patient elected to terminate the pregnancy , two patients delivered healthy babies by normal delivery , two patients delivered prematurely and the babies remained in intensive care until reaching a healthy state and one patient was lost to follow - up .
Animal Data • No teratogenic effects were seen in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 to 5 . 0 mg / kg / day adapalene representing up to 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) based on mg / m ² comparisons .
Adapalene has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits when administered orally at doses ≥ 25 mg / kg representing 32 and 65 times , respectively , the MRHD based on mg / m ² comparisons .
Findings included cleft palate , microphthalmia , encephalocele and skeletal abnormalities in the rat and umbilical hernia , exophthalmos and kidney and skeletal abnormalities in the rabbit .
• Cutaneous teratology studies in rats and rabbits at doses of 0 . 6 , 2 . 0 , and 6 . 0 mg / kg / day exhibited no fetotoxicity and only minimal increases in supernumerary ribs in both species and delayed ossification in rabbits .
Systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 24 h ) to adapalene 0 . 3 % gel at topical doses of 6 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats and rabbits represented 5 . 7 and 28 . 7 times , respectively , the exposure in acne patients treated with adapalene 0 . 3 % gel applied to the face , chest and back ( 2 grams applied to 1000 cm2 of acne involved skin ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether adapalene is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients below the age of 12 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % did not include subjects 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Safety and effectiveness in geriatric patients age 65 and above have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % is intended for topical use only .
If the medication is applied excessively , no more rapid or better results will be obtained and marked redness , scaling , or skin discomfort may occur .
Chronic ingestion of the drug may lead to the same side effects as those associated with excessive oral intake of vitamin A . 11 DESCRIPTION DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % contains adapalene 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / g ) in a topical aqueous gel for use in the treatment of acne vulgaris , consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 124 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
The chemical name of adapalene is 6 - [ 3 - ( 1 - adamantyl ) - 4 - methoxyphenyl ] - 2 - naphthoic acid .
It is a white to off - white powder , which is soluble in tetrahydrofuran , very slightly soluble in ethanol , and practically insoluble in water .
The molecular formula is C28H28O3 and molecular weight is 412 . 53 .
Adapalene is represented by the following structural formula .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Adapalene binds to specific retinoic acid nuclear receptors but does not bind to cytosolic receptor protein .
Biochemical and pharmacological profile studies have demonstrated that adapalene is a modulator of cellular differentiation , keratinization , and inflammatory processes .
However , the significance of these findings with regard to the mechanism of action of adapalene for the treatment of acne is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Clinical pharmacodynamic studies have not been conducted for Differin Gel , 0 . 3 % .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Systemic exposure of adapalene following topical application of DIFFERIN Gel was evaluated in a clinical study .
Sixteen acne patients were treated once daily for 10 days with 2 grams of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % applied to the face , chest and back , corresponding to approximately 2 mg / cm2 .
Fifteen patients had quantifiable ( LOQ = 0 . 1 ng / mL ) adapalene levels resulting in a mean Cmax of 0 . 553 ± 0 . 466 ng / mL on Day 10 of treatment .
The mean AUC0 - 24 hr was 8 . 37 ± 8 . 46 ng . h / mL as determined in 15 of the 16 patients on Day 10 .
The terminal apparent half - life , determined in 15 of 16 patients , ranged from 7 to 51 hours , with a mean of 17 . 2 ± 10 . 2 hours .
Adapalene was rapidly cleared from plasma and was not detected 72 hours after the last application for all but one subject .
Exposure of potential circulating metabolites of adapalene was not measured .
Excretion of adapalene appears to be primarily by the biliary route .
In another clinical study in patients with moderate to moderately severe acne , DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % or Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % was applied to the face and optionally to the trunk , once daily for 12 weeks .
Seventy - eight ( 78 ) patients had plasma adapalene levels evaluated at Weeks 2 , 8 , and 12 .
Of the 209 plasma samples analyzed , adapalene concentrations were below the limit of detection ( LOD = 0 . 15 ng / mL ) of the method in all samples but three .
For the three samples , traces of adapalene below the limit of quantification ( LOQ = 0 . 25 ng / mL ) of the method were found .
One of these samples was taken at Week 12 from a male patient treated with DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % who treated the face and the trunk for eight weeks ( thereafter , only the face was treated ) .
The second and third samples were from the Week 2 and 12 visits of a female patient treated with Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % who treated only the face for 12 weeks .
In this study , the average daily usage of product was 1 g / day .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies with adapalene have been conducted in mice at topical doses of 0 . 4 , 1 . 3 , and 4 . 0 mg / kg / day , and in rats at oral doses of 0 . 15 , 0 . 5 , and 1 . 5 mg / kg / day .
These doses are up to 3 times ( mice ) and 2 times ( rats ) in terms of mg / m ² / day the potential exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , assumed to be 2 . 5 grams DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % .
In the oral study , increased incidence of benign and malignant pheochromocytomas in the adrenal medullas of male rats was observed .
No photocarcinogenicity studies were conducted .
Animal studies have shown an increased risk of skin neoplasms with the use of pharmacologically similar drugs ( e . g . , retinoids ) when exposed to UV irradiation in the laboratory or to sunlight .
Although the significance of these studies to human use is not clear , patients should be advised to avoid or minimize exposure to either sunlight or artificial UV irradiation sources .
Adapalene did not exhibit mutagenic or genotoxic effects in vitro ( Ames test , Chinese hamster ovary cell assay , mouse lymphoma TK assay ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus test ) .
Reproductive function and fertility studies were conducted in rats administered oral doses of adapalene in amounts up to 20 mg / kg / day ( up to 26 times the MRHD based on mg / m ² comparisons ) .
No effects of adapalene were found on the reproductive performance or fertility of the F0 males or females .
There were also no detectable effects on the growth , development and subsequent reproductive function of the F1 offspring .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of once daily use of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % for treatment of acne vulgaris were assessed in one 12 week , multi - center , controlled , clinical study , conducted in a total of 653 patients 12 to 52 years of age with acne vulgaris of mild to moderate severity .
All female patients of child - bearing potential enrolled in the study were required to have a negative urine pregnancy test at the beginning of the study and were required to practice a highly effective method of contraception during the study .
Female patients who were pregnant , nursing or planning to become pregnant were excluded from the study .
Patients enrolled in the study were Caucasian ( 72 % ) , Hispanic ( 12 % ) , African - American ( 10 % ) , Asian ( 3 % ) , and other ( 2 % ) .
An equal number of males ( 49 . 5 % ) and females ( 50 . 5 % ) enrolled .
Success was defined as " Clear " or " Almost Clear " in the Investigator ’ s Global Assessment ( IGA ) .
The success rate , mean reduction , and percent reduction in acne lesion counts from Baseline after 12 weeks of treatment are presented in the following table : Table 3 : Clinical study primary efficacy results at Week 12 DIFFERIN ( adapalene ) Gel , 0 . 3 % Adapalene Gel , 0 . 1 % Vehicle Gel N = 258 N = 261 N = 134 IGA Success Rate 53 ( 21 % ) 41 ( 16 % ) 12 ( 9 % ) Inflammatory Lesions Mean Baseline Count 27 . 7 28 . 1 27 . 2 Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 14 . 4 ( 51 . 6 % ) 13 . 9 ( 49 . 7 % ) 11 . 2 ( 40 . 7 % ) Non - inflammatory Lesions Mean Baseline Count 39 . 4 41 . 0 40 . 0 Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 16 . 3 ( 39 . 7 % ) 15 . 2 ( 35 . 2 % ) 10 . 3 ( 27 . 2 % ) Total Lesions Mean Baseline Count 67 . 1 69 . 1 67 . 2 Mean Absolute ( % ) Reduction 30 . 6 ( 45 . 3 % ) 29 . 0 ( 41 . 8 % ) 21 . 4 ( 33 . 7 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % is supplied in the following size .
45 g tube – NDC 54868 - 5958 - 0 Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Information for Patients Patients using DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % , should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used only as directed by the physician .
• Do not use more than the recommended amount and do not apply more than once daily as this will not produce faster results , but may increase irritation .
• Apply a thin film of DIFFERIN Gel , 0 . 3 % to the entire face and any other affected areas of the skin once daily in the evening , after washing gently with a non - medicated soap .
• Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , angles of the nose , and mucous membranes .
• Moisturizers may be used if necessary ; however , products containing alpha hydroxy or glycolic acids should be avoided .
• Exposure of the eye to this medication may result in reactions such as swelling , conjunctivitis , and eye irritation .
• This medication should not be applied to cuts , abrasions , eczematous , or sunburned skin .
• Wax depilation should not be performed on treated skin due to the potential for skin erosions .
• Minimize exposure to sunlight including sunlamps .
Recommend the use of sunscreen products and protective apparel ( e . g . , hat ) when exposure cannot be avoided .
• During the early weeks of therapy , an apparent exacerbation of acne may occur .
This may be due to the action of the medication on previously unseen lesions and should not be considered a reason to discontinue therapy .
• Contact the doctor if skin rash , pruritus , hives , chest pain , edema , and shortness of breath occurs , as these may be signs of allergy or hypersensitivity .
• It is for external use only .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , Texas 78215 USA GALDERMA is a registered trademark .
325089 - 0810 Manufactured by : G Production Inc .
Baie d ’ Urfe ´ , QC , H9X 3S4 Canada Made in Canada GALDERMA is a registered trademark .
P51238 - 1 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PACKAGE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] Differin ® 0 . 3 ( adapalene ) gel , 0 . 3 % GEL 0 . 3 % NDC 54868 - 5958 - 0 Rx Only NET WT .
45 g For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Usual dosage : apply a thin film once a day at nighttime to affected areas .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains : adapalene 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) in an aqueous gel consisting of carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 124 , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) with excursions permitted between 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
