Active Ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Zinc Oxide 9 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses : • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keeo out of the eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if arash occurs Kep out of reach of children if product is walloed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply : • After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • At least every 2 hours .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Butylene Glycol , Cyclopentasiloxane , Ethylhexyl Stearate , Ethylhexylglycerin , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 ) , Iron Oxides ( CI 77492 ) , Iron Oxides ( CI 77499 ) , Isopropyl Palmitate , Niacinamide , Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , Oleth - 3 Phosphate , PEG - 7 Trimethylolpropane Coconut Ether , Phenoxyethanol , Polyisobutene , Sodium Hyaluronate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Water Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
Distributed by Vibriance : 400 Wes Peachtree St NW STE 4 - 1042 ATLANTA , GA 30308 ( 800 ) 385 - 3245 Vibriance SHEER ZINC Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
