DESCRIPTION Glycopyrrolate tablets contain the synthetic anticholinergic , glycopyrrolate .
Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium compound with the following chemical name : 3 - [ ( cyclopentylhydroxyphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - 1 , 1 - dimethylpyrrolidinium bromide .
Its emprical formula is C19H8BrNO3 , its molecular weight is 398 . 33 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each 1 mg tablet contains : Glycopyrrolate , 1 mg Each 2 mg tablet contains : Glycopyrrolate , 2 mg Inactive ingredients : Dibasic Calcium Phosphate , Lactose Anhydrous , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , and Sodium Starch Glycolate CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Glycopyrrolate , like other anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , inhibits the action of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves and on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
These peripheral cholinergic receptors are present in the autonomic effector cells of smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , the sino - atrial node , the atrioventricular node , exocrine glands , and , to a limited degree , in the autonomic ganglia .
Thus , it diminishes the volume and free acidity of gastric secretions and controls excessive pharyngeal , tracheal , and bronchial secretions .
Glycopyrrolate antagonizes muscarinic symptoms ( e . g . , bronchorrhea , bronchospasm , bradycardia , and intestinal hypermotility ) induced by cholinergic drugs such as the anticholinesterases .
The highly polar quaternary ammonium group of glycopyrrolate limits its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide , which are non - polar tertiary amines which penetrate lipid barriers easily .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma ; obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus ; intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis ; toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis ; myasthenia gravis .
Glycopyrrolate tablets are contraindicated in those patients with a hypersensitivity to glycopyrrolate .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) can occur with use of glycopyrrolate .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Glycopyrrolate may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
In this event , the patient should be warned not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur , i . e . , neuro - muscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible paralysis .
Pregnancy : The safety of this drug during pregnancy has not been established .
The use of any drug during pregnancy requires that the potential benefits of the drug be weighed against possible hazards to mother and child .
Reproduction studies in rats revealed no teratogenic effects from glycopyrrolate ; however , the potent anticholinergic action of this agent resulted in diminished rates of conception and of survival at weaning , in a dose - related manner .
Other studies in dogs suggest that this may be due to diminished seminal secretion which is evident at high doses of glycopyrrolate .
Information on possible adverse effects in the pregnant female is limited to uncontrolled data derived from marketing experience .
Such experience has revealed no reports of teratogenic or other fetus - damaging potential .
No controlled studies to establish the safety of the drug in pregnancy have been performed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
As a general rule , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is on a drug since many drugs are excreted in human milk .
Pediatric Use Since there is no adequate experience in pediatric patients who have received this drug , safety and efficacy in pediatric patients have not been established .
PRECAUTIONS Use Glycopyrrolate with caution in the elderly and in all patients with : • Autonomic neuropathy .
• Hepatic or renal disease .
• Ulcerative colitis – large doses may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing aparalytic ileus and for this reason may precipitate or aggravate “ toxic megacolon , ” a serious complication of the disease .
• Hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac tachyarrhythmias , tachycardia , hypertension and prostatic hypertrophy .
• Hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis , since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate this condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anticholinergics produce certain effects , most of which are extensions of their fundamental pharmacological actions .
Adverse reactions to anticholinergics in general may include xerostomia ; decreased sweating ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitations ; dilatation of the pupil ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste ; headaches ; nervousness ; mental confusion ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations .
Glycopyrrolate is chemically a quaternary ammonium compound ; hence , its passage across lipid membranes , such as the blood - brain barrier , is limited in contrast to atropine sulfate and scopolamine hydrobromide .
For this reason the occurrence of CNS related side effects is lower , in comparison to their incidence following administration of anticholinergics which are chemically tertiary amines that can cross this barrier readily .
OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage of glycopyrrolate are peripheral in nature rather than central .
• To guard against further absorption of the drug – use gastric lavage , cathartics and / or enemas .
• To combat peripheral anticholinergic effects ( residual mydriasis , dry mouth , etc . ) – utilize a quaternary ammonium anticholinesterase , such as neostigmine methylsulfate .
• To combat hypotension – use pressor amines ( norepinephrine , metaraminol ) i . v . ; and supportive care .
• To combat respiratory depression – administer oxygen ; utilize a respiratory stimulant such as Dopram ® i . v . ; artificial respiration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of glycopyrrolate should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse reactions .
The presently recommended maximum daily dosage of glycopyrrolate is 8 mg .
Glycopyrrolate , 1 mg tablets : The recommended initial dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is one tablet three times daily ( in the morning , early afternoon , and at bedtime ) .
Some patients may require two tablets at bedtime to assure overnight control of symptoms .
For maintenance , a dosage of one tablet twice a day is frequently adequate .
Glycopyrrolate , 2 mg tablets : The recommended dosage of glycopyrrolate for adults is one tablet two or three times daily at equally spaced intervals .
Glycopyrrolate tablets are not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 12 years .
DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions .
HOW SUPPLIED Glycopyrrolate tablets 1 mg are bisected , compressed white , round tablets debossed “ EP ” above the bisect and “ 139 ” below the bisect on one side of the tablet , and plain on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 64125 - 139 - 01 ) Glycopyrrolate tablets 2 mg are bisected , compressed white , round tablets debossed “ EP ” above the bisect and “ 140 ” below the bisect on one side of the tablet , and plain on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 64125 - 140 - 01 ) .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Rx only • Dopram ® is a registered trademark of Baxter Healthcare Corporation .
Manufactured by : Excellium Pharmaceutical .
Inc .
Fairfield , NJ 07004 07 / 08 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 64125 - 139 - 01 1 mg : Bottle of 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 64125 - 140 - 01 2 mg : Bottle of 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
