For Intracavernous Use Only Sterile Powder and Diluent ( sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) in Cartridges Rx Only DESCRIPTION edex ® ( alprostadil for injection ) is a sterile , pyrogen - free powder containing alprostadil in an alfadex ( α - cyclodextrin ) inclusion complex .
Alprostadil is an endogenous substance known as prostaglandin E1 ( PGE1 ) .
edex ® is supplied in single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges .
edex ® is lyophilized in single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges intended for use with the reusable edex ® injection device .
One chamber of the cartridge contains alprostadil , alfadex and lactose as a sterile , pyrogen - free powder .
The other chamber contains 1 . 075 mL of sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
The edex ® cartridges are supplied in three strengths : 10 - mcg cartridge ( 10 . 75 mcg alprostadil , 347 . 55 mcg α - cyclodextrin , 51 . 06 mg lactose ) ; 20 - mcg cartridge ( 21 . 5 mcg alprostadil , 695 . 2 mcg α - cyclodextrin , 51 . 06 mg lactose ) ; 40 - mcg cartridge ( 43 mcg alprostadil , 1 , 390 . 3 mcg α - cyclodextrin , 51 . 06 mg lactose ) .
The edex ® injection device is used to reconstitute the sterile powder in one chamber with the sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride in the other chamber .
After reconstitution , the edex ® injection device is used to administer the intracavernous injection of alprostadil .
The chemical name for alprostadil is ( 1 R , 2 R , 3 R ) - 3 - Hydroxy - 2 - [ ( E ) - ( 3 S ) - 3 - hydroxy - 1 - octenyl ] - 5 - oxocyclopentane heptanoic acid .
The empirical formula is C20H34O5 and the molecular weight is 354 . 49 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The α - cyclodextrin inclusion complex improves the water solubility of alprostadil .
The empirical formula of α - cyclodextrin is C36H60O30 and the molecular weight is 972 . 85 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alprostadil alfadex is a white , odorless , hygroscopic powder .
It is freely soluble in water and practically insoluble in ethanol , ethyl acetate and ether .
After reconstitution , the active ingredient , alprostadil , immediately dissociates from the α - cyclodextrin inclusion complex .
The reconstituted solution is clear and colorless and has a pH between 4 . 0 and 8 . 0 .
When the single - dose , dual - chamber cartridge containing either 10 . 75 , 21 . 5 , or 43 mcg of alprostadil is placed into the edex ® injection device and reconstituted , the deliverable amount of alprostadil in each milliliter is 10 , 20 or 40 mcg , respectively .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Alprostadil ( PGE1 ) is one of the prostaglandins , a family of naturally occurring acidic lipids with various pharmacological effects .
Endogenous PGE1 is derived from dihomo - gamma - linolenic acid , a fatty acid found within the phospholipids of cellular membranes .
As an endogenous substance , PGE1 exerts its biological effects either directly or indirectly by regulating and modifying the synthesis and effects of other hormones and mediators .
Mode of Action Alprostadil is a smooth muscle relaxant .
Precontracted isolated preparations of the human corpus cavernosum , corpus spongiosum and cavernous artery are relaxed by alprostadil .
Alprostadil has been shown to bind to specific receptors in human penile tissue .
Two types of receptors that differ in their PGE1 binding affinity have been identified .
The binding of alprostadil to its receptors is accompanied by an increase in intracellular cAMP levels .
Human cavernous smooth muscle cells respond to alprostadil by releasing intracellular calcium into the surrounding medium .
Smooth muscle relaxation is associated with a reduction of the cytoplasmic free calcium concentration .
Alprostadil also attenuates presynaptic noradrenaline release in the corpus cavernosum which is essential for the maintenance of a flaccid and non - erect penis .
Alprostadil induces erection by relaxation of trabecular smooth muscle and by dilation of cavernous arteries .
This leads to expansion of lacunar spaces and entrapment of blood by compressing the venules against the tunica albuginea , a process referred to as the corporal veno - occlusive mechanism .
Pharmacokinetics Alpha - Cyclodextrin After reconstitution , PGE1 immediately dissociates from the α - cyclodextrin inclusion complex ; the in vivo disposition of both components occurs independently after administration .
After intravenous infusion of radiolabeled α - cyclodextrin to healthy volunteers , the radiolabeled components were rapidly eliminated within 24 - hours , urine accounting for 81 % to 83 % of radioactivity and feces for 0 . 1 % .
There was no evidence of significant accumulation of radiolabeled α - cyclodextrin in the body even after 7 days of repeated intravenous injection .
After intracavernous administration in monkeys , radiolabeled α - cyclodextrin was rapidly distributed from the injection site with less than 0 . 1 % of the dose remaining in the penis 1 hour after administration .
There was no evidence of tissue retention of radiolabeled α - cyclodextrin in monkeys .
Alprostadil Absorption After intracavernous injection of 20 mcg of edex ® in 24 patients with erectile dysfunction , mean systemic plasma concentrations of PGE1 increased from baseline of 0 . 8 ± 0 . 6 pg / mL to a peak ( Cmax ) of 16 . 8 ± 18 . 9 pg / mL ( corrected for baseline ) within 2 to 5 minutes and dropped to endogenous plasma levels within 2 hours ( Table 1 ) .
The absolute bioavailability of alprostadil estimated from systemic exposure was about 98 % as compared to the same dose given by a short - term intravenous infusion .
Distribution The volume of distribution for PGE1 was not estimated .
Approximately 93 % of PGE1 found in plasma is protein - bound .
Metabolism PGE1 is metabolized in the corpus cavernosum after intracavernous administration .
PGE1 entering the systemic circulation is rapidly and extensively metabolized in the lungs with a first - pass pulmonary elimination of 60 to 90 % of PGE1 .
Enzymatic oxidation of the C15 - hydroxy group followed by reduction of the C13 , 14 - double bond produces the primary metabolites , 15 - keto - PGE1 , 15 - keto - PGE0 , and PGE0 .
15 - keto - PGE1 has only been detected in vitro in homogenized lung preparations , whereas 15 - keto - PGE0 and PGE0 have been measured in plasma .
Unlike the 15 - keto metabolites which are less pharmacologically active than the parent compound , PGE0 is similar in potency to PGE1 in vitro using isolated animal organs .
After intracavernous injection of 20 mcg of edex ® to 24 patients with erectile dysfunction , mean systemic plasma 15 - keto - PGE0 levels increased within 7 minutes from endogenous levels of 12 . 9 ± 11 . 8 pg / mL to a Cmax of 421 ± 337 pg / mL ( corrected for baseline ) followed by a decrease to baseline levels in several hours .
Mean systemic plasma PGE0 levels increased within 20 minutes from endogenous levels of 0 . 6 ± 0 . 5 pg / mL to a Cmax of 3 . 9 ± 2 . 3 pg / mL ( corrected for baseline ) followed by a decrease to baseline levels in several hours .
Excretion After further degradation of PGE1 by beta and omega oxidation , the main metabolites are excreted primarily in urine ( 88 % ) and feces ( 12 % ) over 72 hours , and total excretion is essentially complete ( 92 % ) within 24 hours after administration .
No unchanged PGE1 has been found in the urine and there is no evidence of tissue retention of PGE1 and its metabolites .
After intracavernous injection of 20 mcg of edex ® in patients with erectile dysfunction , the terminal half - lives ( t ½ ) of 15 - keto - PGE0 and PGE0 were calculated to be 40 . 9 ± 16 . 5 minutes and 63 . 2 ± 31 . 1 minutes , respectively .
The terminal half - life of PGE1 in healthy volunteers was calculated to be around 9 to 11 minutes which is consistent with that reported in the literature ( 8 minutes ) .
Mean total body clearance of PGE1 in patients with erectile dysfunction was calculated to be around 115 L / min after an intravenous infusion of 20 mcg alprostadil .
The above value exceeded cardiac output indicating extensive and rapid elimination of PGE1 in the lungs and / or blood .
Special Populations Geriatric : The potential effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of alprostadil has not been formally evaluated .
Race : The potential influence of race on the pharmacokinetics of alprostadil has not been formally evaluated .
Hepatic Insufficiency In a study in symptomatic subjects with impaired hepatic function and age / weight / sex - matched healthy volunteers , 120 mcg of alprostadil was administered by intravenous infusion over 2 hours .
The mean Cmax value of PGE1 in hepatically impaired patients was 96 % higher than in healthy volunteers .
Mean Cmax values of both 15 - keto - PGE0 and PGE0 increased 65 % as compared to those in healthy volunteers .
The terminal half - lives of PGE1 , PGE0 , and 15 - keto - PGE0 and plasma albumin levels were similar in patients compared to healthy volunteers .
Due to the fact that PGE1 is primarily metabolized in the lung , the observed differences between hepatically impaired subjects and healthy volunteers were not anticipated ; the mechanism responsible for the observed discrepancies is not known .
Renal Impairment In a study in symptomatic subjects with end - stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis and age / weight / sex - matched healthy volunteers , 120 mcg of alprostadil was administered by intravenous infusion over 2 hours .
The mean Cmax value of PGE1 in renally impaired patients was 37 % lower as compared to that in healthy volunteers whereas mean Cmax values of 15 - keto - PGE0 and PGE0 in these patients increased 104 % and 145 % , respectively , as compared to those in healthy volunteers .
The terminal half - lives of PGE1 , PGE0 , and 15 - keto - PGE0 and plasma albumin levels were similar in these patients vs healthy volunteers .
The mechanism responsible for the observed discrepancies between renally impaired subjects and healthy volunteers is not known .
Pulmonary Disease The pulmonary extraction of alprostadil following intravascular administration was reduced by 15 % ( 66 ± 3 . 6 % vs 78 ± 2 . 3 % ) in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) compared with a group of patients with normal respiratory function who were undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass surgery .
Pulmonary clearance was found to vary as a function of cardiac output and pulmonary intrinsic clearance in a group of 14 patients with ARDS or at risk of developing ARDS following trauma or sepsis .
In this study , the pulmonary extraction efficiency of alprostadil ranged from subnormal ( 11 % ) to normal ( 90 % ) , with an overall mean of 67 % .
Drug - Drug Interactions In clinical trials , concomitant use of agents such as antihypertensive drugs , diuretics , antidiabetic agents ( including insulin ) , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs had no apparent effect on the efficacy or safety of edex ® .
Aspirin , Warfarin , Digoxin , Glyburide Several drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with alprostadil alone or in combination with aspirin , digoxin or warfarin in healthy volunteers and with glyburide in subjects with stable , non - insulin dependent diabetes mellitus .
The pharmacokinetic profiles of aspirin , warfarin , digoxin , and glyburide were not affected by concomitant administration of alprostadil .
There were no clinically important changes or trends in pharmacodynamic parameters for these drugs .
Heparin The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction between alprostadil intravenous infusion , 90 mcg over 3 hours , and heparin ( 5 , 000 IU ) was evaluated in 12 healthy volunteers .
Alprostadil had a significant effect on the pharmacodynamics of heparin resulting in a 140 % increase in partial thromboplastin time and a 120 % increase in thrombin time .
Therefore , caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of heparin and edex ® .
Table 1 Study No .
Participants Route and Dose Administration Drug / Metabolites Cmax [ 1 ] ( pg / mL ) Tmax ( min ) AUC [ 2 ] ( pg ∙ min / mL ) Total Clearance [ 3 ] ( L / min ) t1 / 2 [ 4 ] ( min ) PHAKI 848 Erectile Dysfunction Patients 20 mcg / 0 . 5 hr IV PGE1 7 . 09 ± 3 . 12 25 . 5 ± 4 . 8 174 ± 101 115 --- 15 - keto - PGE0 471 ± 88 30 . 0 ± 1 . 2 13705 ± 2559 --- 15 . 6 ± 5 . 6 PGE0 7 . 10 ± 2 . 19 32 . 2 ± 2 . 4 380 ± 115 --- 39 . 8 ± 26 . 3 20 mcg / IC PGE1 16 . 8 ± 18 . 9 4 . 8 ± 3 . 3 173 ± 115 --- --- 15 - keto - PGE0 421 ± 337 9 . 7 ± 7 . 7 10500 ± 4101 --- 40 . 9 ± 16 . 5 PGE0 3 . 9 ± 2 . 3 20 . 3 ± 12 . 6 252 ± 134 --- 63 . 2 ± 31 . 1 [ 1 ] Baseline - corrected data .
[ 2 ] AUC0 - 150 for intravenous ( IV ) infusion and AUC0 - 120 for intracavernous ( IC ) injection .
[ 3 ] Calculated as IV dose / AUC0 - 150 ( IV ) .
[ 4 ] Apparent terminal half - life .
Clinical Studies In two studies ( protocol numbers KU - 620 - 001 [ Study 1 ] and KU - 620 - 002 [ Study 2 ] ) , the safety and efficacy of edex ® were evaluated in 347 men with a diagnosis of erectile dysfunction due to vasculogenic , neurogenic and / or mixed etiology .
Each study consisted of three phases : an in - office dose - titration phase , a two - week double - blind cross - over phase at home , and an open - label at home treatment phase that lasted for 12 months ( Study 1 ) or six months ( Study 2 ) .
During the dose - titration phase , individualized optimum doses of edex ® were established .
Erectile response was measured by the Buckling Test to assess axial penile rigidity .
A positive Buckling Test was achieved if the erect penis was able to support an axial load of 1 . 0 kg without buckling of the penile shaft .
During the subsequent two - week double - blind , cross - over phase , patients self - injected edex ® or placebo at home .
Thereafter , patients continued to perform self - injections of open - label edex ® for six or 12 months , and the occurrence of an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse was documented following each injection .
Results Study 1 : One hundred fourteen men with a mean age of 53 years ( range 22 to 65 years ) were enrolled in the first phase .
The mean optimum dose was 13 . 8 mcg ( range 1 to 20 mcg ) .
Seventy - six percent ( 87 / 114 ) of patients had an erection with a positive penile Buckling Test .
Among the 71 % ( 81 / 114 ) of patients who entered the placebo - controlled phase , an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse was achieved in 74 % ( 60 / 81 ) of patients following edex ® injection compared to 7 % ( 6 / 81 ) of patients following placebo injection .
The mean duration of erection following edex ® was 56 . 9 minutes compared to 4 . 0 minutes following placebo .
Among the 65 % ( 74 / 114 ) of patients who entered the open - label treatment phase , the mean rate of response with an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse was 88 . 9 % through 12 months .
The average dose of edex ® remained essentially unchanged throughout the study duration .
Study 2 : Two hundred thirty - three men with a mean age of 59 . 8 years ( range 23 to 74 years ) were enrolled in the first phase .
The mean optimum dose was 25 . 9 mcg ( range 1 to 40 mcg ) .
Seventy - three percent ( 171 / 233 ) of patients had an erection with a positive penile Buckling Test .
Among the 60 % ( 141 / 233 ) of patients who entered the placebo - controlled phase , an erection sufficient for sexual intercourse was achieved in 73 % ( 103 / 141 ) of patients following edex ® injection compared to 13 % ( 18 / 141 ) of patients following placebo injection .
The mean duration of erection following edex ® was 59 . 0 minutes compared to 7 . 6 minutes following placebo .
Among the 60 % ( 139 / 233 ) of patients who entered the open - label treatment phase , the mean rate of response with an erection sufficient for intercourse was 85 . 3 % through six months .
The average dose of edex ® remained essentially unchanged throughout the study duration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE edex ® is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction due to neurogenic , vasculogenic , psychogenic , or mixed etiology .
CONTRAINDICATIONS edex ® should not be used : • in men who have conditions that predispose them to priapism , such as sickle cell anemia or sickle cell trait , multiple myeloma , or leukemia [ see WARNINGS ] .
• for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in men with fibrotic conditions of the penis , such as cavernosal fibrosis or Peyronie ’ s disease [ see PRECAUTIONS ] • in men with penile implants WARNINGS Prolonged erections greater than four hours in duration occurred in 4 % of all patients treated up to 24 months .
The incidence of priapism ( erections greater than 6 hours in duration ) was < 1 % with long - term use for up to 24 months .
In the majority of cases , spontaneous detumescence occurred .
Pharmacologic intervention and / or aspiration of blood from the corpora was necessary in 1 . 6 % of 311 patients with prolonged erections / priapism .
To minimize the chances of prolonged erection or priapism , edex ® should be titrated slowly to the lowest effective dose ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
The patient must be instructed to immediately report to his prescribing physician or , if unavailable , to seek immediate medical assistance for any erection that persists longer than six hours .
If priapism is not treated immediately , penile tissue damage and permanent loss of potency may result .
PRECAUTIONS General 1 ) Intracavernous injections of edex ® can lead to increased peripheral blood levels of PGE1 and its metabolites , especially in those patients with significant corpora cavernosa venous leakage .
Increased peripheral blood levels of PGE1 and its metabolites may lead to hypotension and / or dizziness .
2 ) Regular follow - up of patients , with careful examination of the penis at the start of therapy and at regular intervals ( e . g . 3 months ) , is strongly recommended to identify any penile changes .
The overall incidence of penile fibrosis , including Peyronie ' s disease , reported in clinical studies up to 24 months with edex ® was 7 . 8 % .
Treatment with edex ® should be discontinued in patients who develop penile angulation , cavernosal fibrosis , or Peyronie ' s disease .
Treatment can be resumed if the penile abnormality subsides .
3 ) The safety and efficacy of combinations of edex ® and other vasoactive agents have not been systematically studied .
Therefore , the use of such combinations is not recommended .
4 ) After injection of the edex ® solution , compression of the injection site for five minutes , or until bleeding stops , is necessary .
Patients on anticoagulants , such as warfarin or heparin , may have increased propensity for bleeding after intracavernous injection .
5 ) Underlying treatable medical causes of erectile dysfunction should be diagnosed and treated prior to initiation of therapy with edex ® .
6 ) edex ® uses a superfine ( 29 gauge ) needle .
As with all superfine needles , the possibility of needle breakage exists .
Careful instruction in proper patient handling and injection techniques may minimize the potential for needle breakage .
7 ) The patient should be instructed not to reuse or to share needles or cartridges .
As with all prescription medicines , the patient should not allow anyone else to use his medicine .
8 ) Cardiovascular Risk Related to Underlying Medical Conditions There is a potential for cardiac risk of sexual activity in patients with preexisting cardiovascular disease .
Therefore , treatments for erectile dysfunction , including edex ® , generally should not be used in men for whom sexual activity is inadvisable because of their underlying cardiovascular status .
In addition , the evaluation of erectile dysfunction should include a determination of potential underlying causes and the identification of appropriate treatment following a complete medical assessment .
Drug Interactions The pharmacodynamic interaction between heparin ( 5 , 000 units ) and alprostadil intravenous infusion ( 90 mcg over 3 hours ) was investigated .
The results indicate significant changes in partial thromboplastin time ( 140 % increase ) and thrombin time ( 120 % increase ) .
Therefore , caution should be exercised with concomitant administration of heparin and edex ® .
( Also , see Drug - Drug Interactions in CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics . )
Information for Patients To ensure safe and effective use of edex ® , the patient should be thoroughly instructed and trained in the self - injection technique before he begins intracavernous treatment with edex ® at home .
The desirable dose should be established in the physician ' s office .
The instructions for preparation of the edex ® solution should be carefully followed .
The reconstituted solution may initially appear cloudy due to small air bubbles .
Do not use the solution if it remains cloudy , contains precipitates , or is discolored .
The reconstituted solution should be gently mixed , not shaken .
A patient information pamphlet is included in each package of edex ® cartridges .
edex ® should be used immediately after reconstitution .
The patient should follow the instructions in the patient information pamphlet to limit the possibility of bacterial contamination .
The reconstituted cartridge is designed for one use only and should be discarded after use .
The edex ® cartridge contains a solid layer or Iyophilized cake of dry white powder approximately 3 / 8 " in thickness .
A normal cake may appear cracked or crumbled .
If the cartridge is damaged , the cake may shrink in size .
Do not use the cartridge if it appears damaged or the cake is substantially reduced in size .
If the dosage prescribed is less than 1 mL of edex ® solution , excess solution will be expelled through the needle as the plunger is pushed and the upper rim of the top stopper reaches the correct volume mark for the prescribed dose .
The needle must be properly discarded after use ; it must not be reused or shared with other persons .
The dose of edex ® that is established in the physician ' s office should not be changed by the patient without consulting the physician .
The patient may expect an erection to occur within 5 to 20 minutes .
A standard treatment goal is to produce an erection lasting no longer than 1 hour .
edex ® should be used no more than 3 times per week , with at least 24 hours between each use .
Patients should be aware of possible side effects of therapy with edex ® ; the most frequently occurring is penile pain during and / or after injection , usually mild to moderate in severity .
A potentially serious adverse reaction with intracavernous therapy is priapism .
Accordingly , the patient should be instructed to contact the physician ' s office immediately or , if unavailable , to seek immediate medical assistance if an erection persists for longer than 6 hours .
The patient should report any penile pain that was not present before or that increased in intensity , as well as the occurrence of nodules or hard tissue in the penis to his physician as soon as possible .
As with any injection , infection is possible .
Patients should be instructed to report to the physician any penile redness , swelling , tenderness or curvature of the erect penis .
The patient must visit the physician ' s office for regular checkups for assessment of the therapeutic benefit and safety of treatment with edex ® .
Note : Individuals who are sexually active should be counseled about the protective measures that are necessary to guard against the spread of sexually transmitted diseases , including the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) .
Use of intracavernous edex ® offers no protection from the transmission of sexually transmitted or blood - borne diseases .
The injection of edex ® can induce a small amount of bleeding at the site of injection .
In patients infected with blood - borne diseases , this could increase the risk of transmission of blood - borne diseases between partners .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted .
Alprostadil showed no evidence of mutagenicity in three in vitro assays including the AMES bacterial reverse mutation assay , a forward gene mutation assay in Chinese hamster lung ( V79 ) cells , and a chromosome aberration assay in human peripheral lymphocytes .
Alprostadil did not produce damage to chromosomes or the mitotic apparatus in the in vivo rat micronucleus test .
Alprostadil did not cause any adverse effects on fertility or general reproductive performance when administered intraperitoneally to male or female rats at dose levels from 2 to 200 mcg / kg / day .
The high dose of 200 mcg / kg / day is about 300 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) on a body weight basis .
The human dose of edex ® is < 1 mcg / kg ( MRHD is 40 mcg and the calculation assumes a 60 - kg subject ) .
Pregnancy , Nursing Mothers and Pediatric Use edex ® is not indicated for use in women or pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use Of the approximately 1 , 065 patients who entered the in - office dose - titration period in clinical studies , 25 % were 65 years or older .
In clinical studies , geriatric patients required , on average , higher minimally effective doses and had a higher rate of lack of effect ( optimum dose not determined ) .
Overall differences in safety were not observed between these geriatric patients and younger patients .
Geriatric patients should be dosed and titrated according to the same DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION recommendations as younger patients , and the lowest possible effective dose should always be used .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS edex ® , administered by intracavernous injection in doses ranging from 1 to 40 mcg per injection for periods up to 24 months , has been evaluated in clinical trials for safety in over 1 , 065 patients with erectile dysfunction .
Discontinuation of therapy due to a side effect in clinical trials was required in approximately 9 % of patients treated with edex ® and in < 1 % of patients treated with placebo .
Local Adverse Reactions The following local adverse reactions were reported in studies including 1 , 065 patients treated with edex ® for up to two years .
Penile Pain With use of up to 24 months , penile pain was reported at least once by 29 % of patients during injection , 35 % of patients during erection , and by 30 % of patients after erection .
On a per injection basis , 15 % of injections were associated with penile pain .
Penile pain was judged by patients to be mild in intensity for 80 % of painful injections , moderate in intensity for 16 % of painful injections , and severe in intensity for 4 % of painful injections .
The frequency of penile pain reports decreased over time ; 41 % of the patients experienced pain during the first 2 months and 3 % of the patients experienced pain during months 21 - 24 .
In placebo - controlled studies , penile pain was reported by 31 % of patients after edex ® and by 9 % of patients after placebo injection .
Prolonged Erection / Priapism Prolonged erections greater than four hours in duration occurred in 4 % of all patients treated up to 24 months .
In placebo - controlled studies , 3 % of patients treated with edex ® and < 1 % of patients treated with placebo reported prolonged erections greater than four hours .
The incidence of priapism ( erections greater than 6 hours in duration ) was < 1 % with long - term use for up to 24 months .
In the majority of cases , spontaneous detumescence occurred .
A higher incidence of prolonged erections was found in younger patients ( < 40 years ) , non - diabetic patients , and patients with psychogenic etiology of erectile dysfunction ( See WARNINGS ) .
Hematoma / Ecchymosis In patients treated with edex ® for up to 24 months , local bleeding , hematoma , and ecchymosis were observed in 15 % , 5 % , and 4 % of patients , respectively .
In placebo - controlled studies , the frequency of local bleeding was 6 % with injection of edex ® and 3 % with injection of placebo .
In most cases , these reactions were attributed to faulty injection technique .
Local Adverse Reactions Reported by ≥ 1 % of Patients All Study Periods [ 1 ] Local Reaction edex ® Local Reaction edex ® N = 1065 n ( % ) N = 1065 n ( % ) Penile pain during injection 305 ( 29 ) Ecchymosis 44 ( 4 ) Penile pain during erection 368 ( 35 ) Penile angulation 72 ( 7 ) Penile pain after erection 317 ( 30 ) Penile fibrosis 52 ( 5 ) Penile pain ( other ) [ 2 ] 116 ( 11 ) Cavernous body fibrosis 20 ( 2 ) Prolonged erection Peyronie ' s disease 11 ( 1 ) > 4 ≤ 6 Hours 44 ( 4 ) Faulty injection technique [ 3 ] 59 ( 6 ) > 6 Hours 6 ( < 1 ) Penis disorder 28 ( 3 ) Bleeding 158 ( 15 ) Erythema 17 ( 2 ) Hematoma 56 ( 5 ) [ 1 ] Protocol Numbers KU - 620 - 001 , KU - 620 - 002 , KU - 620 - 003 , F - 8653 .
[ 2 ] Penile pain reported without an association to injection site or erection , such as pain in penis and scrotum , pain in glans penis , and burning penile pain .
[ 3 ] Examples include injection into glans penis , urethra or subcutaneously .
Systemic Adverse Experiences The following systemic adverse experiences were reported in controlled and uncontrolled studies in ≥ 1 % of patients treated for up to 24 months with edex ® .
Systemic Adverse Experiences Reported by ≥ 1 % of Patients [ 1 ] BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex ® N = 1065 n ( % ) BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex ® N = 1065 n ( % ) BODY SYSTEM Adverse Experience edex ® N = 1065 n ( % ) RESPIRATORY CARDIOVASCULAR UROGENITAL Upper respiratory tract Hypertension 17 ( 2 ) Prostate disorder 15 ( 1 ) infection 58 ( 5 ) Myocardial infarction 13 ( 1 ) Testicular pain 13 ( 1 ) Sinusitis 14 ( 1 ) Abnormal ECG 12 ( 1 ) Inguinal hernia 11 ( 1 ) BODY AS A WHOLE Influenza - like symptoms 35 ( 3 ) METABOLIC / NURITIONAL DERMATOLOGIC Headache 20 ( 2 ) Hypertriglyceridemia 17 ( 2 ) Skin disorder 14 ( 1 ) Infection 18 ( 2 ) Hypercholesterolemia 12 ( 1 ) SPECIAL SENSES Pain 16 ( 2 ) Hyperglycemia 12 ( 1 ) Abnormal vision 11 ( 1 ) MUSCULOSKELETAL Back pain 23 ( 2 ) Leg pain 13 ( 1 ) [ 1 ] Protocol Numbers KU - 620 - 001 , KU - 620 - 002 , KU - 620 - 003 , F - 8653 .
Hemodynamic changes , manifested as increases or decreases in blood pressure and pulse rate , were observed during clinical studies but did not appear to be dose - dependent .
Four patients ( < 1 % ) reported clinical symptoms of hypotension such as dizziness or syncope .
edex ® had no clinically important effect on serum or urine laboratory tests .
Post - Marketing Adverse Experiences Needle breakage .
OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available in regard to edex ® overdose in humans .
Systemic reactions are uncommon with intracavernous injection of edex ® .
Hypotension occurred in less than 1 % of patients treated with edex ® .
A single dose rising tolerance study in healthy volunteers indicated that single intravenous doses of alprostadil from 1 to 120 mcg were well tolerated .
Beginning with a 40 mcg bolus intravenous dose , the frequency of drug - related systemic adverse events increased in a dose - dependent manner , characterized mainly by facial flushing .
The primary symptom of an edex ® overdose is a prolonged erection or priapism .
Because of the potential for tissue hypoxia and possible necrosis , it is strongly recommended to treat an erection lasting more than 6 hours .
The patient is strongly encouraged to go to the nearest emergency room if his personal physician is not available .
In the event of an overdose , supportive therapy according to the presence of other symptoms is recommended .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION edex ® in the Treatment of Erectile Dysfunction The dosage range of edex ® for the treatment of erectile dysfunction is 1 to 40 mcg .
The intracavernous injection should be given over a 5 to 10 second interval .
In a study with a dose range of 1 to 20 mcg of edex ® , the mean dose was 10 . 7 mcg at the end of the dose titration period .
In two studies with a dose range of 1 to 40 mcg of edex ® , the mean dose was 21 . 9 mcg at the end of the dose titration period .
Doses greater than 40 mcg have not been studied .
A ½ inch , 27 to 30 gauge needle is generally recommended for the intracavernous injection .
The patient is advised not to exceed the optimum edex ® dose which was determined in the doctor ' s office .
The lowest possible effective dose should always be used .
Initial Titration in Physician ' s Office Erectile Dysfunction of Vasculogenic , Psychogenic , or Mixed Etiology : Dosage titration should be initiated at 2 . 5 mcg of alprostadil .
If there is a partial response , the dose may be increased by 2 . 5 mcg to a dose of 5 mcg and then in increments of 5 to 10 mcg , depending upon erectile response , until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached .
If there is no response to the initial 2 . 5 - mcg dose , the second dose may be increased to 7 . 5 mcg , followed by increments of 5 to 10 mcg .
The patient must stay in the physician ' s office until complete detumescence occurs .
It there is no response , then the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour .
If there is a response , then there should be at least a 1 - day interval before the next dose is given .
Erectile Dysfunction of Pure Neurogenic Etiology ( Spinal Cord Injury ) : Dosage titration should be initiated at 1 . 25 mcg of alprostadil .
The dose may be increased by 1 . 25 mcg to a dose of 2 . 5 mcg , followed by an increment of 2 . 5 mcg to a dose of 5 mcg , and then in 5 - mcg increments until the dose that produces an erection suitable for intercourse and not exceeding a duration of 1 hour is reached .
The patient must stay in the physician ' s office until complete detumescence occurs .
If there is no response , then the next higher dose may be given within 1 hour .
If there is a response , then there should be at least a 1 - day interval before the next dose is given .
At - Home ( Maintenance Therapy ) Dosing Instructions The first injections of edex ® must be done at the physician ' s office by medically trained personnel .
Self - injection therapy by the patient can be started only after the patient is properly instructed and well trained in the self - injection technique .
The physician should instruct the patient to discard any needles which become bent during the self - injection procedure as these needles may break .
The physician should make a careful assessment of the patient ' s skills and competence with the self - injection procedure .
The intracavernous injection must be done under sterile conditions .
The site of injection is usually along the lateral aspect of the proximal third of the penis .
Visible veins should be avoided .
The side of the penis that is injected and the site of injection must be alternated .
The injection site must be cleansed with an alcohol swab before injection .
The dose of edex ® that is selected for self - injection treatment should provide the patient with an erection that is satisfactory for sexual intercourse and that is maintained for no longer than 1 hour .
If the duration of erection is longer than 1 hour , the dose of edex ® should be reduced .
The lowest effective dose should be used at home .
Self - injection therapy for use at home should be initiated at the dose that was determined in the physician ' s office .
Dose adjustment may be required and should be made only after consultation with the physician .
Careful and continuous follow - up of the patient while in the self - injection program must be exercised .
This is especially true for the initial self - injections , since adjustments in the dose of edex ® may be needed .
The recommended frequency of injection is no more than 3 times weekly , with at least 24 hours between each dose .
The reconstituted edex ® cartridge and needle are intended for single use only and should be discarded after use .
The user should be instructed in the proper disposal of the needles and cartridges .
While on self - injection treatment , it is recommended that the patient visit the prescribing physician ' s office every 3 months .
At that time , the efficacy and safety of the therapy should be assessed , and the dose of edex ® should be adjusted , if needed .
The patient is instructed to follow the enclosed patient information pamphlet .
Preparation of Solution The edex ® injection device is used to reconstitute the single - dose , dual - chamber cartridge .
The plunger is used to force the sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ( 1 . 075 mL ) in one chamber into the chamber containing alprostadil .
After reconstitution , the edex ® injection device is used to administer the intracavernous injection of alprostadil .
The reusable edex ® injection device is for use only with the cartridges and needles included in the edex ® Cartridge Packs .
Prepare the edex ® solution immediately before use .
Do not administer unless solution is clear .
Do not add any drugs or solutions to the edex ® solution .
Discard any unused solution remaining in the cartridge .
The reconstituted solution should not be stored .
The edex ® cartridge contains a solid layer or lyophilized cake of dry white powder approximately 3 / 8 " in thickness .
A normal cake may appear cracked or crumbled .
If the cartridge is damaged , the cake may shrink in size .
Do not use the cartridge if it appears damaged or the cake is substantially reduced in size .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The reconstituted solution may initially appear cloudy due to small air bubbles .
Do not use the solution if it remains cloudy , contains precipitates , or is discolored .
CAUTION : Do not reuse any solution remaining in the cartridge due to the possibility of bacterial contamination .
Administration edex ® is given as an intracavernous injection over a 5 - to 10 - second interval .
See patient information for edex ® .
Stability The single - dose , dual - chamber cartridge should be reconstituted only when it is certain that the patient is ready to administer the drug .
The reconstituted drug solution should be used immediately after reconstitution .
Any solution remaining in the cartridge should be discarded .
HOW SUPPLIED edex ® ( alprostadil for injection ) is available in single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges intended for use with the reusable edex ® injection device .
One chamber of the cartridge contains 10 . 75 , 21 . 5 , or 43 mcg of alprostadil as a white , sterile , lyophilized powder .
The other chamber contains 1 . 075 mL of sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
When the cartridge is placed into the edex ® injection device and reconstituted , the deliverable amount of alprostadil in each milliliter is 10 , 20 , or 40 mcg , respectively .
edex ® Cartridge 2 Pack contains one reusable edex ® injection device , two single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges , two ½ - inch , 29 - gauge ( 0 . 33 mm × 12 . 7 mm ) needles , and four alcohol swabs .
edex ® Cartridge 6 Pack contains one reusable edex ® injection device , six single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges , six ½ - inch , 29 - gauge ( 0 . 33 mm × 12 . 7 mm ) needles , and twelve alcohol swabs .
The edex ® cartridges are supplied in the following packages : edex ® Cartridge 2 Pack ( includes one injection device , two cartridges , two needles and four alcohol swabs ) 10 mcg 1 × 2 Pack NDC 52244 - 010 - 02 20 mcg 1 × 2 Pack NDC 52244 - 020 - 02 40 mcg 1 × 2 Pack NDC 52244 - 040 - 02 edex ® Cartridge 6 Pack ( includes one injection device , six cartridges , six needles and twelve alcohol swabs ) 10 mcg 1 × 6 Pack NDC 52244 - 010 - 06 20 mcg 1 × 6 Pack NDC 52244 - 020 - 06 40 mcg 1 × 6 Pack NDC 52244 - 040 - 06 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
For more information , call Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 800 - 462 - 3636 .
Distributed by : Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Malvern , PA 19355 Revised : July 2018 edex ® ( alprostadil for injection ) For Intracavernous Use Only Sterile Powder and Diluent ( sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) in Cartridges PATIENT INFORMATION FOR edex ® CARTRIDGES Please read carefully before using .
Rx Only Please read carefully before using .
edex ® can only be obtained with a prescription from your doctor .
You or your partner should be fully trained on the proper injection technique before using edex ® at home .
Be sure to use only the dose prescribed by your doctor .
This leaflet provides a summary of information about your medicine .
Please read this information carefully before you prepare the edex ® solution .
The reusable edex ® injection device is used to prepare and administer the edex ® solution .
A convenient carrying case is provided for the reusable edex ® injection device .
Carefully follow the instructions for administration which are described below .
For further information or advice , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Please keep this information in case you need to refer to it again .
Erectile Dysfunction : Causes and Treatments There are several causes of erectile dysfunction , commonly known as impotence .
These include impaired blood circulation in the penis , nerve damage , hormonal imbalances , excessive alcohol use , emotional problems , and certain medications that you may be taking for other conditions .
Smoking has an adverse effect on erectile function by accentuating the effects of other risk factors such as blood vessel disease or high blood pressure .
Erectile dysfunction is often due to more than one of these causes .
Treatment for erectile dysfunction includes penile injections , medical devices that produce an erection , surgical procedures ( e . g . penile bypass or implants ) , hormone treatment , psychological counseling , lifestyle changes , or a change in medication .
You should not stop taking any prescription medications , unless told to do so by your doctor .
Your doctor has prescribed edex ® , a penile injection , to treat your erectile dysfunction .
Use of edex ® edex ® is injected into a specific area of the penis ( see injection directions below ) and should produce an erection in 5 to 20 minutes .
The erection can be expected to last up to one hour .
You should not use edex ® more than 3 times a week .
Injections should be administered at least 24 hours apart .
Ideally , the injection should be administered just prior to foreplay .
If your partner experiences insufficient vaginal lubrication or painful vaginal sensations during intercourse , the use of a lubricant may be helpful .
Who should NOT use edex ® ?
Men who have conditions that might result in long - lasting erections should not use edex ® .
Some of these conditions include sickle cell anemia or trait , leukemia , and tumor of the bone marrow ( multiple myeloma ) .
If you have any of these conditions , consult your doctor .
Men with penile implants , severe penile curvature , or those who have been advised not to engage in sexual activity should not use edex ® .
edex ® should not be used by women or children .
What are the risks of using edex ® ?
Erections that last more than 6 hours can cause serious damage to the penile tissue and may result in permanent impotence .
Call the prescribing physician or , if unavailable , seek professional help immediately if you still have an erection 6 hours after injection .
Various treatment options for reversing a prolonged erection are available .
A common side effect of edex ® is mild to moderate pain during injection .
The erection may also be associated with a painful sensation .
If you experience severe pain , contact the prescribing physician .
Call your doctor if you notice any redness , lumps , swelling , tenderness or curvature of the erect penis .
A small amount of bleeding at the injection site may occur .
To prevent bruising , apply firm pressure to the injection site for 5 minutes .
Tell your doctor if you have a condition or are taking a medicine that interferes with blood clotting .
There is a possibility of needle breakage with use of edex ® .
To best avoid breaking the needle , you should pay careful attention to your doctor ' s instructions and try to handle the injection device properly .
If the needle breaks during injection and you are able to see and grasp the broken end , you should remove it and contact your doctor .
If you cannot see or cannot grasp the broken end , you should promptly contact your doctor .
NOTE : edex ® offers no protection from the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV ( the virus that causes AIDS ) .
Small amounts of bleeding at the injection site can increase the risk of transmission of blood - borne diseases between partners .
There is no approved injectable treatment using multiple medications .
In addition , there are no data on the efficacy and safety of these combinations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] edex ® Cartridge 2 Pack contains enough supplies for two injections .
The 2 Pack contains the following items : One reusable edex ® injection device One reusable carrying case Two single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges ( one per injection ) Two ½ - inch , 29 - gauge ( 0 . 33 mm x 12 . 7 mm ) sterile needles ( one per injection ) Four alcohol swabs ( two per injection ) Patient Information for edex ® Cartridges edex ® Cartridge 6 Pack contains enough supplies for six injections .
The 6 Pack contains the following items : One reusable edex ® injection device One reusable carrying case Six single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges ( one per injection ) Six ½ - inch , 29 - gauge ( 0 . 33 mm x 12 . 7 mm ) sterile needles ( one per injection ) Twelve alcohol swabs ( two per injection ) Patient Information for edex ® Cartridges Storage and Handling 1 .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; temperature variations between 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) are allowed .
As with any drug product , extremes in temperature should be avoided .
When traveling , do not store in checked luggage during air travel or leave in a closed automobile .
2 .
edex ® solution should be used immediately after reconstitution .
IMPORTANT : To maintain sterility and avoid contamination , follow these directions carefully .
Each needle and cartridge should be used only once .
Safely discard the supplies ( see the “ Discard Injection Supplies ” section of these instructions ) .
The edex ® cartridges contain a solid layer or cake of dry white powder approximately 3 / 8 ” in thickness .
A normal cake may appear cracked or crumbled .
If the cartridge is damaged , the cake may shrink in size .
Do not use the cartridge if it appears damaged or the cake is substantially reduced in size .
Self - Injection Procedure Before using edex ® , you should be properly trained by your doctor .
Mix edex ® just prior to injection .
Your dose has been customized for your individual needs .
Use only the dose prescribed by your doctor .
Have a clean area available to assemble the items necessary for your edex ® injection .
The reusable edex ® injection device is for use only with the single - dose , dual - chamber cartridges and needles included in the edex ® Cartridge 2 Pack or 6 Pack .
READ THE INSTRUCTIONS COMPLETELY BEFORE STARTING YOUR SELF - INJECTION PROCEDURE Prepare edex ® Solution 1 .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water and dry them with a clean towel .
2 .
Check to see if the seal on the base of the needle is intact .
Remove the seal from the base of the needle .
Do not touch the exposed needle ( Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Attach the needle to the tip of the edex ® injection device by turning clockwise until tight ( Figure C ) .
Note : Always attach the needle to the injection device before inserting the cartridge into the injection device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Turn the blue portion of the plunger counterclockwise to unscrew it from the injection device ( Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
Pick up the cartridge and wipe the tip of the cartridge with an alcohol swab .
Do not touch the tip of the cartridge after it has been cleansed with the alcohol swab ( Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
Insert the cartridge into the injection device with the tip facing toward the attached needle ( Figure F ) .
The ridge on the cartridge will need to fit into the groove on the injection device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
Attach the plunger to the injection device by turning the blue portion of the plunger clockwise until tight ( Figure G ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 .
Hold the injection device in an upright position with the needle pointing up .
9 .
To prepare the drug solution , slowly push the plunger until the two gray rubber stoppers touch ( Figure H ) .
Gently move the injection device in a back and forth motion until the drug has dissolved and the solution is clear .
The solution may initially appear cloudy due to small air bubbles .
Do not use the solution if it remains cloudy , is colored , or contains particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 .
While holding the injection device with the needle pointing up , carefully remove the external and internal protective caps from the needle by pulling them straight off ( Figure I ) .
Do not turn the protective caps counterclockwise as this will loosen the needle .
Do not discard the large external protective cap ; you will need to use it later .
Do not touch the exposed needle or allow the needle to touch anything .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 .
Gently tap the cartridge so that air bubbles float to the top of the solution ( Figure J ) .
Carefully push the plunger until a drop of solution appears at the end of the needle ( Figure K ) .
Note : The plunger pushes the rubber stoppers forward ; the rubber stoppers cannot be pulled back with the plunger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
Push the plunger until the upper rim of the top stopper reaches the correct volume mark for your prescribed dose .
Excess solution will be expelled through the needle .
13 .
Set the injection device down on a clean , level surface and do not allow the needle to touch anything .
Select Injection Site 14 .
Choose an injection site mid - shaft on one side of the penis .
Avoid visible blood vessels .
With each use of edex ® , alternate the side of the penis and vary the site of the injection ( Figure L ) .
If your penis is not circumcised , pull the foreskin back .
Grasping the head of the penis with your thumb and forefinger , stretch it lengthwise along your thigh so that you can clearly see the selected injection site .
Wipe the injection site with a new alcohol swab .
Do not discard this swab ; you will need to use it later .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inject edex ® 15 .
Pick up the injection device and reposition the penis as in Step 14 to keep it from moving during the injection .
16 .
Hold the injection device as shown in Figure M . Do not touch the plunger at this time .
Position the needle horizontally and gently insert the needle into the selected injection site until the needle is almost completely inserted into the penis ( Figure M ) .
Now place your thumb on the plunger and inject the solution slowly over a period of 5 to 10 seconds ( Figure N ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 .
If the solution does not inject easily , or if you immediately experience a burning pain at the injection site , reposition the needle by advancing it slightly or by partially withdrawing it until the solution can be injected easily and painlessly .
18 .
Withdraw needle from penis .
Immediately apply firm but gentle pressure with the alcohol swab to the injection site for five minutes to prevent bruising ( Figure O ) .
Continue to apply firm pressure until bleeding stops .
If bleeding continues or recurs after applying pressure , abstain from intercourse .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Discard Injection Supplies 19 .
Carefully place the large external protective cap on the needle .
Remove the needle from the injection device by turning counterclockwise .
20 .
Remove the cartridge from the injection device by turning the blue portion of the plunger counterclockwise .
21 .
Discard your needle in a special container for disposal of sharp medical supplies .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist where you can obtain these special containers .
Follow the directions on your disposal container for proper disposal procedures .
Do not reuse or share needles .
22 .
Clean the reusable injection device with warm water and a mild soap after each use .
Once the injection device is dry , place it in the carrying case .
As with all prescription medicines , do not allow anyone else to use your medication .
Proper injection technique and individual dose titration are essential for the safe use of this product .
Distributed by : Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Malvern , PA 19355 Revised : July 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 10 mcg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 10 mcg Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 20 mcg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 20 mcg Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 40 mcg Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 40 mcg Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
