INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate , Butylphthalimide , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Carbomer , Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate , Isodecyl Neopentanoate , Isopropylphthalimide , PEG - 8 , Phenoxyethanol , Polyethylene , Polysorbate 20 , Propanediol , Sorbitol , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate , Triethanolamine , Trisodium Ethylenediamine Disuccinate , Water Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octocrylene 10 % Homosalate 5 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time ine the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF valvue of 15 or higher and other sun protecion measures including : • limit tim ein the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call Toll free 1 - 855 - 950 - 2563 ALOE UP KIDS SPORT PERFORMANCE SUNSCREEN Broad spectrum SPF 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
