Drug Facts Active ingredient Purpose Methyl Salicylate 10 % … … … … … … … … … … ..
… … … … … … … … .
… .
… Topical analgesic Uses For the temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints , such as simple backache , lumbago , arthritis , neuralgia , strains , bruises , and sprains .
Warnings For external use only .
Use only as directed or as directed by a health care professional .
Read all warnings and directions before use .
Discontinue use at least one hour prior to bath , shower , or swimming ; do not use immediately after bath , shower , or swimming .
Do not use : • On wounds , cuts , damaged or infected skin • On eyes , mouth , genitals , or any other mucous membranes Keep out of reach of children .
Consult physician for children under 18 .
When using this product • • Avoid contact with the eyes • • You may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• • Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • • Do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • • Do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • allergic reaction occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days • • symptoms clear up and return within a few days • • redness , irritation , swelling , pain or other symptoms begin or increase Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : Apply 1 patch to the affected area of intact skin up to 3 times a day .
Do not leave patch on for more than 8 hours at a time .
- Clean and dry the affected area .
- Open pouch and remove one patch .
- Remove any protective film and apply directly to affected area of pain .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective envelope .
- Wash hands with soap and water after handling the patches .
- Reseal pouch containing unused patches after each use .
Do not store patch outside the sealed envelope .
- Fold used patches so that the adhesive side sticks to itself and safely discard used patches or pieces of cut patches where children and pets cannot get to them .
Children under 18 years : Ask a physician Other information • • May be applied under occlusive dressing .
• • Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Inactive ingredients Polysorbate 80 , Glycerin , Sodium Cellulose Glycolate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Vitamin E , EDTA Disodium Salt , Kaolin , Water , Methylparaben Methyl Salicylate 10 % Patch NDC : 50488 - 2010 - 1 10 Patches Manufactured for : Alexso , Inc Los Angeles , CA 90064 Relabeled by : Preferred Pharmaceuticals Inc .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Methyl Salicylate 10 % Patch Topical Analgesic NDC 68788 - 8064 10 Patches [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
