INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Butylphthalimide , Caramel , Dimethicone , Ethylhexylglycerin , Fragrance , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Isopropylphthalimide , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Oleate , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Water Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 0 % Octocrylene 2 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • do not spray directly on to face • spray on hands then apply to face • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time ine the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF valvue of 15 or higher and other sun protecion measures including : • limit tim ein the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun • May stain some frabics or surfaces Questions or Comments ?
Call Toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) Australian Gold INSTANT BRONZER Broad Spectrum SPF 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
