INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Cyclopentasiloxane , Water , Glycerin , Silica , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Polymethylsilsesquioxane , PEG - 10 Dimethicone , Hexyl Laurate , Polyglyceryl - 4 Isostearate , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Fragrance , Stearic Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Alumina , Caprylyl Glycol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Panthenol , Squalane , Disodium EDTA , Eucalyptus Globulus ( Eucalyptus ) Leaf Extract , Porphyra Umbilicalis Extract , Terminalia Ferdinandiana ( Kakadu Plum ) Fruit Extract Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Active Ingredients Titanium Oxide 4 % Zinc Oxide 4 % Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure and rub into skin • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time ine the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF valvue of 15 or higher and other sun protecion measures including : • limit tim ein the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call Toll free 1 - 855 - LIV - GOLD ( 548 - 4653 ) Australian Gold Botanical Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
