Rx Only DESCRIPTION Each mL contains : Indigotindisulfonate Sodium 8 mg , Water for Injection q . s . pH adjusted , when necessary , with Citric Acid and / or Sodium Citrate .
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Sufficient Indigo Carmine is contained in each 5 mL ampule to permit accurate withdrawal and administration of the full dose .
It gives a deep blue solution when dissolved in water .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Indigo Carmine is excreted largely by the kidneys , retaining its blue color during passage through the body .
Elimination of the dye begins soon after injection , appearing in the urine within 10 minutes in average cases .
The biological half - life is 4 to 5 minutes following intravenous injection .
Larger quantities are necessary when intramuscular injection is employed .
Appearance time and elimination are delayed following intramuscular injection .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Originally employed as a kidney function test , the chief application of Indigo Carmine at present is localizing ureteral orifices during cystoscopy and ureteral catheterization .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Indigo Carmine is contraindicated in patients who have previously experienced an adverse reaction following its use .
WARNINGS An occasional idiosyncratic drug reaction may occur .
A mild pressor effect may be encountered in some patients .
PRECAUTIONS Pregnancy Animal Reproduction studies have not been conducted with indigotindisulfonate sodium injection .
It is also not known whether indigotindisulfonate sodium injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Indigotindisulfonate sodium injection should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Indigo Carmine is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS See WARNINGS .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Indigo Carmine is not a controlled substance listed in any of the Drug Enforcement Administration Schedules .
Its use is not known to lead to dependence or abuse .
OVERDOSAGE There are no data available describing the signs , symptoms or laboratory findings accompanying overdosage .
No discernible symptoms of toxicity have been observed in mice with an intravenous dose of 200 mg / kg .
After intravenous administration the LD50 was established at 300 mg / kg in mice .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Indigo Carmine solution is injected either by the intravenous or intramuscular route , and its appearance at the ureteral orifices is watched with the cystoscope in place .
The intravenous method is preferred because a 5 mL injection is sufficient .
A lesser dosage in infants , children and underweight patients will prevent skin coloration .
Since precipitation of indigotindisulfonate sodium may occur , Indigo Carmine Solution must not be diluted prior to injection or injected with infusion assemblies which were used with other solutions .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
NOTE : Since Indigo Carmine is a dark blue solution , visual inspection for particulate matter prior to use may not be possible .
To ensure that the withdrawn solution contains no particulates , 5 micron filter straws / filter needles must be used when withdrawing contents of ampules1 .
The 5 micron nylon mesh filter is suitable for withdrawing the drug product , Indigo Carmine .
1 ASHP Guidelines on Compounding Sterile Preparations PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Indigo Carmine should be stored in the dark , away from direct light , preferably in the original package .
Store at 20º to 25º C ( 68º to 77º F ) ; excursions permitted to 15º to 30º C ( 59º to 86º F ) ( See USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4520 NDC : 50090 - 4520 - 0 5 mL in a AMPULE Indigo Carmine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
