ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Alcohol 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Aqua ( Hydrogen Ionized Water ) , Rosa Centifolia Flower Water , Butylene Glycol , Witch Hazel Extract , Lavender Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Basil Flower / Leaf Extract , Marshmallow Leaf / Root Extract , Heartleaf Houttuynia Extract , Chamomile Flower Extract , Rosemary Extract , Fennel Leaf Extract , Apple Water , Decyl Glucoside , Indian Lettuce Extract , Corydalis ochotensis Turcz Extract , Whitlow Grass Extract , Goosefoot Flower Extract , Sarcodon Aspratus Extract , Maka Root Extract , Pomegranate Extract , Fig Extract , Mulberry Extract , Ginkgo Extract , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Arginine , 1 , 2 - Hexandiol , Ethanol , Lactic Acid , Soy Isoflavones , Black Cohosh Extracts , Knotweed Root Extract , Kudzu Root Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Punica Granatum Extract , Red Clover Flower Extract , Thai Kudzu Root Extract , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Soapberry Extract , Human Oligopeptide - 1 , Ascorbic Acid , Pyridoxine HCl , Menthol , Damask Rose Oil PURPOSE Purpose : Antifungal WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Please discontinue use immediately in the event that you experience any of the following side effects from using this product , and consult a dermatologist as the symptoms may get worse with continued use .
( a ) Adverse skin reactions occur upon its application which may involve red spots , swelling , itchiness , and other skin irritation .
( b ) The applied part shows signs of any of the symptoms mentioned above after exposure to the direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not apply to wounds and the area affected by dermatitis , eczema , and other irritations .
3 .
Precautions for handling and storage ( a ) Always close the cap after each use .
( b ) Always keep the product out of the reach of infants .
( c ) Do not store the product in high and low temperatures .
It should also be kept out of direct sunlight .
4 .
Vulvar Cleanser ( a ) It should only be used on the vulva .
( b ) It should not be used for long periods of time .
( c ) It should be used with extreme caution when there are affected areas on the ( vulvar ) skin or the surrounding area has become contaminated .
( d ) It should not be used on children under 3 years of age .
( e ) It is not recommended for use during pregnancy and it is advised that you discontinue its use on the vulva until you deliver a baby as it may get into the eyes of the newborn baby .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN : Keep this product out of reach of infants and young children .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications & usage : Wet your vulva thoroughly with running water ( preferably mild in temperature ) .
Apply a suitable amount ( 2 - 3 g ) evenly to the region and massage gently .
Rinse thoroughly in clean , lukewarm water .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : 2 - 3 g per use PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
