Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 10 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 75 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreses the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove ..
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs Keep ot of reach of children if product is swallowed get medical help or contact poison control center ight away Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • inmediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures , including : • limit time in the sun , specially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats & sunglasses .
• children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Acrylates / C12 - 22 Alkyl Methacrylate Copolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Butylphthalimide , Carbomer , Daucus Carota Sativa ( Carrot ) Seed Oil , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexylglycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Isopropylphthalimide , Lecithin , Persea Gratissima ( Avocado ) Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Propylene Glycol , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Oleate , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate , Water Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Black Girl Sunscreen Oxybenzone and Paraben Free Broad spectrum SPF 30 Moisturizing Sunscreen lotion Ultra Sheer Fragrance Free [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
