DESCRIPTION Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) of Clemastine Fumarate Syrup for oral administration contains clemastine 0 . 5 mg ( present as clemastine fumarate 0 . 67 mg ) .
Other ingredients : alcohol 5 . 5 % , flavor , fumaric acid , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , sorbitol in a buffered solution .
Clemastine fumarate belongs to the benzhydryl ether group of antihistaminic compounds .
The chemical name is ( + ) - ( 2 R ) - 2 - [ 2 - [ [ ( R ) - p - Chloro - α - methyl - α - phenylbenzyl ] - oxy ] ethyl ] - 1 - methylpyrrolidine fumarate and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C21H26CINO . C4H4O4 M . W . 459 . 97 CAS Registration Number 145976 - 57 - 9 Clemastine fumarate occurs as a colorless to faintly yellow , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
Clemastine Fumarate Syrup has an approximate pH of 6 . 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clemastine fumarate is an antihistamine with anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative side effects .
Antihistamines competitively antagonize various physiological effects of histamine including increased capillary permeability and dilatation , the formation of edema , the " flare " and " itch " response , and gastrointestinal and respiratory smooth muscle constriction .
Within the vascular tree , H1 - receptor antagonists inhibit both the vasoconstrictor and vasodilator effects of histamine .
Depending on the dose , H1 - receptor antagonists can produce CNS stimulation or depression .
Most antihistamines exhibit central and / or peripheral anticholinergic activity .
Antihistamines act by competitively blocking H1 - receptor sites .
Antihistamines do not pharmacologically antagonize or chemically inactivate histamine , nor do they prevent the release of histamine .
PHARMACOKINETICS Antihistamines are well - absorbed following oral administration .
Chlorpheniramine maleate , clemastine fumarate , and diphenhydramine hydrochloride achieve peak blood levels within 2 - 5 hours following oral administration .
The absorption of antihistamines is often partially delayed by the use of controlled release dosage forms .
In these instances , plasma concentrations from identical doses of the immediate and controlled release dosage forms will not be similar .
Tissue distribution of the antihistamines in humans has not been established .
Antihistamines appear to be metabolized in the liver chiefly via mono - and didemethylation and glucuronide conjugation .
Antihistamine metabolites and small amounts of unchanged drug are excreted in the urine .
Small amounts of the drugs may also be excreted in breast milk .
In normal human subjects who received histamine injections over a 24 - hour period , the antihistaminic activity of clemastine fumarate reached a peak at 5 - 7 hours , persisted for 10 - 12 hours and , in some cases , for as long as 24 hours .
Pharmacokinetic studies in man utilizing 3 H and 14 C labeled compound demonstrates that : clemastine fumarate is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , peak plasma concentrations are attained in 2 - 4 hours , and urinary excretion is the major mode of elimination .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clemastine Fumarate Syrup is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis such as sneezing , rhinorrhea , pruritus and lacrimation .
Clemastine Fumarate Syrup is indicated for use in pediatric populations ( age 6 years through 12 ) and adults ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
It should be noted that clemastine fumarate is indicated for the relief of mild uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema at the 2 mg dosage level only .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Antihistamines are contraindicated in patients hypersensitive to the drug or to other antihistamines of similar chemical structure ( see PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Antihistamines should not be used in newborn or premature Infants .
Because of the higher risk of antihistamines for infants generally and for newborns and prematures in particular , antihistamine therapy is contraindicated in nursing mothers ( See PRECAUTIONS - Nursing Mothers ) .
WARNINGS Antihistamines should be used with considerable caution in patients with : narrow angle glaucoma , stenosing peptic ulcer , pyloroduodenal obstruction , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , and bladder neck obstruction .
Use with CNS Depressants : Clemastine fumarate has additive effects with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) Use in Activities Requiring Mental Alertness : Patients should be warned about engaging in activities requiring mental alertness such as driving a car or operating appliances , machinery , etc .
Use in the Elderly ( approximately 60 years or older ) : Antihistamines are more likely to cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
PRECAUTIONS General : Clemastine fumarate should be used with caution in patients with : history of bronchial asthma , increased intraocular pressure , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , and hypertension .
Information for Patients : • Patients taking antihistamines should receive the following information and instructions : Antihistamines are prescribed to reduce allergic symptoms .
• Patients should be questioned regarding a history of glaucoma , peptic ulcer , urinary retention , or pregnancy before starting antihistamine therapy .
• Patients should be told not to take alcohol , sleeping pills , sedatives , or tranquilizers while taking antihistamines .
• Antihistamines may cause drowsiness , dizziness , dry mouth , blurred vision , weakness , nausea , headache , or nervousness in some patients .
• Patients should avoid driving a car or working with hazardous machinery until they assess the effects of this medicine .
• Patients should be told to store this medicine in a tightly closed container in a dry , cool place away from heat or direct sunlight and out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions Additive CNS depression may occur when antihistamines are administered concomitantly with other CNS depressants including barbiturates , tranquilizers , and alcohol .
Patients receiving antihistamines should be advised against the concurrent use of other CNS depressant drugs .
Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors prolong and intensify the anticholinergic effects of antihistamines .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis : In a 2 - year oral study in the rat at a dose of 84 mg / kg ( about 500 times the adult human dose ) and an 85 - week oral study in the mouse at 206 mg / kg ( about 1300 times the adult human dose ) , clemastine fumarate showed no evidence of carcinogenesis .
No mutagenic studies have been conducted with clemastine fumarate .
Impairment of Fertility : Oral doses of clemastine fumarate in the rat produced a decrease in mating ability of the male at 312 times the adult human dose .
This effect was not found at 156 times the adult human dose .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Oral reproduction studies performed with clemastine fumarate in rats and rabbits at doses up to 312 and 188 times the adult human doses respectively , have revealed no evidence of teratogenic effects .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Clemastine Fumarate Syrup in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used in pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Although quantitative determination of antihistaminic drugs in breast milk have not been reported , qualitative tests have documented the excretion of diphenhydramine , pyrilamine , and tripelennamine in human milk .
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from antihistamines , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of Clemastine Fumarate Syrup has been confirmed in the pediatric population ( age 6 years through 12 ) .
Safety and dose tolerance studies have confirmed children 6 through 11 years tolerated dosage ranges of 0 . 75 to 2 . 25 mg clemastine .
In infants and children particularly , antihistamines in overdosage may produce hallucinations , convulsions , and death .
Symptoms of antihistamine toxicity in children may include fixed dilated pupils , flushed face , dry mouth , fever , excitation , hallucinations , ataxia , incoordination , athetosis , tonic - clonic convulsions , and postictal depression ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions are underlined : Nervous System : Sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions .
Gastrointestinal System : Epigastric distress , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Respiratory System : Thickening of bronchial secretions , tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
Cardiovascular System : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
Hematologic System : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Genitourinary System : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
General : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose and throat .
OVERDOSAGE Antihistamine overdosage reactions may vary from central nervous system depression to stimulation .
In children , stimulation predominates initially in a syndrome which may include excitement , hallucinations , ataxia , incoordination , muscle twitching , athetosis , hyperthermia , cyanosis convulsions , tremors , and hyperreflexia followed by postictal depression and cardio respiratory arrest .
Convulsions in children may be preceded by mild depression .
Dry mouth , fixed dilated pupils , flushing of the face , and fever are common .
In adults , CNS depression , ranging from drowsiness to coma , is more common .
The convulsant dose of antihistamines lies near the lethal dose .
Convulsions indicate a poor prognosis .
In both children and adults , coma and cardiovascular collapse may occur . Deaths are reported especially in infants and children .
There is no specific therapy for acute overdosage with antihistamines .
The latent period from ingestion to appearance of toxic effects is characteristically short ( 1 / 2 - 2 hours ) .
General symptomatic and supportive measures should be instituted promptly and maintained for as long as necessary .
Since overdoses of other classes of drugs ( i . e . , tricyclic antidepressants ) may also present anticholinergic symptomatology , appropriate toxicological analysis should be performed as soon as possible to identify the causative agent .
In the conscious patient , vomiting should be induced even though it may have occurred spontaneously .
If vomiting cannot be induced , gastric lavage is indicated .
Adequate precautions must be taken to protect against aspiration , especially in infants and children .
Charcoal slurry or other suitable agents should be instilled into the stomach after vomiting or lavage .
Saline cathartics or milk of magnesia may be of additional benefit .
In the unconscious patient , the airway should be secured with a cuffed endotracheal tube before attempting to evacuate the gastric contents .
Intensive supportive and nursing care is indicated , as for any comatose patient .
If breathing is significantly impaired , maintenance of an adequate airway and mechanical support of respiration is the most effective means of providing adequate oxygenation .
Hypotension is an early sign of impending cardiovascular collapse and should be treated vigorously .
Although general supportive measures are important , specific treatment with intravenous infusion of a vasopressor titrated to maintain adequate blood pressure may be necessary .
Do not use with CNS stimulants .
Convulsions should be controlled by careful administration of diazepam or a short - acting barbiturate , repeated as necessary .
Physostigmine may also be considered for use in controlling centrally mediated convulsions .
Ice packs and cooling sponge baths , not alcohol , can aid in reducing the fever commonly seen in children .
A more detailed review of antihistamine toxicology and overdose management is available in Gosselin , R . E . , et al . , " Clinical Toxicology of Commercial Products . "
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION DOSAGE SHOULD BE INDIVIDUALIZED ACCORDING TO THE NEEDS AND RESPONSE OF THE PATIENT .
Pediatric : Children aged 6 to 12 years : For Symptoms Of Allergic Rhinitis - The starting dose is 1 teaspoonful ( 0 . 5 mg clemastine ) twice daily .
Since single doses of up to 2 . 25 mg clemastine were well tolerated by this age group , dosage may be increased as required , but not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls daily ( 3 mg clemastine ) .
For Urticaria and Angioedema - The starting dose is 2 teaspoonfuls ( 1 mg clemastine ) twice daily , not to exceed 6 teaspoonfuls daily ( 3 mg clemastine ) .
Adults and Children 12 years and Over : For Symptoms Of Allergic Rhinitis - The starting dose is 2 teaspoonfuls ( 1 . 0 mg clemastine ) twice daily .
Dosage may be increased as required , but not to exceed 12 teaspoonfuls daily ( 6 mg clemastine ) .
For Urticaria and Angioedema - The starting dose is 4 teaspoonfuls ( 2 mg clemastine ) twice daily , not to exceed 12 teaspoonfuls daily ( 6 mg clemastine ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Clemastine Fumarate Syrup : clemastine 0 . 5 mg / 5 mL ( present as clemastine fumarate 0 . 67 mg / 5 mL ) .
A clear , colorless liquid with a citrus flavor ( Passion Fruit ) , in 120 mL bottle .
120 mL bottle ( NDC 73308 - 358 - 12 ) Store at controlled room temperature , between 20 ° and 25 ° C ( 68 ° and 77 ° F ) ( see USP ) .
Manufactured For : Ayurax , LLC Fairhope , AL 36532 Distributed By : Solubiomix , LLC Madisonville , LA 70447 Rev . 09 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL DISPLAY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
