Carton Active Ingredients Section Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Uses Uses - helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Directions Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure reapply at least every 2 hours use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Storage Other information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Avoid contact with fabrics Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat , Dimethicone , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Cetearyl glucoside , Butyrospermum parkii ( Shea ) butter , Ammonium acryloydimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Butylene glycol , Dimethiconol , Propylene glycol , Xanthan gum , Tocopheryl acetate , Ascorbyl glucoside , Ethylparaben , Retinyl palmitate , Hydrolyzed rice protein , Tetrasodium EDTA , T - butyl alcohol , Panax ginseng root extract , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Medicago sativa ( Alfalfa ) extract , Carbomer , Potassium hydroxide , Polysorbate 20 , Morus alba leaf extract , Silica , Isopropyl myristate , Sodium benzoate , Tocopherol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Palmitoyl tripeptide - 1 , Palmitoyl tetrapeptide - 7 Description Protects and boosts young skin ' s natural defences to help it look younger for longer .
This super light and non - pore blocking day cream is especially designed for young skin .
Unique Double Defence technology protects skin and boosts natural defences to help it look younger for longer .
The protective power of Broad Spectrum SPF30 gives skin advanced protection from the sun and environmental stress .
Lipopeptides and Vitamin A help reduce the appearance of first fine lines .
Use every morning after cleansing , massage in small upward circles over face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area .
Made in the UK The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA Dist .
by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Norwalk CT 06851 USA www . boots . com carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
