Active ingredient : Salicylic Acid 1 . 5 % w / v Purpose : Acne Treatment Use for the treatment of acne .
Warnings : For external use only Do not use If you have a known allergy to Salicylic Acid or aspirin .
Using other topical acne medications at the same time or right after use of this product may increase drynes or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep away from lips and mouth .
If you have aspirin sensitivity , consult a physician prior to use .
Stop use and ask a doctor if excessive irritation occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use AM and PM .
Recommended : after AM use , follow with AcneFree All - Day Acne Control .
After PM use , follow with AcneFree 3 - in - 1 Acne Night Repair .
• Moisten skin .
• Shake can before use .
• Press down firmly on dispenser and apply a small amount of foam ( not more than a dollop the size of golf ball ) into hand .
• Using fingers , apply to face and gently massage to cleanse .
• Rinse thoroughly with warm water and pat dry .
• If bothersome peeling occurs , reduce application use .
• If going outside , use a sunscreen .
Other information • Store at 60 o - 85 o F ( 15 o - 30 o C ) .
• Pressurized container : Protect from sunlight and do not expose to temperatures exceeding 120 oF ( 49 o C ) .
Do not puncture or burn , even after use .
Use only as directed .
Inactive ingredients : Avena Sativa ( Oat ) Kernel Extract , Bisabolol , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium Laureth Sulfosuccinate , Glycerin , Methylisothiazolinone , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium C14 - 16 Olefin Sulfonate , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Water / Aqua / Eau , Zinc PCA , Zingiber Officinale ( Ginger ) Root Extact .
AcneFree Sensitive Gentle Formula Acne Pore Cleanser Salicylic Acid 1 . 5 % Rinse - Off Foam Medicine Stays In Pores Even After Rinsing [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
