SODIUM SULFACETAMIDE 8 % AND SULFUR 4 % TOPICAL SUSPENSION In a vehicle containing Green Tea and Aloe Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
DESCRIPTION : Each mL contains 80 mg of sodium sulfacetamide and 40 mg of colloidal sulfur in a vehicle consisting of : aloe vera gel , benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , fragrance , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , green tea extract , magnesium aluminum silicate , PEG - 150 distearate , phenoxyethanol , polyethylene glycol 400 , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium thiosulfate , stearyl alcohol , and xanthan gum .
Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Sodium sulfacetamide is C 8 H 9 N 2 NaO 3 S · H 2 O with molecular weight of 254 . 24 .
Chemically , sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium sulfacetamide is an odorless , white , crystalline powder with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , while practically insoluble in benzene , in chloroform and in ether .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Sodium sulfacetamide exerts a bacteriostatic effect against sulfonamide sensitive Gram - positive and Gram - negative microorganisms commonly isolated from secondary cutaneous pyogenic infections .
It acts by restricting the synthesis of folic acid required by bacteria for growth , by its competition with para - aminobenzoic acid .
There is no clinical data available on the degree and rate of systemic absorption of this product when applied to the skin or scalp .
However , significant absorption of sodium sulfacetamide through the skin has been reported .
The following in vitro data is available but the clinical significance is unknown .
Organisms that show susceptibility to sodium sulfacetamide are : Streptococci , Staphylococci , E . coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Pseudomonas pyocyanea , Salmonella species , Proteus vulgaris , Nocardia and Actinomyces .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS : This product is indicated for use in the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
This product is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS : Sulfonamides are known to cause Stevens - Johnson syndrome in hypersensitive individuals .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome also has been reported following the use of sodium sulfacetamide topically .
Cases of drug - induced systemic lupus erythematosus from topical sulfacetamide also have been reported .
In one of these cases , there was a fatal outcome .
KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
PRECAUTIONS : FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
General : Nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi , may proliferate with the use of this preparation .
Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
If the use of this product produces signs of hypersensitivity or other untoward reactions , discontinue use of the preparation .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
Systemic absorption of topical sulfonamides is greater following application to large , infected , abraded , denuded or severely burned areas .
Under these circumstances , any of the adverse effects produced by the systemic administration of these agents could potentially occur , and appropriate observations and laboratory determinations should be performed .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients : Patients should discontinue the use of this product if the condition becomes worse or if a rash develops in the area being treated or elsewhere .
The use of this product also should be discontinued promptly and the physician notified if any arthritis , fever or sores in the mouth develop .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Drug Interactions : This product is incompatible with silver preparations .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
Studies on reproduction and fertility also have not been performed .
Chromosomal nondisjunction has been reported in the yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , following application of sodium sulfacetamide .
The significance of this finding to the topical use of sodium sulfacetamide in the human is unknown .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Reports of irritation and hypersensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide are uncommon .
The following adverse reactions , reported after administration of sterile ophthalmic sodium sulfacetamide , are noteworthy : instances of Stevens - Johnson syndrome and instances of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus ; in one case a fatal outcome was reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
OVERDOSAGE : The oral LD 50 of sulfacetamide in mice is 16 . 5 g / kg .
In the event of overdosage , emergency treatment should be started immediately .
Manifestations : Overdosage may cause nausea and vomiting .
Large oral overdosage may cause hematuria , crystalluria and renal shutdown due to the precipitation of sulfa crystals in the renal tubules and the urinary tract .
For treatment , contact your local Poison Control Center or your doctor .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply this product once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off sooner or using less often .
STORAGE : Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
NOTICE : Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
The product may tend to darken slightly on storage .
Slight discoloration does not impair the efficacy or safety of the product .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Occasionally , a slight discoloration of fabric may occur when an excessive amount of the product is used and comes in contact with white fabrics .
This discoloration , however , presents no problem , as it is readily removed by ordinary laundering without bleaches .
HOW SUPPLIED : 16 fl .
oz .
( 473 mL ) bottles , NDC 52187 - 531 - 16 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 855 - 899 - 4237 .
Manufactured for : KMM Pharmaceuticals , LLC 1000 N . West Street Suite 1200 , # 1021 Wilmington , DE 19801 2000141 [ 00 ] v1 Rev . 05 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
