Active Ingredient Ethyl Alchol v / v - 70 % Purposes Antimicrobial Uses Hand sanitizer to derease virus and bacteria on the skin that could cause disease .
For when water and soap are not available Recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only : hands Flammable , keep away from fire or flame When using this product keep out eyes , ears and mouth .
Do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thorougly with water Avoid contact with broken skin Do not inhale or ingest When using this product Keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
Do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact eyes , flush thorougly with water Avoid contact with broken skin Do not inhale or ingest Stop use and ask a doctor if Irritation and redness develop Conditions persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a posion control center right away Directions - Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry without wiping - For Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using hando3 - Not recommended for infants Other information Sotre below 105 F ( 40 C ) May discolor certain fabrics Harmful to wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients Purified water ( Aqua ) , vegetable glycerin and carboxymethul cellulose for the 1 , 000 lt label Firefighting CAUTION : all these products have a very low flash point : use water spray when fighting fire may be inefficient : CAUTION : Alcohol - resistant foam should be used . SMALL FIRE : Dry Chemicals , co2 , water spray or alcohol - resistant foam .
LARGE FIRE : Water spray , fog or alcohol resistant foam .
Do not use straight streams .
Move containers from fire area if you can do it without risk .
FIRE INVOLVING TANKS OR CAR / TRAILERS LOADS : Fight fire for maximun distance or use unmanned hose holders or monito nozzles : Cool containers with flooding quiantities of water until well after fire is out .
Withdraw immediatly in case of rising sounf from venting safety devices or discoloration of thank .
ALWAYS stay away from tanks engulfed in fire .
For massive fire , use unmaned hose holders or monitor nozzles ; if this is imposible .
Withdraw from area and let the fire burn .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] hando3 hand sanitizer gel antiviral & antibacterial ozonized gel leaves hands soft contains moisturizers paraben free phthalate free formaldehyde donor free 33 . 8 fl oz ( 1 liter ) 264 . 17 Gallons ( 1000 liters ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
