DESCRIPTION Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets USP is an opioid analgesic .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg or 30 mg of oxycodone hydrochloride USP .
Oxycodone hydrochloride is a white , odorless crystalline powder derived from the opium alkaloid , thebaine .
Oxycodone hydrochloride dissolves in water ( 1 g in 6 to 7 mL ) and is considered slightly soluble in alcohol ( octanol water partition coefficient is 0 . 7 ) .
Chemically , oxycodone hydrochloride is 4 , 5α - epoxy - 14 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : corn starch ; lactose monohydrate ; microcrystalline cellulose , silicon dioxide , sodium starch glycolate ; and stearic acid .
T . he 10 mg tablet also contains D & C Red No . 27 aluminum lake .
The 15 mg tablet also contains D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake .
The20 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake ; FD & C Red No . 40 aluminum lake ; and FD & C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake .
The 30 mg tablet also contains FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lakeBlue No . 2 ( 15 mg and 30 mg tablets ) .
The 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , and 30 mg tablets contain the equivalent of 4 . 5 mg , 9 mg , 13 . 5 mg , 18 mg , and 27 mg , respectively , of oxycodone free base .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacology The analgesic ingredient , oxycodone , is a semi - synthetic narcotic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of morphine ; the most prominent of these involves the central nervous system and organs composed of smooth muscle .
Oxycodone , as the hydrochloride salt , is a pure agonist opioid whose principal therapeutic action is analgesia and has been in clinical use since 1917 .
Like all pure opioid agonists , there is no ceiling effect to analgesia , such as is seen with partial agonists or non - opioid analgesics .
Based upon a single dose , relative - potency study conducted in humans with cancer pain , 10 to 15 mg of oxycodone given intramuscularly produced an analgesic effect similar to 10 mg of morphine given intramuscularly .
Both drugs have a 3 to 4 hour duration of action .
Oxycodone retains approximately one half of its analgesic activity when administered orally .
Effects on Central Nervous System – The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown .
However , specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid - like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and play a role in the analgesic effects of this drug .
A significant feature of opioid - induced analgesia is that it occurs without loss of consciousness .
The relief of pain by morphine - like opioids is relatively selective , in that other sensory modalities , ( e . g . , touch , vibrations , vision , hearing , etc . ) are not obtunded .
Oxycodone produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers .
The respiratory depression involves both a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to increases in carbon dioxide tension and to electrical stimulation .
Oxycodone depresses the cough reflex by direct effect on the cough center in the medulla .
Antitussive effects may occur with doses lower than those usually required for analgesia .
Oxycodone causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations .
Effects on Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle – Oxycodone , like other opioid analgesics , produces some degree of nausea and vomiting which is caused by direct stimulation of the chemoreceptor trigger zone ( CTZ ) located in the medulla .
The frequency and severity of emesis gradually diminishes with time .
Oxycodone may cause a decrease in the secretion of hydrochloric acid in the stomach that reduces motility while increasing the tone of the antrum , stomach , and duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone may be increased to the point of spasm resulting in constipation .
Other opioid - induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions , spasm of sphincter of Oddi , and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Effects on Cardiovascular System – Oxycodone , in therapeutic doses , produces peripheral vasodilatation ( arteriolar and venous ) , decreased peripheral resistance , and inhibits baroreceptor reflexes .
Manifestations of histamine release and / or peripheral vasodilatation may include pruritus , flushing , red eyes , sweating , and / or orthostatic hypotension .
Caution should be used in hypovolemic patients , such as those suffering acute myocardial infarction , because oxycodone may cause or further aggravate their hypotension .
Caution should also be used in patients with cor pulmonale who have received therapeutic doses of opioids .
Pharmacodynamics The relationship between the plasma level of oxycodone and the analgesic response will depend on the patient ' s age , state of health , medical condition and extent of previous opioid treatment .
The minimum effective plasma concentration of oxycodone to achieve analgesia will vary widely among patients , especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids .
Thus , patients need to be treated with individualized titration of dosage to the desired effect .
The minimum effective analgesic concentration of oxycodone for any individual patient may increase with repeated dosing due to an increase in pain and / or development of tolerance .
Pharmacokinetics The activity of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is primarily due to the parent drug oxycodone .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are designed to provide immediate release of oxycodone .
Table 1 Pharmacokinetic Parameters ( Mean ± SD ) Dose / Parameters AUC ( ng x hr / mL ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) Tmax ( hr ) Cmin ( ng / mL ) Cavg ( ng / mL ) Half - Life ( hr ) Single Dose Pharmacokinetics Oxycodone HCl 5 mg tabs x 3 133 . 2 ± 33 22 . 3 ± 8 . 2 1 . 8 ± 1 . 8 n / a n / a 3 . 73 ± 0 . 9 Oxycodone HCl 15 mg tab 128 . 2 ± 35 . 1 22 . 2 ± 7 . 6 1 . 4 ± 0 . 7 n / a n / a 3 . 55 ± 1 . 0 Oxycodone HCl Liquid Concentrate 15 mg oral solution 130 . 6 ± 34 . 7 21 . 1 ± 6 . 1 1 . 9 ± 1 . 5 n / a n / a 3 . 71 ± 0 . 8 Oxycodone HCl 30 mg tab 268 . 2 ± 60 . 7 39 . 3 ± 14 . 0 2 . 6 ± 3 . 0 n / a n / a 3 . 85 ± 1 . 3 Food Effect , Single Dose Oxycodone HCl 10 mg / 10 mL oral sol ' n ( fasted ) 105 ± 6 . 2 19 . 0 ± 3 . 7 1 . 25 ± 0 . 5 n / a n / a 2 . 9 ± 0 . 4 Oxycodone HCl 10 mg / 10 mL oral sol ' n ( fed ) 133 ± 25 . 2 17 . 7 ± 3 . 0 2 . 54 ± 1 . 2 n / a n / a 3 . 3 ± 0 . 5 Multiple - Dose Studies AUC ( 72 - 84 ) Oxycodone HCl 5 mg tabs q6h x 14 doses 113 . 3 ± 24 . 0 15 . 7 ± 3 . 2 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 7 . 4 ± 1 . 8 9 . 4 ± 2 . 0 n / a Oxycodone HCl 3 . 33 mg ( 3 . 33 mL ) oral sol ' n q4h x 21 doses 99 . 0 ± 24 . 8 12 . 9 ± 3 . 1 1 . 0 ± 0 . 3 7 . 2 ± 2 . 3 9 . 7 ± 2 . 6 n / a Absorption – About 60 % to 87 % of an oral dose of oxycodone reaches the systemic circulation in comparison to a parenteral dose .
This high oral bioavailability ( compared to other oral opioids ) is due to lower pre - systemic and / or first - pass metabolism of oxycodone .
The relative oral bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride 15 mg and 30 mg tablets , compared to the 5 mg oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , is 96 % and 101 % respectively .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets 15 mg tablets and 30 mg tablets are bioequivalent to the 5 mg oxycodone hydrochloride tablets ( see Table 1 Pharmacokinetic Parameters ) .
Dose proportionality of oxycodone has been established using the oxycodone hydrochloride tablets 5 mg tablets at doses of 5 mg , 15 mg ( three 5 mg tablets ) and 30 mg ( six 5 mg tablets ) based on extent of absorption ( AUC ) ( see Figure 1 ) .
It takes approximately 18 to 24 hours to reach steady - state plasma concentrations of oxycodone with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effect A single - dose food effect study was conducted in normal volunteers using the 5 mg / 5 mL solution .
The concurrent intake of a high fat meal was shown to enhance the extent ( 27 % increase in AUC ) , but not the rate of oxycodone absorption from the oral solution ( see Table 1 ) .
In addition , food caused a delay in Tmax ( 1 . 25 to 2 . 54 hour ) .
Similar effects of food are expected with the 15 mg and 30 mg tablets .
Distribution – Following intravenous administration , the volume of distribution ( Vss ) for oxycodone was 2 . 6 L / kg .
Plasma protein binding of oxycodone at 37 ° C and a pH of 7 . 4 was about 45 % .
Oxycodone has been found in breast milk ( See PRECAUTIONS - Nursing Mothers ) .
Metabolism – Oxycodone hydrochloride is extensively metabolized to noroxycodone , oxymorphone , and their glucuronides .
The major circulating metabolite is noroxycodone with an AUC ratio of 0 . 6 relative to that of oxycodone .
Oxymorphone is present in the plasma only in low concentrations .
The analgesic activity profile of other metabolites is not known at present .
The formation of oxymorphone , but not noroxycodone , is mediated by CYP2D6 and as such its formation can , in theory , be affected by other drugs .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Drug Interactions ) .
Elimination – Oxycodone and its metabolites are excreted primarily via the kidney .
The amounts measured in the urine have been reported as follows : free oxycodone up to 19 % ; conjugated oxycodone up to 50 % ; free oxymorphone 0 % ; conjugated oxymorphone ≤ 14 % ; both free and conjugated noroxycodone have been found in the urine but not quantified .
The total plasma clearance was 0 . 8 L / min for adults .
Apparent elimination half - life of oxycodone following the administration of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets was 3 . 5 to 4 hours .
Special Populations Geriatric – Population pharmacokinetic studies conducted with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , indicated that the plasma concentrations of oxycodone did not appear to be increased in patients over the age of 65 .
Gender – Population pharmacokinetic analyses performed in the clinical study support the lack of gender effect on the pharmacokinetics of oxycodone from oxycodone hydrochloride tablets .
Race – Population pharmacokinetic analyses support the lack of race effect on oxycodone pharmacokinetics after administration of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , but these data should be interpreted conservatively , since the majority of patients enrolled into the studies were Caucasians ( 94 % ) .
Renal Insufficiency – In a clinical trial supporting the development of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , too few patients with decreased renal function were evaluated to study these potential differences .
In previous studies , patients with renal impairment ( defined as a creatinine clearance < 60 mL / min ) had concentrations of oxycodone in the plasma that were higher than in subjects with normal renal function .
Based on information available on the metabolism and excretion of oxycodone , dose initiation in patients with renal impairment should follow a conservative approach .
Dosages should be adjusted according to the clinical situation .
Hepatic Failure – In a clinical trial supporting the development of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , too few patients with decreased hepatic function were evaluated to study these potential differences .
However , since oxycodone is extensively metabolized , its clearance may decrease in hepatic failure patients .
Dose initiation in patients with hepatic impairment should follow a conservative approach .
Dosages should be adjusted according to the clinical situation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are an immediate - release oral formulation of oxycodone hydrochloride indicated for the management of moderate to severe pain where the use of an opioid analgesic is appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to oxycodone , or in any situation where opioids are contraindicated .
This includes patients with significant respiratory depression ( in unmonitored settings or the absence of resuscitative equipment ) and patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma or hypercarbia .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in any patient who has or is suspected of having paralytic ileus .
WARNINGS Respiratory Depression Respiratory depression is the chief hazard from all opioid agonist preparations .
Respiratory depression occurs most frequently in elderly or debilitated patients , usually following large initial doses in non - tolerant patients , or when opioids are given in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be used with extreme caution in patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , and in patients having substantially decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or pre - existing respiratory depression .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may decrease respiratory drive to the point of apnea .
In these patients alternative non - opioid analgesics should be considered , and opioids should be employed only under careful medical supervision at the lowest effective dose .
Hypotensive Effect Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , like all opioid analgesics , may cause severe hypotension in an individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume , or after concurrent administration with drugs such as phenothiazines or other agents which compromise vasomotor tone .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , like all opioid analgesics , should be administered with caution to patients in circulatory shock , since vasodilatation produced by the drug may further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
PRECAUTIONS General Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are intended for use in patients who require oral pain therapy with an opioid agonist .
As with any opioid analgesic , it is critical to adjust the dosing regimen individually for each patient ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Selection of patients for treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be governed by the same principles that apply to the use of other potent opioid analgesics .
Opioid analgesics given on a fixed - dosage schedule have a narrow therapeutic index in certain patient populations , especially when combined with other drugs , and should be reserved for cases where the benefits of opioid analgesia outweigh the known risks of respiratory depression , altered mental state , and postural hypotension .
Physicians should individualize treatment in every case , using nonopioid analgesics , prn opioids and / or combination products , and chronic opioid therapy with drugs such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in a progressive plan of pain management such as outlined by the World Health Organization , the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research , and the American Pain Society .
Use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is associated with increased potential risks and should be used only with caution in the following conditions : acute alcoholism ; adrenocortical insufficiency ( e . g . , Addison ' s disease ) ; convulsive disorders ; CNS depression or coma ; delirium tremens ; debilitated patients ; kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression ; myxedema or hypothyroidism ; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture ; severe impairment of hepatic , pulmonary or renal function ; and toxic psychosis .
The administration of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , like all opioid analgesics , may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Oxycodone may aggravate convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders , and all opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings .
Tolerance and Physical Dependence Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy .
Significant tolerance should not occur in most patients treated with the lowest doses of oxycodone .
It should be expected , however , that a fraction of patients will develop some degree of tolerance and require progressively higher dosages of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets to maintain pain control during chronic treatment .
The dosage should be selected according to the patient ' s individual analgesic response and ability to tolerate side effects .
Tolerance to the analgesic effects of opioids is usually paralleled by tolerance to side effects except for constipation .
Physical dependence results in withdrawal symptoms in patients who abruptly discontinue the drug or may be precipitated through the administration of drugs with opioid antagonist activity .
If oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are abruptly discontinued in a physically dependent patient , an abstinence syndrome may occur ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
If signs and symptoms of withdrawal occur , patients should be treated by reinstitution of opioid therapy followed by gradual tapered dose reduction of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets combined with symptomatic support ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Cessation of Therapy ) .
Use in Pancreatic / Biliary Tract Disease Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis .
Opioids like oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may cause increases in the serum amylase level .
Information for Patients / Caregivers If clinically advisable , patients ( or their caregivers ) receiving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be given the following information by the physician , nurse , pharmacist or caregiver : • Patients should be advised to report episodes of breakthrough pain and adverse experiences occurring during therapy .
Individualization of dosage is essential to make optimal use of this medication .
• Patients should be advised not to adjust the dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets without consulting the prescribing professional .
• Patients should be advised that oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may impair mental and / or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks ( e . g . driving , operating heavy machinery ) .
• Patients should not combine oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants ( sleep aids , tranquilizers ) except by the orders of the prescribing physician , because additive effects may occur .
• Women of childbearing potential who become , or are planning to become , pregnant should be advised to consult their physician regarding the effects of analgesics and other drug use during pregnancy on themselves and their unborn child .
• Patients should be advised that oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are a potential drug of abuse .
They should protect them from theft , and they should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom they were prescribed .
• Patients should be advised that if they have been receiving treatment with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets for more than a few weeks and cessation of therapy is indicated , it may be appropriate to taper the oxycodone hydrochloride tablets dose , rather than abruptly discontinue it , due to the risk of precipitating withdrawal symptoms .
Their physician can provide a dose schedule to accomplish a gradual discontinuation of the medication .
Drug Interactions Oxycodone is metabolized in part to oxymorphone via the cytochrome p450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 .
While this pathway may be blocked by a variety of drugs ( e . g . , certain cardiovascular drugs and antidepressants ) , such blockade has not yet been shown to be of clinical significance with this agent .
However , clinicians should be aware of this possible interaction .
Neuromuscular Blocking Agents – Oxycodone , as well as other opioid analgesics , may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
CNS Depressants – Patients receiving narcotic analgesics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , other tranquilizers , sedative - hypnotics or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
Interactive effects resulting in respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , or coma may result if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual dosage of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets .
When such combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
Mixed Agonist / Antagonist Opioid Analgesics – Agonist / antagonist analgesics ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , butorphanol and buprenorphine ) should be administered with caution to patients who have received or are receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as oxycodone hydrochloride tablets .
In this situation , mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets and / or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) – MAOIs have been reported to intensify the effects of at least one opioid drug causing anxiety , confusion and significant depression of respiration or coma .
The use of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is not recommended for patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies have not been performed in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets or oxycodone .
The possible effects on male or female fertility have not been studied in animals .
Oxycodone hydrochloride was genotoxic in an in vitro mouse lymphoma assay in the presence of metabolic activation .
There was no evidence of genotoxic potential in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) or in an assay for chromosomal aberrations ( in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Category B – Reproduction studies in Sprague - Dawley rats and New Zealand rabbits revealed that when oxycodone was administered orally at doses up to 16 mg / kg ( approximately 2 times the daily oral dose of 90 mg for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) and 25 mg / kg ( approximately 5 times the daily oral dose of 90 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively was not teratogenic or embryo - fetal toxic .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of oxycodone in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human responses , oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be used during pregnancy only if potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects – Neonates whose mothers have taken oxycodone chronically may exhibit respiratory depression and / or withdrawal symptoms , either at birth and / or in the nursery .
Labor and Delivery Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are not recommended for use in women during or immediately prior to labor .
Occasionally , opioid analgesics may prolong labor through actions which temporarily reduce the strength , duration and frequency of uterine contractions .
Neonates , whose mothers received opioid analgesics during labor , should be observed closely for signs of respiratory depression .
A specific narcotic antagonist , naloxone , should be available for reversal of narcotic - induced respiratory depression in the neonate .
Nursing Mothers Oxycodone has been detected in breast milk .
Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breast - feeding infants when maternal administration of an opioid analgesic is stopped .
Ordinarily , nursing should not be undertaken while a patient is receiving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets since oxycodone may be excreted in milk .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of oxycodone in pediatric patients have not been evaluated .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , 20 . 8 % ( 112 / 538 ) were 65 and over , while 7 . 2 % ( 39 / 538 ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Hepatic Impairment Since oxycodone is extensively metabolized , its clearance may decrease in hepatic failure patients .
Dose initiation in patients with hepatic impairment should follow a conservative approach .
Dosages should be adjusted according to the clinical situation .
Renal Impairment Published data reported that elimination of oxycodone was impaired in end - stage renal failure .
Mean elimination half - life was prolonged in uremic patients due to increased volume of distribution and reduced clearance .
Dose initiation should follow a conservative approach .
Dosages should be adjusted according to the clinical situation .
Ambulatory Patients Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient using this drug should be cautioned accordingly .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets have been evaluated in open label clinical trials in patients with cancer and nonmalignant pain .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are associated with adverse experiences similar to those seen with other opioids .
Serious adverse reactions that may be associated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets therapy in clinical use are those observed with other opioid analgesics and include : respiratory depression , respiratory arrest , circulatory depression , cardiac arrest , hypotension , and / or shock ( see OVERDOSAGE , WARNINGS ) .
The less severe adverse events seen on initiation of therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are also typical opioid side effects .
These events are dose dependent , and their frequency depends on the clinical setting , the patient ' s level of opioid tolerance , and host factors specific to the individual .
They should be expected and managed as a part of opioid analgesia .
The most frequent of these include nausea , constipation , vomiting , headache , and pruritus .
In many cases the frequency of adverse events during initiation of opioid therapy may be minimized by careful individualization of starting dosage , slow titration and the avoidance of large rapid swings in plasma concentration of the opioid .
Many of these adverse events will abate as therapy is continued and some degree of tolerance is developed , but others may be expected to remain throughout therapy .
In all patients for whom dosing information was available ( n = 191 ) from the open - label and double - blind studies involving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , the following adverse events were recorded in patients treated with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets with an incidence ≥ 3 % .
In descending order of frequency they were : nausea , constipation , vomiting , headache , pruritus , insomnia , dizziness , asthenia , and somnolence .
The following adverse experiences occurred in less than 3 % of patients involved in clinical trials with oxycodone : Body as a Whole – abdominal pain , accidental injury , allergic reaction , back pain , chills and fever , fever , flu syndrome , infection , neck pain , pain , photosensitivity reaction , and sepsis .
Cardiovascular – deep thrombophlebitis , heart failure , hemorrhage , hypotension , migraine , palpitation , and tachycardia .
Digestive – anorexia , diarrhea , dyspepsia , dysphagia , gingivitis , glossitis , and nausea and vomiting .
Hemic and Lymphatic – anemia and leukopenia .
Metabolic and Nutritional – edema , gout , hyperglycemia , iron deficiency anemia and peripheral edema .
Musculoskeletal – arthralgia , arthritis , bone pain , myalgia and pathological fracture .
Nervous – agitation , anxiety , confusion , dry mouth , hypertonia , hypesthesia , nervousness , neuralgia , personality disorder , tremor , and vasodilation .
Respiratory – bronchitis , cough increased , dyspnea , epistaxis , laryngismus , lung disorder , pharyngitis , rhinitis , and sinusitis .
Skin and Appendages – herpes simplex , rash , sweating , and urticaria .
Special Senses – amblyopia .
Urogenital – urinary tract infection .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Controlled substance oxycodone hydrochloride tablets contain oxycodone , a mu - agonist opioid of the morphine type and is a Schedule II controlled substance .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , like other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
Abuse Drug addiction is characterized by compulsive use , use for nonmedical purposes , and continued use despite harm or risk of harm .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multi - disciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
“ Drug - seeking ” behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated “ loss ” of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
“ Doctor shopping ” to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for nonmedical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are intended for oral use only .
Abuse of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets poses a risk of overdose and death .
The risk is increased with concurrent abuse of alcohol and other substances .
Parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal symptoms .
Dependence Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy .
The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
In general , opioids should not be abruptly discontinued .
OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms Acute overdose with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets can be manifested by respiratory depression , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , bradycardia , hypotension , and death .
Treatment To treat oxycodone hydrochloride tablets overdose , primary attention should be given to the re - establishment of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
Supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) should be employed in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema accompanying overdose as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias may require cardiac massage or defibrillation .
The narcotic antagonists , naloxone or nalmefene , are specific antidotes for opioid overdose .
Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to oxycodone hydrochloride tablets overdose .
If needed the appropriate dose of naloxone hydrochloride or nalmefene should be administered simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation ( see package insert for each drug for the details ) .
Since the duration of action of oxycodone may exceed that of the antagonist , the patient should be kept under continued surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
Gastric emptying may be useful in removing unabsorbed drug .
Opioid antagonists should be administered cautiously to persons who are suspected to be physically dependent on any opioid agonist , including oxycodone ( see Opioid - Tolerant Individuals ) .
Opioid - Tolerant Individuals : In an individual physically dependent on opioids , administration of a usual dose of antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal .
The severity of the withdrawal syndrome produced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered .
Use of an opioid antagonist should be reserved for cases where such treatment is clearly needed .
If it is necessary to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , administration of the antagonist should be begun with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oxycodone hydrochloride tablets are intended for the management of moderate to severe pain in patients who require treatment with an oral opioid analgesic .
The dose should be individually adjusted according to severity of pain , patient response and patient size .
If the pain increases in severity , if analgesia is not adequate , or if tolerance occurs , a gradual increase in dosage may be required .
Patients who have not been receiving opioid analgesics should be started on oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in a dosing range of 5 to 15 mg every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain .
The dose should be titrated based upon the individual patient ' s response to their initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets .
Patients with chronic pain should have their dosage given on an around - the - clock basis to prevent the reoccurrence of pain rather than treating the pain after it has occurred .
This dose can then be adjusted to an acceptable level of analgesia taking into account side effects experienced by the patient .
For control of severe chronic pain , oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be administered on a regularly scheduled basis , every 4 to 6 hours , at the lowest dosage level that will achieve adequate analgesia .
As with any potent opioid , it is critical to adjust the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient ' s prior analgesic treatment experience .
Although it is not possible to list every condition that is important to the selection of the initial dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , attention should be given to : 1 ) the daily dose , potency , and characteristics of a pure agonist or mixed agonist / antagonist the patient has been taking previously , 2 ) the reliability of the relative potency estimate to calculate the dose of oxycodone needed , 3 ) the degree of opioid tolerance , 4 ) the general condition and medical status of the patient , and 5 ) the balance between pain control and adverse experiences .
Conversion from Fixed - Ratio Opioid / Acetaminophen , Opioid / Aspirin , or Opioid / Nonsteroidal Combination Drugs When converting patients from fixed ratio opioid / non - opioid drug regimens a decision should be made whether or not to continue the non - opioid analgesic .
If a decision is made to discontinue the use of non - opioid analgesic , it may be necessary to titrate the dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets in response to the level of analgesia and adverse effects afforded by the dosing regimen .
If the non - opioid regimen is continued as a separate single entity agent , the starting dose oxycodone hydrochloride tablets should be based upon the most recent dose of opioid as a baseline for further titration of oxycodone .
Incremental increases should be gauged according to side effects to an acceptable level of analgesia .
Patients Currently on Opioid Therapy If a patient has been receiving opioid - containing medications prior to taking oxycodone hydrochloride tablets , the potency of the prior opioid relative to oxycodone should be factored into the selection of the total daily dose ( TDD ) of oxycodone .
In converting patients from other opioids to oxycodone hydrochloride tablets close observation and adjustment of dosage based upon the patient ' s response to oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is imperative .
Administration of supplemental analgesia for breakthrough or incident pain and titration of the total daily dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets may be necessary , especially in patients who have disease states that are changing rapidly .
Maintenance of Therapy Continual re - evaluation of the patient receiving oxycodone hydrochloride tablets is important , with special attention to the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of side effects associated with therapy .
If the level of pain increases , effort should be made to identify the source of increased pain , while adjusting the dose as described above to decrease the level of pain .
During chronic therapy , especially for non - cancer - related pain ( or pain associated with other terminal illnesses ) , the continued need for the use of opioid analgesics should be reassessed as appropriate .
Cessation of Therapy When a patient no longer requires therapy with oxycodone hydrochloride tablets or other opioid analgesics for the treatment of their pain , it is important that therapy be gradually discontinued over time to prevent the development of an opioid abstinence syndrome ( narcotic withdrawal ) .
In general , therapy can be decreased by 25 % to 50 % per day with careful monitoring for signs and symptoms of withdrawal ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section for description of the signs and symptoms of withdrawal ) .
If the patient develops these signs or symptoms , the dose should be raised to the previous level and titrated down more slowly , either by increasing the interval between decreases , decreasing the amount of change in dose , or both .
It is not known at what dose of oxycodone hydrochloride tablets that treatment may be discontinued without risk of the opioid abstinence syndrome .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
