Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL teaspoonful ) Codeine Phosphate * 9 mg * WARNING : May be habit forming .
Pyrilamine Maleate 8 . 33 mg Purpose Antitussive Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms due to the common cold , hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , water eyes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have • a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • chronic pulmonary disease or shortness of breath , or children who are taking other drugs • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma • trouble urinating due to an enlarged prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product • may cause or aggravate constipation • excitability may occur , especially in children • may cause marked drowsiness • avoid alcoholic drinks • alcohol , sedatives , and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect • be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery Stop use and ask a doctor if • a cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
• new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Adults and children 12 years of age and over : 2 teaspoonfuls ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 doses in 24 hours .
Children 6 to under 12 years of age : 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 6 doses in 24 hours Children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
A special measuring device should be used to give an accurate dose of this product to children under 6 years of age .
Giving a higher dose than recommended by a doctor could result in serious side effects for your child .
Other information Store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Cotton Candy Flavor , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbitol .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Call 1 - 660 - 665 - 0084 ( 8 a . m . to 5 p . m . ) CV Product Packaging : The packaging below represents the labeling currently used .
Principal display panel and side panel for 473 mL label : NDC # 66594 - 333 - 16 CV PRO - CLEAR AC SYRUP SUGAR FREE · DYE FREE · ALCOHOL FREE · GLUTEN FREE ANTITISSIVE · ANTIHISTAMINE Each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) contains : CODEINE PHOSPHATE * ............................. 9 mg * ( WARNING : MAY BE HABIT - FORMING ) PYRILAMINE MALEATE .......................... 8 . 33 mg Cotton Candy Flavor 16 FL .
OZ .
( 473 mL ) PRO - PHARMA LLC Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is broken or missing .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container with a child - resistant cap .
THIS BOTTLE IS NOT TO BE DISPENSED TO THE CONSUMER .
Manufactured by : Great Southern Laboratories , Houston , TX 77099 Distributed for : Pro - Pharma , LLC Kirksville , MO 63501 Rev . 10 / 11 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
