FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE Fliptop Vial Rx only WARNING : ADDICTION , ABUSE , AND MISUSE ; LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION ; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME ; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse Morphine Sulfate Injection exposes patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction , abuse , and misuse , which can lead to overdose and death .
Assess each patient ' s risk prior to prescribing Morphine Sulfate Injection , and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors and conditions ( see WARNINGS ) .
Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Monitor for respiratory depression , especially during initiation of Morphine Sulfate Injection or following a dose increase .
Because of delay in maximum central nervous system ( CNS ) effect with intravenously administered morphine ( 30 min ) , rapid intravenous administration may result in overdosing ( see WARNINGS ) .
Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of Morphine Sulfate Injection during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , which may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated , and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts .
If opioid use is required for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman , advise the patient of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available ( see WARNINGS ) .
Risks From Concomitant Use With Benzodiazepines Or Other CNS Depressants Concomitant use of opioids with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants , including alcohol , may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death ( see WARNINGS , Drug Interactions ) .
• Reserve concomitant prescribing of Morphine Sulfate Injection and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
• Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
• Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
DESCRIPTION Morphine is a tertiary nitrogen base containing a phenanthrene nucleus ; it has two hydroxyl groups , one phenolic and the other alcoholic ( secondary ) .
The sulfate salt occurs as white , feathery , silky crystals , cubical masses of crystals , or white , crystalline powder .
The chemical name of morphine sulfate is 7 , 8 - didehydro - 4 , 5α - epoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 3 , 6α - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , pentahydrate .
It has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile solution of morphine sulfate pentahydrate in Water for Injection , USP .
Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP is available in the following concentrations : Each mL of Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP , Preservative Free ( no bacteriostat or antioxidant added ) contains 25 mg Morphine Sulfate in Water for Injection .
Sulfuric acid added for adjustment of pH to 3 . 5 ( 2 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) .
Each mL of Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP , ( no bacteriostat added ) , contains 25 mg or 50 mg Morphine Sulfate , 0 . 75 mg Edetate Disodium , 1 mg Sodium Metabisulfite ( added during manufacture ) as an antioxidant , in Water for Injection .
Sulfuric acid added for adjustment of pH to 3 . 5 ( 2 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) .
NOTE : These products are intended for intravenous use only .
They are not intended for intrathecal or epidural use .
They are for use after dilution , not for direct infusion , and is intended as a single - dose unit .
It contains no antimicrobial preservatives .
When the dosing requirement is completed , the unused portion should be discarded in an appropriate manner .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Morphine is a full opioid agonist and is relatively selective for the mu - opioid receptor , although it can bind to other opioid receptors at higher doses .
The principal therapeutic action of morphine is analgesia .
Like all full opioid agonists , there is no ceiling effect for analgesia with morphine .
Clinically , dosage is titrated to provide adequate analgesia and may be limited by adverse reactions , including respiratory and CNS depression .
The precise mechanism of the analgesic action is unknown .
However , specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid - like activity have been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and are thought to play a role in the analgesic effects of this drug .
Pharmacodynamics Effects on the CNS Morphine sulfate produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers .
The respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to both increases in carbon dioxide tension and electrical stimulation .
Morphine causes miosis , even in total darkness .
Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but are not pathognomonic ( e . g . , pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origins may produce similar findings ) .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen due to hypoxia in overdose situations .
Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract and Other Smooth Muscle Morphine causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in the antrum of the stomach duodenum .
Digestion of food in the small intestine is delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased .
Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased , while tone may be increased to the point of spasm , resulting in constipation .
Other opioid - induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions , spasm of sphincter of Oddi , and transient elevations in serum amylase .
Effects of the Cardiovascular System Morphine produces peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope .
Manifestations of histamine release and / or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus , flushing , red eyes , sweating , and / or orthostatic hypotension .
Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) , cortisol , and luteinizing hormones ( LH ) in humans .
They also stimulate prolactin , growth hormone ( GH ) secretion , and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon .
Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal axis , leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido , impotence , erectile dysfunction , amenorrhea , or infertility .
The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical , physical , lifestyle , and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Effects on the Immune System Opioids have been shown to have a variety of effects on components of the immune system in in vitro and animal models .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Overall , the effects of opioids appear to be modestly immunosuppressive .
Concentration – Efficacy Relationships The minimum effective analgesic concentration will vary widely among patients , especially among patients who have been previously treated with potent agonist opioids .
The minimum effective analgesic concentration of morphine for any individual patient may increase over time due to an increase in pain , the development of a new pain syndrome , and / or the development of analgesic tolerance .
Concentration – Adverse Reaction Relationships There is a relationship between increasing morphine sulfate plasma concentration and increasing frequency of dose - related opioid adverse reactions such as nausea , vomiting , CNS effects , and respiratory depression .
In opioid - tolerant patients , the situation may be altered by the development of tolerance to opioid - related adverse reactions .
Pharmacokinetics Distribution Morphine has an apparent volume of distribution ranging from 1 . 0 to 4 . 7 L / kg after parenteral administration .
Protein binding is low , about 36 % , and muscle tissue binding is reported as 54 % .
A blood - brain barrier exists , and when morphine is introduced outside of the CNS , plasma concentrations of morphine remain higher than the corresponding CSF morphine levels .
Metabolism The major pathway of clearance is hepatic glucuronidation to morphine - 3 - glucuronide , which is pharmacologically inactive .
Excretion The major excretion path of the conjugate is through the kidneys , with about 10 % in the feces .
Morphine is also eliminated by the kidneys , 2 to 12 % being excreted unchanged in the urine .
Terminal half - life is commonly reported to vary from 1 . 5 to 4 . 5 hours , although the longer half - lives were obtained when morphine levels were monitored over protracted periods with very sensitive radioimmunoassay methods .
The accepted elimination half - life in normal subjects is 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Morphine has a total plasma clearance which ranges from 0 . 9 to 1 . 2 L / kg / h in post - operative patients , but shows considerable interindividual variation .
Specific Population Sex While evidence of greater post - operative Morphine Sulfate Injection consumption in men compared to women is present in the literature , clinically significant differences in analgesic outcomes and pharmacokinetic parameters have not been consistently demonstrated .
Some studies have shown an increased sensitivity to the adverse effects of Morphine Sulfate Injection , including respiratory depression , in women compared to men .
Hepatic Impairment Morphine pharmacokinetics are altered in patients with cirrhosis .
Clearance was found to decrease with a corresponding increase in half - life .
The M3G and M6G to morphine AUC ratios also decreased in these subjects , indicating diminished metabolic activity .
Adequate studies of the pharmacokinetics of morphine in patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been conducted .
Renal Impairment Morphine pharmacokinetics are altered in patients with renal failure .
The AUC is increased and clearance is decreased and the metabolites , M3G and M6G , may accumulate to much higher plasma levels in patients with renal failure as compared to patients with normal renal function .
Adequate studies of the pharmacokinetics of morphine in patients with severe renal impairment have not been conducted .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Morphine sulfate is indicated for the relief of severe pain .
It is used preoperatively to sedate the patient and allay apprehension , facilitate anesthesia induction and reduce anesthetic dosage .
It is likewise effective in the control of post - operative pain .
The use of morphine for the relief of pain should be reserved for the more severe manifestations of pain , as in myocardial infarction , severe injuries , or in severe chronic pain associated with terminal cancer after all non - narcotic analgesics have failed .
Effective analgesic therapy of severe chronic pain associated with terminal cancer continues to be a difficult problem .
Intermittent administration of intramuscular morphine may be effective ; however , the mode of therapy has significant limitations .
Morphine has a short plasma half - life of 2 . 5 to 3 . 0 hours ; therefore , frequent administration ( every 1 to 2 hours ) often becomes necessary to control severe pain associated with cancer .
Tolerance develops to the analgesic effects and increasingly higher doses of morphine are required to produce analgesia .
The higher morphine doses produce significant and often life - threatening side effects ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The peak and trough effects produced by intermittent administration cause fluctuations in pain control .
Repeated intramuscular injections are frequently unacceptable due to the lack of muscle mass in the debilitated patient , the tendency for bruising and bleeding at the injection site , and the anxiety and pain associated with the injection .
Continuous intravenous infusion of morphine ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) has been employed as an alternative to traditional modes of administration .
Lower doses of morphine produce uniform pain control because a steady morphine concentration is maintained .
Titration of the dosage to the patient ' s needs is easily achieved by adjusting the infusion rate .
The lag time between the patient ' s request for pain medication and administration of the dose and the amount of nursing time necessary for preparation and administration of frequent doses are reduced .
The degree of respiratory depression and sedation may be decreased , and the anxiety experienced by the patient in anticipation of intramuscular administration is avoided .
Some Investigators feel that tolerance to the analgesic effects may develop more slowly with continuous intravenous infusion .
In addition to analgesia , the drug may relieve anxiety and reduce left ventricular work by reducing preload pressure .
Morphine is also used in the therapy of dyspnea associated with acute left ventricular and pulmonary edema .
Care must be taken to avoid inducing respiratory depression in such patients .
For open - heart surgery , especially in high risk patients with cardiac disease , some anesthesiologists use morphine to produce anesthesia .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Morphine Sulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Significant respiratory depression ( see WARNINGS ) • Acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment ( see PRECAUTIONS ) • Concurrent use of monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) or use of MAOIs within the last 14 days ( see WARNINGS ) • Known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction , including paralytic ileus ( see PRECAUTIONS ) • Hypersensitivity to morphine ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) Because of its stimulating effect on the spinal cord , morphine should not be used in convulsive states , such as those occurring in status epilepticus , tetanus , and strychnine poisoning .
Morphine is also contraindicated in the following conditions : heart failure secondary to chronic lung disease ; cardiac arrhythmias ; increased intracranial or cerebrospinal pressure ; head injuries ; brain tumor ; acute alcoholism ; and delirium tremens .
The use of bisulfites is contraindicated in asthmatics .
Bisulfites and morphine may potentiate each other , preventing use by causing severe adverse reactions .
Use with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients with substantially decreased respiratory reserve , and patients with pre - existing respiratory depression , hypoxia or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
WARNINGS Contains Sulfites The product which contains antioxidant ( 25 mg / mL and 50 mg / mL concentrations – see DESCRIPTION and HOW SUPPLIED ) , contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse Morphine Sulfate Injection contains morphine , a Schedule II controlled substance .
As an opioid , Morphine Sulfate Injection exposes users to the risks of addiction , abuse , and misuse ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Although the risk of addiction in any individual is unknown , it can occur in patients appropriately prescribed Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Addiction can occur at recommended dosages and if the drug is misused or abused .
Assess each patient ' s risk for opioid addiction , abuse , or misuse prior to prescribing Morphine Sulfate Injection , and monitor all patients receiving morphine sulfate for the development of these behaviors and conditions .
Risks are increased in patients with a personal or family history of substance abuse ( including drug or alcohol abuse or addiction ) or mental illness ( e . g . , major depression ) .
The potential for these risks should not , however , prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient .
Patients at increased risk may be prescribed opioids such as Morphine Sulfate Injection , but use in such patients necessitates intensive counseling about the risks and proper use of Morphine Sulfate Injection along with intensive monitoring for signs of addiction , abuse , and misuse .
Opioids are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Consider these risks when prescribing or dispensing Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Strategies to reduce these risks include prescribing the drug in the smallest appropriate quantity .
Contact local state professional licensing board or state controlled substances authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression Serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids , even when used as recommended .
Respiratory depression , if not immediately recognized and treated , may lead to respiratory arrest and death .
Management of respiratory depression may include close observation , supportive measures , and use of opioid antagonists , depending on the patient ' s clinical status ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) retention from opioid - induced respiratory depression can exacerbate the sedating effects of opioids .
While serious , life - threatening , or fatal respiratory depression can occur at any time during the use of Morphine Sulfate Injection , the risk is greatest during the initiation of therapy or following a dosage increase .
Because of a delay in the maximum CNS effect with intravenously administered Morphine Sulfate Injection ( 30 min ) , rapid administration may result in overdosing .
The respiratory depression may be severe and could require intervention ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 – 72 hours of initiating therapy with and following dosage increases of Morphine Sulfate Injection .
To reduce the risk of respiratory depression , proper dosing and titration of Morphine Sulfate Injection are essential ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Overestimating the Morphine Sulfate Injection dosage when converting patients from another opioid product can result in a fatal overdose with the first dose .
Opioids can cause sleep - related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea ( CSA ) and sleep - related hypoxemia .
Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose - dependent fashion .
In patients who present with CSA , consider decreasing the opioid dosage using best practices for opioid taper ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome Prolonged use of Morphine Sulfate Injection during pregnancy can result in withdrawal in the neonate .
Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome , unlike opioid withdrawal syndrome in adults , may be life - threatening if not recognized and treated , and requires management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts .
Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly .
Advise pregnant women using opioids for a prolonged period of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure that appropriate treatment will be available ( see Pregnancy ) .
Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants Profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death may result from the concomitant use of Morphine Sulfate Injection with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( e . g . , non - benzodiazepine sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , other opioids , alcohol ) .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioid analgesics alone .
Because of similar pharmacological properties , it is reasonable to expect similar risk with the concomitant use of other CNS depressant drugs with opioid analgesics ( see Drug Interactions ) .
If the decision is made to prescribe a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant concomitantly with an opioid analgesic , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant than indicated in the absence of an opioid , and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid analgesic is initiated in a patient already taking a benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid analgesic , and titrate based on clinical response .
Follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Morphine Sulfate Injection is used with benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol and illicit drugs ) .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use of the benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant have been determined .
Screen patients for risk of substance use disorders , including opioid abuse and misuse , and warn them of the risk for overdose and death associated with the use of additional CNS depressants including alcohol and illicit drugs ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Cardiovascular Instability While low doses of intravenously administered morphine have little effect on cardiovascular stability , high doses are excitatory , resulting from sympathetic hyperactivity and increase in circulatory catecholamines .
Have naloxone injection and resuscitative equipment immediately available for use in case of life - threatening or intolerable side effects and whenever morphine therapy is being initiated .
Interaction with Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) may potentiate the effects of morphine , including respiratory depression , coma , and confusion .
Morphine Sulfate Injection should not be used in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment .
Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than one month of use .
Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non - specific symptoms and signs including nausea , vomiting , anorexia , fatigue , weakness , dizziness , and low blood pressure .
If adrenal insufficiency is suspected , confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible .
If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed , treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids .
Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers .
Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency .
The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency .
Withdrawal Avoid the use of mixed agonist / antagonist ( e . g . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , and butorphanol ) or partial agonist ( e . g . , buprenorphine ) analgesics in patients who are receiving a full opioid agonist analgesic , including Morphine Sulfate Injection .
In these patients , mixed agonist / antagonist and partial agonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect and / or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
When discontinuing Morphine Sulfate Injection in a physically - dependent patient , gradually taper the dosage .
Do not abruptly discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection in these patients ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Risks of Driving and Operating Machinery Morphine Sulfate Injection may impair the mental or physical abilities needed to perform potentially hazardous activities such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Warn patients not to drive or operate dangerous machinery unless they are tolerant to the effects of Morphine Sulfate Injection and know how they will react to the medication .
PRECAUTIONS General Parenteral Therapy Give by very slow intravenous injection , in the form of a diluted solution .
Rapid intravenous injection of morphine and other narcotic analgesics increases the incidence of adverse reactions ; severe respiratory depression , hypotension , apnea , peripheral circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and anaphylactic reactions have occurred .
These preparations should not be administered intravenously unless a narcotic antagonist and facilities for assisted or controlled respiration are immediately available .
When given parenterally , especially intravenously , the patient should be lying down .
Use caution when injecting subcutaneously or intramuscularly in chilled areas or in patients with hypotension or shock , since impaired perfusion may prevent complete absorption .
If repeated injections are administered , an excessive amount may be suddenly absorbed if normal circulation is reestablished .
Asthma and Other Respiratory Conditions The use of bisulfites is contraindicated in asthmatics .
Bisulfites and morphine may potentiate each other , preventing use by causing severe adverse reactions .
Use with extreme caution in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients with substantially decreased respiratory reserve , and patients with pre - existing respiratory depression , hypoxia or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
Supraventricular Tachycardias Caution should be used in patients with atrial flutter and other supraventricular tachycardias due to a possible vagolytic action which may produce a significant increase in the ventricular response rate .
Renal and Hepatic Dysfunction Morphine may have a prolonged duration and cumulative effect in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction .
Convulsions Morphine may aggravate pre - existing convulsive disorders .
Convulsions may occur in individuals without a history of convulsive disorders if dosage is substantially escalated above recommended levels because of tolerance development .
Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression in Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease or in Elderly , Cachectic , or Debilitated Patients The use of Morphine Sulfate Injection in patients with acute or severe bronchial asthma in an unmonitored setting or in the absence of resuscitative equipment is contraindicated .
Patients with Chronic Pulmonary Disease Morphine Sulfate Injection - treated patients with significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , and those with a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , hypoxia , hypercapnia , or pre - existing respiratory depression are at increased risk of decreased respiratory drive including apnea , even at recommended dosages of Morphine Sulfate Injection ( see WARNINGS ) .
Elderly , Cachectic , or Debilitated Patients Life - threatening respiratory depression is more likely to occur in elderly , cachectic , or debilitated patients because they may have altered pharmacokinetics or altered clearance compared to younger , healthier patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Caution must be exercised in elderly and debilitated patients and in patients who are known to be sensitive to CNS depressants , including those with cardiovascular or pulmonary disease , myxedema , cerebral arteriosclerosis , emphysema , fever , bronchial asthma , kyphoscoliosis , Addison ' s disease , prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture , toxic psychosis .
Monitor such patients closely , particularly when initiating and titrating Morphine Sulfate Injection and when Morphine Sulfate Injection is given concomitantly with other drugs that depress respiration ( see WARNINGS ) .
Alternatively , consider the use of non - opioid analgesics in these patients .
Risks of Use in Patients with Increased Intracranial Pressure , Brain Tumors , Head Injury , or Impaired Consciousness In patients who may be susceptible to the intracranial effects of CO2 retention ( e . g . , those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or brain tumors ) , Morphine Sulfate Injection may reduce respiratory drive , and the resultant CO2 retention can further increase intracranial pressure .
Monitor such patients for signs of sedation and respiratory depression , particularly when initiating therapy with Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Opioids may also obscure the clinical course in a patient with a head injury .
Avoid the use of Morphine Sulfate Injection in patients with impaired consciousness or coma .
Severe Hypotension Morphine Sulfate Injection may cause severe hypotension including orthostatic hypotension and syncope in ambulatory patients .
There is increased risk in patients whose ability to maintain blood pressure has already been compromised by a reduced blood volume or concurrent administration of certain CNS depressant drugs ( e . g . , phenothiazines or general anesthetics ) ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Monitor these patients for signs of hypotension after initiating or titrating the dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection .
In patients with circulatory shock , Morphine Sulfate Injection may cause vasodilation that can further reduce cardiac output and blood pressure .
Avoid the use of Morphine Sulfate Injection in patients with circulatory shock .
Risks of Use in Patients with Gastrointestinal Conditions Morphine Sulfate Injection is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal obstruction , including paralytic ileus .
The morphine in Morphine Sulfate Injection may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi .
Opioids may cause increases in serum amylase .
Monitor patients with biliary tract disease , including acute pancreatitis , for worsening symptoms .
The administration of morphine or other narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Use also with caution in patients with gastrointestinal hemorrhage , ulcerative colitis , or recent gastrointestinal or urinary tract surgery .
Increased Risk of Seizures in Patients with Seizure Disorders The morphine in Morphine Sulfate Injection may increase the frequency of seizures in patients with seizure disorders , and may increase the risk of seizures occurring in other clinical settings associated with seizures .
Monitor patients with a history of seizure disorders for worsened seizure control during Morphine Sulfate Injection therapy .
Patient Information Serotonin Syndrome Opioids can cause a rare but potentially life - threatening condition resulting from concomitant administration of serotonergic drugs .
Instruct patients to inform their physicians if they are taking , or plan to take serotonergic medications ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Constipation Advise patients of the potential for severe constipation , including management instructions and when to seek medical attention ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions Morphine may increase the anticoagulant activity of coumarin and other anticoagulants .
When morphine is to be administered to patients receiving propiomazine ( Largon ) , the dose of morphine should be reduced by one - quarter to one - half .
Atropine antagonizes morphine respiratory depression .
Levallorphan and nalorphine antagonize morphine actions , principally the respiratory depression .
Table 1 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Morphine Sulfate InjectionBenzodiazepines and Other CNS Depressants Clinical Impact : Due to additive pharmacologic effect , the concomitant use of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants , including alcohol , can increase the risk of hypotension , respiratory depression , profound sedation , coma , and death .
Intervention : Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
Follow patients closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation ( see WARNINGS ) .
Examples : Benzodiazepines and other sedatives / hypnotics , anxiolytics , tranquilizers , muscle relaxants , general anesthetics , antipsychotics , other opioids , alcohol .
Serotonergic Drugs Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of opioids with other drugs that affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter system has resulted in serotonin syndrome .
Intervention : If concomitant use is warranted , carefully observe the patient , particularly during treatment initiation and dose adjustment .
Discontinue Morphine Sulfate Injection if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
Examples : Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , triptans , 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , drugs that affect the serotonin neurotransmitter system ( e . g . , mirtazapine , trazodone , tramadol ) , certain muscle relaxants ( i . e . , cyclobenzaprine , metaxalone ) , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors ( those intended to treat psychiatric disorders and also others , such as linezolid and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Clinical Impact : MAOI interactions with opioids may manifest as serotonin syndrome or opioid toxicity ( e . g . , respiratory depression , coma ) ( see WARNINGS ) .
Intervention : Do not use Morphine Sulfate Injection in patients taking MAOIs or within 14 days of stopping such treatment .
If urgent use of an opioid is necessary , use test doses and frequent titration of small doses of other opioids ( such as oxycodone , hydrocodone , oxymorphone , or buprenorphine ) to treat pain while closely monitoring blood pressure and signs and symptoms of CNS and respiratory depression .
Examples : phenelzine , tranylcypromine , linezolid Mixed Agonist / Antagonist and Partial Agonist Opioid Analgesics Clinical Impact : May reduce the analgesic effect of Morphine Sulfate Injection and / or precipitate withdrawal symptoms .
Intervention : Avoid concomitant use .
Examples : butorphanol , nalbuphine , pentazocine , buprenorphine Muscle Relaxants Clinical Impact : Morphine may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
Intervention : Monitor patients for signs of respiratory depression that may be greater than otherwise expected and decrease the dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection and / or the muscle relaxant as necessary .
Cimetidine Clinical Impact : Concomitant administration of Morphine Sulfate Injection and cimetidine has been reported to precipitate apnea , confusion , and muscle twitching in an isolated report .
Intervention : Monitor patients for increased respiratory and CNS depression when receiving cimetidine concomitantly with Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Diuretics Clinical Impact : Opioids can reduce the efficacy of diuretics by inducing the release of antidiuretic hormone .
Intervention : Monitor patients for signs of diminished diuresis and / or effects on blood pressure and increase the dosage of the diuretic as needed .
Anticholinergic Drugs Clinical Impact : The concomitant use of anticholinergic drugs may increase risk of urinary retention and / or severe constipation , which may lead to paralytic ileus .
Intervention : Monitor patients for signs of urinary retention or reduced gastric motility when Morphine Sulfate Injection is used concomitantly with anticholinergic drugs .
Oral P2Y12 Inhibitors Clinical Impact : The co - administration of oral P2Y12 inhibitors and intravenous morphine sulfate can decrease the absorption and peak concentration of oral P2Y12 inhibitors and delay the onset of the antiplatelet effect .
Intervention : Consider the use of a parenteral antiplatelet agent in the setting of acute coronary syndrome requiring co - administration of intravenous morphine sulfate .
Examples : clopidogrel , prasugrel , ticagrelor Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of morphine have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis No formal studies to assess the mutagenic potential of morphine have been conducted .
In the published literature , morphine was found to be mutagenic in vitro increasing DNA fragmentation in human T - cells .
Morphine was also reported to be mutagenic in the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay and positive for the induction of chromosomal aberrations in mouse spermatids and murine lymphocytes .
Mechanistic studies suggest that the in vivo clastogenic effects reported with morphine in mice may be related to increases in glucocorticoid levels produced by morphine in these species .
In contrast to the above positive findings , in vitro studies in the literature have also shown that morphine did not induce chromosomal aberrations in human leukocytes or translocations or lethal mutations in Drosophila .
Impairment of Fertility No formal nonclinical studies to assess the potential of morphine to impair fertility have been conducted .
Several nonclinical studies from the literature have demonstrated adverse effects on male fertility in the rat from exposure to morphine .
One study in which male rats were administered morphine sulfate subcutaneously prior to mating ( up to 30 mg / kg twice daily ) and during mating ( 20 mg / kg twice daily ) with untreated females , a number of adverse reproductive effects including reduction in total pregnancies and higher incidence of pseudopregnancies at 20 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the human daily dose - HDD of 60 mg based on body surface area ) were reported .
Studies from the literature have also reported changes in hormonal levels in male rats ( i . e . , testosterone , LH ) following treatment with morphine at 10 mg / kg / day or greater ( 1 . 6 times the HDD ) .
Female rats that were administered morphine sulfate intraperitoneally prior to mating exhibited prolonged estrous cycles at 10 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 6 times the HDD ) .
Exposure of adolescent male rats to morphine has been associated with delayed sexual maturation and following mating to untreated females , smaller litters , increased pup mortality , and / or changes in reproductive endocrine status in adult male offspring have been reported ( estimated 5 times the plasma levels at the HDD ) .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy can cause neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome ( see WARNINGS ) .
There are no available data with Morphine Sulfate Injection in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
Published studies with morphine use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with morphine and major birth defects ( see Human Data ) .
In published animal reproduction studies , morphine administered subcutaneously during the early gestational period produced neural tube defects ( i . e . , exencephaly and cranioschisis ) at 5 and 16 times the HDD of 60 mg based on body surface area in hamsters and mice , respectively , lower fetal body weight and increased incidence of abortion at 0 . 4 times the HDD in the rabbit , growth retardation at 6 times the HDD in the rat , and axial skeletal fusion and cryptorchidism at 16 times the HDD in the mouse .
Administration of morphine sulfate to pregnant rats during organogenesis and through lactation resulted in cyanosis , hypothermia , decreased brain weights , pup mortality , decreased pup body weights , and adverse effects on reproductive tissues at 3 – 4 times the HDD ; and long - term neurochemical changes in the brain of offspring which correlate with altered behavioral responses that persist through adulthood at exposures comparable to and less than the HDD ( see Animal Data ) .
Based on animal data , advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Prolonged use of opioid analgesics during pregnancy for medical or non - medical purposes can result in physical dependence in the neonate and neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome shortly after birth .
Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome presents as irritability , hyperactivity and abnormal sleep pattern , high pitched cry , tremor , vomiting , diarrhea , and failure to gain weight .
The onset , duration , and severity of neonatal withdrawal syndrome vary based on the specific opioid used , duration of use , timing and amount of last maternal use , and rate of elimination of the drug by the newborn .
Observe newborns for signs of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and manage accordingly ( see WARNINGS ) .
Labor or Delivery Opioids cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression and psycho - physiologic effects in neonates .
An opioid antagonist , such as naloxone , must be available for reversal of opioid - induced respiratory depression in the neonate .
Morphine Sulfate Injection is not recommended for use in women during and immediately prior to labor , when use of shorter - acting analgesics or other analgesic techniques are more appropriate .
Opioid analgesics , including Morphine Sulfate Injection , can prolong labor through actions that temporarily reduce the strength , duration , and frequency of uterine contractions .
However , this effect is not consistent and may be offset by an increased rate of cervical dilatation , which tends to shorten labor .
Monitor neonates exposed to opioid analgesics during labor for signs of excess sedation and respiratory depression .
Data Human Data The results from a population - based prospective cohort , including 70 women exposed to morphine during the first trimester of pregnancy and 448 women exposed to morphine at any time during pregnancy , indicate no increased risk for congenital malformations .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and non - randomized study design .
Animal Data Formal reproductive and developmental toxicology studies for morphine have not been conducted .
Exposure margins for the following published study reports are based on the HDD of 60 mg morphine using a body surface area comparison .
Neural tube defects ( exencephaly and cranioschisis ) were noted following subcutaneous administration of morphine sulfate ( 35 – 322 mg / kg ) on Gestation Day 8 to pregnant hamsters ( 4 . 7 to 43 . 5 times the HDD ) .
A no adverse effect level was not defined in this study and the findings cannot be clearly attributed to maternal toxicity .
Neural tube defects ( exencephaly ) , axial skeletal fusions , and cryptorchidism were reported following a single subcutaneous injection of morphine sulfate to pregnant mice ( 100 – 500 mg / kg ) on Gestation Day 8 or 9 at 200 mg / kg or greater ( 16 times the HDD ) and fetal resorption at 400 mg / kg or higher ( 32 times the HDD ) .
No adverse effects were noted following 100 mg / kg morphine in this model ( 8 times the HDD ) .
In one study , following continuous subcutaneous infusion of doses greater than or equal to 2 . 72 mg / kg to mice ( 0 . 2 times the HDD ) , exencephaly , hydronephrosis , intestinal hemorrhage , split supraoccipital , malformed sternebrae , and malformed xiphoid were noted .
The effects were reduced with increasing daily dose ; possibly due to rapid induction of tolerance under these infusion conditions .
The clinical significance of this report is not clear .
Decreased fetal weights were observed in pregnant rats treated with 20 mg / kg / day morphine sulfate ( 3 . 2 times the HDD ) from Gestation Day 7 to 9 .
There was no evidence of malformations despite maternal toxicity ( 10 % mortality ) .
In a second rat study , decreased fetal weight and increased incidences of growth retardation were noted at 35 mg / kg / day ( 5 . 7 times the HDD ) and there was a reduced number of fetuses at 70 mg / kg / day ( 11 . 4 times the HDD ) when pregnant rats were treated with 10 , 35 , or 70 mg / kg / day morphine sulfate via continuous infusion from Gestation Day 5 to 20 .
There was no evidence of fetal malformations or maternal toxicity .
An increased incidence of abortion was noted in a study in which pregnant rabbits were treated with 2 . 5 ( 0 . 8 times the HDD ) to 10 mg / kg morphine sulfate via subcutaneous injection from Gestation Day 6 to 10 .
In a second study , decreased fetal body weights were reported following treatment of pregnant rabbits with increasing doses of morphine ( 10 – 50 mg / kg / day ) during the pre - mating period and 50 mg / kg / day ( 16 times the HDD ) throughout the gestation period .
No overt malformations were reported in either publication ; although only limited endpoints were evaluated .
In published studies in rats , exposure to morphine during gestation and / or lactation periods is associated with : decreased pup viability at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day or greater ( 2 times the HDD ) ; decreased pup body weights at 15 mg / kg / day or greater ( 2 . 4 times the HDD ) ; decreased litter size , decreased absolute brain and cerebellar weights , cyanosis , and hypothermia at 20 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the HDD ) ; alteration of behavioral responses ( play , social - interaction ) at 1 mg / kg / day or greater ( 0 . 2 times the HDD ) ; alteration of maternal behaviors ( e . g . , decreased nursing and pup retrievals ) in mice at 1 mg / kg or higher ( 0 . 08 times the HDD ) and rats at 1 . 5 mg / kg / day or higher ( 0 . 2 times the HDD ) ; and a host of behavioral abnormalities in the offspring of rats , including altered responsiveness to opioids at 4 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the HDD ) or greater .
Fetal and / or postnatal exposure to morphine in mice and rats has been shown to result in morphological changes in fetal and neonatal brain and neuronal cell loss , alteration of a number of neurotransmitter and neuromodulator systems , including opioid and non - opioid systems , and impairment in various learning and memory tests that appear to persist into adulthood .
These studies were conducted with morphine treatment usually in the range of 4 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 to 3 . 2 times the HDD ) .
Additionally , delayed sexual maturation and decreased sexual behaviors in female offspring at 20 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the HDD ) , and decreased plasma and testicular levels of LH and testosterone , decreased testes weights , seminiferous tubule shrinkage , germinal cell aplasia , and decreased spermatogenesis in male offspring were also observed at 20 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the HDD ) .
Decreased litter size and viability were observed in the offspring of male rats that were intraperitoneally administered morphine sulfate for 1 day prior to mating at 25 mg / kg / day ( 4 . 1 times the HDD ) and mated to untreated females .
Decreased viability and body weight and / or movement deficits in both first and second generation offspring were reported when male mice were treated for 5 days with escalating doses of 120 to 240 mg / kg / day morphine sulfate ( 9 . 7 to 19 . 5 times the HDD ) or when female mice treated with escalating doses of 60 to 240 mg / kg / day ( 4 . 9 to 19 . 5 times the HDD ) followed by a 5 - day treatment - free recovery period prior to mating .
Similar multigenerational findings were also seen in female rats pre - gestationally treated with escalating doses of 10 to 22 mg / kg / day morphine ( 1 . 6 to 3 . 6 times the HDD ) .
Lactation Risk Summary Morphine is present in breast milk .
Published lactation studies report variable concentrations of morphine in breast milk with administration of immediate - release morphine to nursing mothers in the early postpartum period with a milk - to - plasma morphine AUC ratio of 2 . 5 : 1 measured in one lactation study .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of morphine on the breastfed infant and the effects of morphine on milk production .
Lactation studies have not been conducted with Morphine Sulfate Injection , and no information is available on the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Morphine Sulfate Injection , and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Morphine Sulfate Injection , or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor infants exposed to Morphine Sulfate Injection , through breast milk for excess sedation and respiratory depression .
Withdrawal symptoms can occur in breastfed infants when maternal administration of morphine is stopped , or when breastfeeding is stopped .
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Chronic use of opioids may cause reduced fertility in females and males of reproductive potential .
It is not known whether these effects on fertility are reversible ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
In published animal studies , morphine administration adversely effected fertility and reproductive endpoints in male rats and prolonged estrus cycle in female rats ( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Morphine Sulfate Injection in pediatric patients below the age of 18 have not been established .
Geriatric Use The pharmacodynamic effects of morphine in the elderly are more variable than in the younger population .
Older patients will vary widely in the effective initial dose , rate of development of tolerance and the frequency and magnitude of associated adverse effects as the dose is increased .
Initial elderly patients ( aged 65 years or older ) may have increased sensitivity to morphine .
In general , use caution when selecting a dosage for an elderly patient , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids , and has occurred after large initial doses were administered to patients who were not opioid - tolerant or when opioids were co - administered with other agents that depress respiration .
Titrate the dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection slowly in geriatric patients and monitor closely for signs of CNS and respiratory depression ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Morphine is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Hepatic Impairment Morphine pharmacokinetics have been reported to be significantly altered in patients with cirrhosis .
Start these patients with a lower than normal dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection and titrate slowly while monitoring for signs of respiratory depression , sedation , and hypotension ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Renal Impairment Morphine pharmacokinetics are altered in patients with renal failure .
Start these patients with a lower than normal dosage of Morphine Sulfate Injection and titrate slowly while monitoring for signs of respiratory depression , sedation , and hypotension ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described , or described in greater detail , in other sections : • Addiction , Abuse , and Misuse ( see WARNINGS ) • Life - Threatening Respiratory Depression ( see WARNINGS ) • Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome ( see WARNINGS ) • Interactions with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants ( see WARNINGS ) • Cardiovascular Instability ( see WARNINGS ) • Adrenal Insufficiency ( see WARNINGS ) • Severe Hypotension ( see PRECAUTIONS ) • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions ( see PRECAUTIONS ) • Seizures ( see PRECAUTIONS ) • Withdrawal ( see WARNINGS ) The following adverse reactions associated with the use of morphine were identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Serious adverse reactions associated with Morphine Sulfate Injection included respiratory depression , apnea , and to a lesser degree , circulatory depression , respiratory arrest , shock , and cardiac arrest .
Rarely , anaphylactoid reactions have been reported when morphine or other phenanthrene alkaloids of opium are administered intravenously .
The most frequently observed adverse reactions included sedation , lightheadedness , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , constipation , and diaphoresis .
Lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea , vomiting and sweating seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those who are not suffering from severe pain .
In such individuals , lower doses are advisable .
Other possible adverse reactions included : CNS – Euphoria , dysphoria , weakness , headache , agitation , tremor , uncoordinated muscle movements , visual disturbances , transient hallucinations , disorientation , delirium , somnolence , drowsiness , miosis , pinpoint pupils , coma , insomnia , impairment of mental and physical performance , mental clouding , lethargy , anxiety , fear , psychic dependence , mood changes , confusion .
Gastrointestinal – Constipation , biliary tract spasm , dry mouth , anorexia .
Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis may experience increased colonic motility ; toxic dilatation has been reported in patients with acute ulcerative colitis .
Cardiovascular – Tachycardia , bradycardia , palpitation , faintness , syncope , orthostatic hypotension , peripheral circulatory collapse , hypotension , phlebitis following intravenous injection .
Genitourinary – Oliguria and urinary retention or hesitancy ; an antidiuretic effect has been reported ; ureteral spasm and spasm of vesical sphincters , reduced libido and / or potency .
Allergic – Pruritus , urticaria , skin rashes , edema , and ( rarely ) hemorrhagic urticaria .
Flare over the vein with intravenous injection may occur .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported following intravenous administration .
An isolated case of thrombocytopenia has been reported to be induced by morphine .
Other – Opioid - induced histamine release may be responsible for the flushing of the face , diaphoresis , and pruritus often seen with these drugs .
Wheals and urticaria at the site of injection are probably related to histamine release .
Local tissue irritation , pain , and induration have been reported following repeated subcutaneous injection .
Morphine may alter temperature regulation in susceptible individuals and will depress the cough reflex .
Serotonin syndrome : Cases of serotonin syndrome , a potentially life - threatening condition , have been reported during concomitant use of opioids with serotonergic drugs .
Adrenal insufficiency : Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use , more often following greater than one month of use .
Anaphylaxis : Anaphylaxis has been reported with ingredients contained in Morphine Sulfate Injection .
Androgen deficiency : Cases of androgen deficiency have occurred with chronic use of opioids ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance Morphine Sulfate Injection contains morphine , a Schedule II controlled substance .
Abuse Morphine Sulfate Injection contains morphine , a substance with a high potential for abuse similar to other opioids including fentanyl , hydromorphone , methadone , oxycodone , oxymorphone , and tapentadol .
Morphine Sulfate Injection can be abused and is subject to misuse , addiction , and criminal diversion ( see WARNINGS ) .
All patients treated with opioids require careful monitoring for signs of abuse and addiction , because use of opioid analgesic products carries the risk of addiction even under appropriate medical use .
Prescription drug abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a prescription drug , even once , for its rewarding psychological or physiological effects .
Drug addiction is a cluster of behavioral , cognitive , and physiological phenomena that develop after repeated substance use and includes : a strong desire to take the drug , difficulties in controlling its use , persisting in its use despite harmful consequences , a higher priority given to drug use than to other activities and obligations , increased tolerance , and sometimes a physical withdrawal .
" Drug - seeking " behavior is very common in persons with substance abuse disorders .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated " loss " of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions , and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
" Doctor shopping " ( visiting multiple prescribers to obtain additional prescriptions ) is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Preoccupation with achieving adequate pain relief can be appropriate behavior in a patient with poor pain control .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Health care providers should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction .
Morphine Sulfate Injection , like other opioids , can be diverted for non - medical use into illicit channels of distribution .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests , as required by state and federal law , is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
Dependence Both tolerance and physical dependence can develop during chronic opioid therapy .
Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Tolerance may occur to both the desired and undesired effects of drugs , and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Physical dependence results in withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation or a significant dosage reduction of a drug .
Withdrawal also may be precipitated through the administration of drugs with opioid antagonist activity ( e . g . , naloxone , nalmefene ) , mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics ( e . g . , pentazocine , butorphanol , nalbuphine ) , or partial agonists ( e . g . , buprenorphine ) .
Physical dependence may not occur to a clinically significant degree until after several days to weeks of continued opioid usage .
Morphine Sulfate Injection should not be abruptly discontinued in a physically - dependent patient .
If Morphine Sulfate Injection is abruptly discontinued in a physically - dependent patient , a withdrawal syndrome may occur .
Some or all of the following can characterize this syndrome : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other signs and symptoms also may develop , including , irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
Withdrawal should be treated in a hospital .
Usually , it is necessary only to provide supportive care with administration of a tranquilizer to suppress anxiety .
Severe symptoms of withdrawal may require administration of a replacement narcotic .
Infants born to mothers physically dependent on opioids will also be physically dependent and may exhibit respiratory difficulties and withdrawal signs ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
OVERDOSAGE Clinical Presentation Acute overdose with Morphine Sulfate Injection can be manifested by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , constricted pupils , and , in some cases , pulmonary edema , bradycardia , hypotension , partial or complete airway obstruction , atypical snoring , and death .
Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in overdose situations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
In severe overdosage , particularly by the intravenous route , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment of Overdose In case of overdose , priorities are the reestablishment of a patent and protected airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation , if needed .
Employ supportive measures ( including oxygen and vasopressors ) in the management of circulatory shock and pulmonary edema as indicated .
Cardiac arrest or arrhythmias will require advanced life - support techniques .
If depressed respiration is associated with muscular rigidity , an intravenous neuromuscular blocking agent may be required to facilitate assisted or controlled respiration .
The opioid antagonists , naloxone or nalmefene , are specific antidotes to respiratory depression resulting from opioid overdose .
For clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to morphine sulfate overdose , administer an opioid antagonist .
Opioid antagonists should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or circulatory depression secondary to morphine sulfate overdose .
Because the duration of opioid reversal is expected to be less than the duration of action of morphine in Morphine Sulfate Injection , carefully monitor the patient until spontaneous respiration is reliably re - established .
If the response to an opioid antagonist is suboptimal or only brief in nature , administer additional antagonist as directed by the product ' s prescribing information .
In an individual physically dependent on opioids , administration of the recommended dosage of the antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The severity of the withdrawal symptoms experienced will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of the antagonist administered .
If a decision is made to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , administration of the antagonist should begin with care and by titration with smaller than usual doses of the antagonist .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
In cases of oral overdose , the stomach should be evacuated by emesis or gastric lavage if treatment can be instituted within 2 hours following ingestion .
The patient should be observed closely for a rise in temperature or pulmonary complications that may signal the need for institution of antibiotic therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION THESE PRODUCTS ARE INTENDED FOR SLOW INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
RAPID INTRAVENOUS ADMINISTRATION MAY RESULT IN CHEST WALL RIGIDITY .
NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
For Relief of Pain and as Pre - anesthetic The usual adult dose of 10 mg every 4 hours , depending on the severity of the condition and the patient ' s response .
The usual individual dose range is 5 to 15 mg .
The usual daily dose range is 12 to 120 mg .
Usual Pediatric Dose Analgesic - Intravenous , 50 to 100 µg ( 0 . 05 to 0 . 1 mg ) per kg of body weight , administered very slowly .
Not to exceed 10 mg per dose .
For Open - Heart Surgery Large doses ( 0 . 5 to 3 mg / kg ) of morphine are administered intravenously as the sole anesthetic or with a suitable anesthetic agent .
The patients are given oxygen and cardiovascular function is not depressed by morphine , as long as adequate ventilation is maintained .
For Severe Chronic Pain Associated with Terminal Cancer Continuous Intravenous infusion Prior to the initiation of the morphine infusion ( in concentrations between 0 . 2 to 1 mg / mL ) , a loading dose of 15 mg or higher of morphine sulfate may be administered by intravenous push to alleviate pain .
The infusion dosage range is 0 . 8 mg / hr to 80 mg / hr , though doses of up to 144 mg / hr have been used .
Thus , for the 1 mg / mL solution , the infusion may be run from 0 . 8 mL / hr to 80 mL / hr , and for the 0 . 5 mg / mL solution , the infusion may be run from 1 . 6 mL / hr to 160 mL / hr .
A constant infusion rate must be maintained with an infusion pump in order to assure proper dosage control .
Care must be taken to avoid overdosage ( respiratory depression ) or abrupt cessation of therapy , which may give rise to withdrawal symptoms .
Administration of Morphine Sulfate Injection should be limited to use by those familiar with the management of respiratory depression .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
EXAMPLES OF INFUSION PREPARATION : Concentrate Diluent Final Concentration Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP Dextrose 5 % in Water Morphine Sulfate 25 mg / mL 10 mL 490 mL 0 . 5 mg / mL 20 mL 480 mL 1 . 0 mg / mL 40 mL 960 mL 1 . 0 mg / mL Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP 50 mg / mL 10 mL 990 mL 0 . 5 mg / mL 20 mL 980 mL 1 . 0 mg / mL HOW SUPPLIED Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP , is available in glass fliptop vials as follows : 25 mg / mL Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP , Preservative Free ( no bacteriostat or antioxidant added ) .
Single - dose vials .
[ 1 ] Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 1135 - 02 Carton of 1 Single - dose Fliptop Vial 250 mg / 10 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) 50 mg / mL Morphine Sulfate Injection , USP ( no bacteriostat added ) .
Single - dose vials .
null Unit of Sale Concentration NDC 0409 - 1134 - 03 Carton of 1 Single - dose Fliptop Vial 1 , 000 mg / 20 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) NDC 0409 - 1134 - 05 Carton of 1 Single - dose Fliptop Vial 2 , 500 mg / 50 mL ( 50 mg / mL ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
THESE PRODUCTS ARE INTENDED FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT INTENDED FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
[ 1 ] Contains no antimicrobial preservatives .
Storage Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Morphine sulfate solutions may darken with age .
Do not use if injection is darker than pale yellow , discolored in any other way , or contains a precipitate .
Do not heat - sterilize the Preservative Free ( antioxidant free ) formula .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 1040 - 4 . 0 Revised September 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mg / 20 mL Vial Label 20 mL Single - dose Fliptop Vial NDC 0409 - 1134 - 03 Rx only MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII 1000 mg / 20 mL * ( 50 mg / mL ) * FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
WARNING : Contains Sulfites Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mg / 20 mL Vial Carton 1 x 20 mL Single - dose Fliptop Vial NDC 0409 - 1134 - 03 Rx only MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII 1000 mg / 20 mL * ( 50 mg / mL ) * FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
WARNING : Contains Sulfites Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2500 mg / 50 mL Vial Label NDC 0409 - 1134 - 05 50 mL Single - dose Fliptop Vial Rx only MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII 2500 mg / 50 mL * ( 50 mg / mL * ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
WARNING : Contains Sulfites Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2500 mg / 20 mL Vial Carton 1 x 50 mL Single - dose Fliptop Vial NDC 0409 - 1134 - 05 Rx only MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII 2500 mg / 50 mL * ( 50 mg / mL * ) FOR INTRAVENOUS USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INTRATHECAL OR EPIDURAL USE .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
WARNING : Contains Sulfites Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mg Vial Label 10 mL Fill NDC 0409 - 1135 - 02 Single - dosage Fliptop Vial MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII ( 25 mg / mL ) * 250 mg * PRESERVATIVE FREE WARNING : MAY BE HABIT FORMING .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
Rx only HOSPIRA , INC . , LAKE FOREST , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 250 mg Vial Carton One Unit / NDC 0409 - 1135 - 02 10 mL Fill Single - dosage Fliptop Vial MORPHINE Sulfate Inj . , USP CII ( 25 mg / mL ) * 250 mg * Rx only PRESERVATIVE FREE WARNING : MAY BE HABIT FORMING .
CAUTION : FOR DILUTION ONLY .
NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION .
Hospira Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
