WELCOME TO THE OBAGI - C ® RX SYSTEM OF SKIN CARE PRODUCTS !
PATIENT INFORMATION For Topical Use Only Complete skin care regimen formulated with 4 % hydroquinone to reduce hyperpigmentation and other essential ingredients to help address the signs of skin aging caused by photoaging .
Please read this product information prior to use of the Obagi - C ® Rx System .
Any questions regarding your particular skin care regimen should be directed to your physician .
More information about the Obagi - C ® Rx System or other Obagi systems is available at our website at www . obagi . com .
PHYSICIAN PRESCRIBING INFORMATION Rx only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY 62032 - 106 - 10 Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Dry Skin Each gram of Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Dry Skin contains : Active : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg per g ) Inactives : ascorbic acid , propylene carbonate , propylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , water 62032 - 122 - 10 Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Oily Skin Each gram of Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum for Normal to Oily Skin contains : Active : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg per g ) Inactives : ascorbic acid , dipropylene glycol , fragrance , propylene carbonate , propylene glycol , SD alcohol - 39 - C , sodium lauryl sulfate , water 62032 - 105 - 36 Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Therapy Night Cream Each gram of Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Therapy Night Cream contains : Active : Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ( 40 mg per g ) Inactives : ascorbic acid , BHT , cetyl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glycerin , lactic acid , methylparaben , phenyl trimethicone , PPG - 2 myristyl ether propionate , propylparaben , saponins , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium metabisulfite , TEA - salicylate , tocopheryl acetate , water Description Hydroquinone is 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
Hydroquinone occurs as fine , white needles .
The drug is freely soluble in water and in alcohol .
Chemically , hydroquinone is designated as p - dihydroxybenzene ; the empirical formula is C6H6O2 ; molecular weight is 110 . 11 g per mol .
The chemical structure is in the diagram .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( DOPA ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the bleached areas , which may be prevented by the use of sunscreen agents contained in the Obagi - C ® Rx System Sun Shield Matte Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE The gradual bleaching of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A thin application should be applied once or twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If no improvement is seen after three ( 3 ) months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
Sun exposure should be limited by using a sunscreen agent or protective clothing to cover bleached skin when using and after using this product in order to prevent darkening from reoccurring .
WARNINGS • Hydroquinone is a skin - bleaching agent , which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this product .
• Test for skin sensitivity before using by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check within 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , the product should be discontinued and a physician consulted .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
• Avoid contact with eyes , nose , mouth , and lips .
In case of accidental contact , the patient should rinse thoroughly with water and contact a physician .
• Sunscreen use is an essential aspect of hydroquinone therapy because even minimal sunlight exposure sustains melanocytic activity .
The Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Therapy Night Cream contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS ( See WARNINGS . )
Treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation , which does not preclude treatment .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should be used on pregnant women only when clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
Caution is advised when topical hydroquinone is used by a nursing mother .
Pediatric Usage Safety and effectiveness in children , below the age of 12 years , have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic adverse reactions have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur , in which case the product should be discontinued and physician notified immediately .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Obagi Medical Products , a division of Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC , at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
CONTRAINDICATIONS People with prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients should not use it .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
HOW SUPPLIED Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ) for Normal to Dry Skin is available as follows : 1 fl .
oz .
( 30 mL ) bottle NDC 62032 - 106 - 10 Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Clarifying Serum ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ) for Normal to Oily Skin is available as follows : 1 fl .
oz .
( 30 mL ) bottle NDC 62032 - 122 - 10 Obagi - C ® Rx System C - Therapy Night Cream ( Hydroquinone , USP 4 % ) is available as follows : Net wt .
2 oz .
( 57 g ) bottle NDC 62032 - 105 - 36 Store at controlled room temperature : 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep out of direct sunlight .
Distributed by Obagi Cosmeceuticals LLC , Long Beach , CA 90806 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Carton OBAGI - C ® RX SYSTEM NDC # 62032 - 122 - 10 • NON - COMEDOGENIC NON - ACNEGENIC • C - CLARIFYING SERUM SKIN LIGHTENING SERUM WITH VITAMIN C 10 % HYDROQUINONE USP , 4 % RX ONLY FOR NORMAL TO OILY SKIN AM 1 fl .
oz .
( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
