20 mEq / liter Potassium Chloride in 5 % Dextrose Injection Rx only DESCRIPTION Potassium Chloride in Dextrose Injection , USP is a sterile and nonpyrogenic solution in water for injection .
This solution is for administration by intravenous infusion only .
See Table for summary of content and characteristics of this solution .
This solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
This solution is a parenteral fluid , nutrient and electrolyte replenisher .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose monohydrate ( C6H12O6 ∙ H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , this solution provides a source of water and potassium chloride with carbohydrate .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Intravenous solutions containing potassium chloride are particularly intended to provide needed potassium cation ( K + ) .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
A deficiency of either potassium , or chloride will lead to a deficit of the other .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated in patients requiring parenteral administration of potassium chloride with minimal carbohydrate calories .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing potassium chloride are contraindicated in diseases where high potassium levels may be encountered .
WARNINGS Solutions which contain potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
To avoid potassium intoxication , do not infuse these solutions rapidly .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency or adrenal insufficiency , administration of potassium chloride may cause potassium intoxication .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing potassium ions may result in potassium retention .
The intravenous administration of this solution can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Potassium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by serial electrocardiograms .
Plasma potassium levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
High plasma concentrations of potassium may cause death through cardiac depression , arrhythmias or arrest .
Potassium - containing solutions should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Care should be exercised to insure that the needle ( or catheter ) is well within the lumen of the vein and that extravasation does not occur .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with dextrose or potassium chloride .
It is also not known whether dextrose or potassium chloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Dextrose or potassium chloride should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolality and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solutions or technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea have been reported with potassium therapy .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , flaccid paralysis , listlessness , mental confusion , weakness and heaviness of the legs , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities such as disappearance of P waves , spreading and slurring of the QRS complex with development of a biphasic curve and cardiac arrest .
Potassium - containing solutions are intrinsically irritating to tissues .
Therefore , extreme care should be taken to avoid perivascular infiltration .
Local tissue necrosis and subsequent sloughing may result if extravasation occurs .
Chemical phlebitis and venospasm have also been reported .
Should perivascular infiltration occur , I . V . administration at that site should be discontinued at once .
Local infiltration of the affected area with procaine hydrochloride , 1 % , to which hyaluronidase may be added , will often reduce venospasm and dilute the potassium remaining in the tissues locally .
Local application of heat may also be helpful .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of potassium overdosage , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute intensive corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution should be administered only by intravenous infusion and as directed by the physician .
The dose and rate of injection are dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
If the serum potassium level is greater than 2 . 5 mEq / liter , potassium should be given at a rate not to exceed 10 mEq / hour in a concentration less than 30 mEq / liter .
Somewhat faster rates and greater concentrations ( usually up to 40 mEq / liter ) of potassium may be indicated in patients with more severe potassium deficiency .
The total 24 - hour dose should not generally exceed 200 mEq of potassium .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE To Open Tear outer wrap at notch and remove solution container .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
To Add Medication • Prepare additive port .
• Using aseptic technique and an additive delivery needle of appropriate length , puncture resealable additive port at target area , inner diaphragm and inject .
Withdraw needle after injecting medication .
• The additive port may be protected by covering with an additive cap .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration ( Use aseptic technique ) • Close flow control clamp of administration set .
• Remove cover from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Insert piercing pin of administration set into port with a twisting motion until the set is firmly seated .
NOTE : When using a vented administration set , replace bacterial retentive air filter with piercing pin cover .
Insert piercing pin with twisting motion until shoulder of air filter housing rests against the outlet port flange .
• Suspend container from hanger .
• Squeeze and release drip chamber to establish proper fluid level in chamber .
• Attach venipuncture device to set .
• Open clamp to expel air from set and venipuncture device .
Close clamp .
• Perform venipuncture .
• Regulate rate of administration with flow control clamp .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
HOW SUPPLIED Potassium Chloride in Dextrose Injection , USP solution is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers .
See Table : Table of Contents and Characteristics Grams / 100 mL Per 1000 mL mEq Potassium Size ( mL ) NDC No .
Dextrose Hydrous Potassium Chloride Potassium ( K + ) Chloride ( Cl ¯ ) Caloric Value Calculated Osmolarity ( mOsmol ) Tonicity pH 20 mEq 1000 0409 – 7905 – 09 5 0 . 149 20 mEq 20 mEq 170 292 isotonic 4 . 3 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) 20 mEq 1000 0990 – 7905 – 09 5 0 . 149 20 mEq 20 mEq 170 292 isotonic 4 . 3 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
May contain HCl for pH adjustment .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : March , 2020 IFU0000169 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bag Label 20 mEq POTASSIUM 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 7905 - 09 20 mEq Potassium Chloride in 5 % Dextrose Inj . , USP EACH 100 mL CONTAINS POTASSIUM CHLORIDE 149 mg ; DEXTROSE , HYDROUS 5 g IN WATER FOR INJECTION .
MAY CONTAIN HCl FOR pH ADJUSTMENT .
ELECTROLYTES PER 1000 mL ( NOT INCLUDING IONS FOR pH ADJUSTMENT ) : POTASSIUM 20 mEq ; CHLORIDE 20 mEq .
292 mOsmol / LITER ( CALC ) .
pH 4 . 3 ( 3 . 5 TO 6 . 5 ) ADDITIVES MAY BE INCOMPATIBLE .
CONSULT WITH PHARMACIST , IF AVAILABLE .
WHEN INTRODUCING ADDITIVES , USE ASEPTIC TECHNIQUE , MIX THOROUGHLY AND DO NOT STORE .
SINGLE - DOSE CONTAINER .
FOR I . V . USE .
USUAL DOSAGE : SEE INSERT .
STERILE , NONPYROGENIC .
USE ONLY IF SOLUTION IS CLEAR AND CONTAINER IS UNDAMAGED .
MUST NOT BE USED IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Rx ONLY 3 v CONTAINS DEHP IMP0000051 ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
