DESCRIPTION Chemically , oxybutynin chloride is 4 - ( Diethylamino ) - 2 - butynyl ( ± ) - α - phenylcyclohexaneglycolate hydrochloride .
The molecular formula of oxybutynin chloride is C22H31NO3 • HCl .
The structural formula appears below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin chloride is a white crystalline solid with a molecular weight of 393 . 96 .
It is readily soluble in water and acids , but relatively insoluble in alkalis .
Each 5 mL , for oral administration , contains 5 mg of oxybutynin chloride .
In addition , the following inactive ingredients are present : Artificial raspberry flavor ; citric acid , USP ; D & C Yellow No . 10 ; FD & C Blue No . 1 ; glycerin , USP ; liquid sugar ; methylparaben , NF ; propylene glycol , USP ; sodium citrate , USP and sorbitol solution , USP .
Therapeutic Category : Antispasmodic , anticholinergic .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oxybutynin chloride exerts direct antispasmodic effect on smooth muscle and inhibits the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle .
Oxybutynin chloride exhibits only one fifth of the anticholinergic activity of atropine on the rabbit detrusor muscle , but four to ten times the antispasmodic activity .
No blocking effects occur at skeletal neuromuscular junctions or autonomic ganglia ( antinicotinic effects ) .
Oxybutynin chloride relaxes bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary bladder contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin chloride increases bladder ( vesical ) capacity , diminishes the frequency of uninhibited contractions of the detrusor muscle , and delays the initial desire to void .
Oxybutynin chloride thus decreases urgency and the frequency of both incontinent episodes and voluntary urination .
Oxybutynin chloride was well tolerated in patients administered the drug in controlled studies of 30 days duration and in uncontrolled studies in which some patients received the drug for 2 years .
Pharmacokinetic information is not currently available .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Oxybutynin chloride syrup is indicated for the relief of symptoms of bladder instability associated with voiding in patients with uninhibited neurogenic or reflex neurogenic bladder ( ie , urgency , frequency , urinary leakage , urge incontinence , dysuria ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Oxybutynin chloride is contraindicated in patients with untreated angle closure glaucoma and in patients with untreated narrow anterior chamber angles since anticholinergic drugs may aggravate these conditions .
It is also contraindicated in partial or complete obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract , paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient , megacolon , toxic megacolon complicating ulcerative colitis , severe colitis , and myasthenia gravis .
It is contraindicated in patients with obstructive uropathy and in patients with unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage .
Oxybutynin chloride is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the product .
WARNINGS Oxybutynin chloride , when administered in the presence of a high environmental temperature , can cause heat prostration ( fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy , or colostomy .
In this instance treatment with oxybutynin chloride would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Oxybutynin chloride may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be cautioned regarding activities requiring mental alertness such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery or performing hazardous work while taking this drug .
Alcohol or other sedative drugs may enhance the drowsiness caused by oxybutynin chloride .
PRECAUTIONS Oxybutynin chloride should be used with caution in the elderly and in all patients with autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease .
Oxybutynin chloride may aggravate the symptoms of hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , hiatal hernia , tachycardia , hypertension , and prostatic hypertrophy .
Administration of oxybutynin chloride to patients with ulcerative colitis may suppress intestinal motility to the point of producing a paralytic ileus and precipitate or aggravate toxic megacolon , a serious complication of the disease .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages up to approximately 400 times the recommended human dosage showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies in the hamster , rabbit , rat , and mouse have shown no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies in the hamster , rabbit , rat , and mouse have shown no definite evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the animal fetus .
The safety of oxybutynin chloride administered to women who are or who may become pregnant has not been established .
Therefore , oxybutynin chloride should not be given to pregnant women unless , in the judgment of the physician , the probable clinical benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when oxybutynin chloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of oxybutynin chloride administration have been demonstrated for pediatric patients 5 years of age and older ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
However , as there is insufficient clinical data for pediatric patients under age 5 , oxybutynin chloride is not recommended for this age group .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Following administration of oxybutynin chloride , the symptoms that can be associated with the use of other anticholinergic drugs may occur : Cardiovascular : Palpitations , tachycardia , vasodilatation Dermatologic : Decreased sweating , rash Gastrointestinal / Genitourinary : Constipation , decreased gastrointestinal motility , dry mouth , nausea , urinary hesitance and retention Nervous System : Asthenia , dizziness , drowsiness , hallucinations , insomnia , restlessness Ophthalmic : Amblyopia , cycloplegia , decreased lacrimation , mydriasis Other : Impotence , suppression of lactation OVERDOSAGE The symptoms of overdosage with oxybutynin chloride may be any of those seen with other anticholinergic agents .
Symptoms may include signs of central nervous system excitation ( eg , restlessness , tremor , irritability , convulsions , delirium , hallucinations ) , flushing , fever , nausea , vomiting , tachycardia , hypotension or hypertension , respiratory failure , paralysis , and coma .
In the event of an overdose or exaggerated response , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Maintain respiration and induce emesis or perform gastric lavage ( emesis is contraindicated in precomatose patients , convulsive or psychotic state ) .
Activated charcoal may be administered as well as a cathartic .
Physostigmine may be considered to reverse symptoms of anticholinergic intoxication .
Hyperpyrexia may be treated symptomatically with ice bags or other cold applications and sponges .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults The usual dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) syrup two to three times a day .
The maximum recommended dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) syrup four times a day .
Children over 5 years of age The usual dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) two times a day .
The maximum recommended dose is one teaspoonful ( 5 mg / 5 mL ) three times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 68151 - 9200 NDC : 68151 - 9200 - 1 5 mL in a SYRINGE , PLASTIC Rx Only Product No . : 8092 Manufactured By : Morton Grove Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Morton Grove , IL 60053 A50 - 8092 - 16 REV . 11 - 04 OXYBUTYNIN CHLORIDE SYRUP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
