SOH Fig Tree Hand Sanitiser This luxury hand sanitiser is formulated with 75 % alcohol together with Vitamin E , Aloe Leaf Juice and our Fig Tree parfum .
Created to sanitise your hands , rid them of germs and leave your hands feeling fresh , hydrated and clean .
Hand hygiene and the health of our hands is routinely needed to keep our bodies free from germs .
The added benefit of our Fig Tree fragrance will make you feel invigorated and luxurious and confident of clean hands .
The added element of Vitamin E and Aloe Barbadenis juice will keep your hands soft and moisturised .
Apply 1 pump on the palm of your hands .
Massage into the back of your hands fingertips until dry .
Repeat when necessary .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes . If eye contact occurs immediately flush with water .
To ensure skin compatibility test product on a small patch of skin .
Store out of reach of Children , If skin irritation occurs discontinue and seek medical advice .
Do not use on extremely damaged skin .
Contains 75 % Alcohol v / v .
Made in Australia Ingredients : Alcohol ( 75 % ) , aqua ( water ) , parfum ( fragrance ) , acrylates / C10 - 30 , alkylacrylate , crosspolymer , natural vitamin E ( tocopherol ) , aminomethylpropanol , coumarin , linalool , citral , methyl ionene , mixed isomers , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , glycerin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients aqua ( water ) , parfum ( fragrance ) , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , natural vitamin E ( tocopherol ) , aminomethylpropanol , coumarin , linalool , citral , methyl ionene , mixed isomers , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , glycerin .
500 ml Hand Sanitiser 500 ml NDC : 78353 - 726 - 35 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 100 ml Hand Sanitiser 100 ml NDC : 78353 - 726 - 34 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
