Directions Apply to sanitize any hard surface quickly and effectively .
Thouroughly cover the surface with sanitizing solution .
If the surface needs to be dried , wait 15 seconds , then wipe dry .
May be diluted 5 : 1 .
Warnings Keep out of reach of children Uses : • [ MULTIMEDIA ] Washing and peeling fruits and vegetables • Acid - modification in food starch • Indirect food additives • Sanitizing solution for food contact surfaces and articles - approved substance utilized to control the growth of Microorganisms ( CFR 2 Sec 178 . 1010 ) for food contact surfaces , processing equipment , utencils , and hard non - porous surfaces • Hospitals , restaurants , food processing , factory , stadium , schools , fleet services , transportation vehicles , office space [ MULTIMEDIA ] Storage and Handling Keep out of direct sunlight and do not freeze .
No special handling or disposal precautions .
Biodegradable and environmentally safe .
Inactive Ingredients Water 99 . 98 % Other Information At a pH of 6 . 0 - 7 . 5 ( neutral ) , EW ( ORP = 750 mV ) contains primarily hypochlorous acid , hypochlorite ion and trace amounts of chlorine .
The effectiveness of neutral EW as a sanitizer has been demonstrated for reducing Escherichia coli O157 : H7 , Salmonella enteritidis and Listeria monocytogenes biofilms on the surface of tomato ( Deza et al . , 2003 ) and also on plastic and wooden cutting boards ( Deza et al . , 2007 ) Deza , M . A . , Araujo , M . and Garrido , M . J . ( 2003 ) Inactivation of Escherichia coli O157 : H7 , Salmonella enteritidis and Listeria monocytogenes on the surface of tomatoes by neutral electrolyzed water , Letters of Applied Microbiology , 37 , pp . 482 - 487 .
Deza , M . A . , Araujo , M . and Garrido , M . J . ( 2007 ) Efficacy of neutral electrolyzed water to inactivate Escherichia coli , Listeria monocytogenes , Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphyloccoccus aureus on plastic and wooden kitchen cutting boards , Journal of Food Protection , 70 : 1 , pp . 102 - 108 Dosage & Administration Purpose Sanitizing & Deodorizing Active Ingredient [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hypochlourous Acid 0 . 025 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings Keep out of reach of children Package Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
