This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
When using this product do not use in or near the eye .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on your palm to cover all surfaces and rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • May discolor certain fabrics or surface Inactive ingredients Water , Butylene Glycol , Glycerin , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Menthol , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf , Sodium Hyaluronate , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol Package Label - Principal Display Panel 500 mL NDC : 77201 - 002 - 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
