The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients or higher in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations with slight concentration modifications : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 70 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 5 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 126 % v / v ) .
• Distilled water .
• Aloe .
• Essential oil .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer & Surface Disinfectant Use Hand Sanitize and surface disinfectantr to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Hands : Spray product in your palm .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Surface : Spray product 6 - 8 inches from surface until thoroughly wet .
Wait about 10 seconds then wipe dry .
Do not air dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • May cause surface paint or fabric discoloration Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , distilled water , aloe , essential oil Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 946 ml NDC : 77509 - 070 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
