INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Terbinafine tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenail or fingernail due to dermatophytes ( tinea unguium ) .
Prior to initiating treatment , appropriate nail specimens for laboratory testing [ potassium hydroxide ( KOH ) preparation , fungal culture , or nail biopsy ] should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis of onychomycosis .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Fingernail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet once daily for 6 weeks .
Toenail onychomycosis : One 250 mg tablet once daily for 12 weeks .
The optimal clinical effect is seen some months after mycological cure and cessation of treatment .
This is related to the period required for outgrowth of healthy nail .
DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS SECTION Tablet , 250 mg white , circular biconvex tablets debossed with " C134 " on one side and plain on the other side .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Terbinafine tablets , USP are contraindicated in individuals with a history of allergic reaction to oral terbinafine because of the risk of anaphylaxis .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS SECTION • 5 . 1 Hepatotoxicity Cases of liver failure , some leading to liver transplant or death , have occurred with the use of terbinafine tablets in individuals with and without preexisting liver disease .
In the majority of liver cases reported in association with use of terbinafine tablets , the patients had serious underlying systemic conditions .
The severity of hepatic events and / or their outcome may be worse in patients with active or chronic liver disease .
Treatment with terbinafine tablets should be discontinued if biochemical or clinical evidence of liver injury develops .
Terbinafine tablets are not recommended for patients with chronic or active liver disease .
Before prescribing terbinafine tablets , liver function tests should be performed since hepatotoxicity may occur in patients with and without pre - existing liver disease .
Periodic monitoring of liver function tests is recommended .
Terbinafine hydrochloride should be immediately discontinued in case of elevation of liver function tests .
Patients prescribed terbinafine tablets should be warned to report immediately to their physician any symptoms of persistent nausea , anorexia , fatigue , vomiting , right upper abdominal pain or jaundice , dark urine , or pale stools .
Patients with these symptoms should discontinue taking oral terbinafine , and the patient ' s liver function should be immediately evaluated .
5 . 2 Taste Disturbance Including Loss of Taste Taste disturbance , including taste loss , has been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
It can be severe enough to result in decreased food intake , weight loss , anxiety , and depressive symptoms .
Taste disturbance may resolve within several weeks after discontinuation of treatment , but may be prolonged ( greater than 1 year ) , or may be permanent .
If symptoms of a taste disturbance occur , terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 3 Smell Disturbance Including Loss of Smell Smell disturbance , including loss of smell , has been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
Smell disturbance may resolve after discontinuation of treatment , but may be prolonged ( greater than 1 year ) , or may be permanent .
If symptoms of a smell disturbance occur , terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 4 Depressive Symptoms Depressive symptoms have occurred during postmarketing use of terbinafine tablets .
Prescribers should be alert to the development of depressive symptoms , and patients should be instructed to report depressive symptoms to their physician .
5 . 5 Hematologic Effects Transient decreases in absolute lymphocyte counts ( ALCs ) have been observed in controlled clinical trials .
In placebo - controlled trials , 8 / 465 terbinafine hydrochloride - treated subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) and 3 / 137 placebo - treated subjects ( 2 . 2 % ) had decreases in ALC to below 1000 / mm3 on 2 or more occasions .
In patients with known or suspected immunodeficiency , physicians should consider monitoring complete blood counts if treatment continues for more than 6 weeks .
Cases of severe neutropenia have been reported .
These were reversible upon discontinuation of terbinafine tablets , with or without supportive therapy .
If clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of secondary infection occur , a complete blood count should be obtained .
If the neutrophil count is ≤ 1000 cells / mm3 , terbinafine tablets should be discontinued and supportive management started .
5 . 6 Serious Skin / Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of serious skin / hypersensitivity reactions [ e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , and bullous dermatitis , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) syndrome ] .
Manifestations of DRESS syndrome may include cutaneous reaction ( such as rash or exfoliative dermatitis ) , eosinophilia , and one or more organ complications such as hepatitis , pneumonitis , nephritis , myocarditis , and pericarditis .
If progressive skin rash or signs / symptoms of the above drug reactions occur , treatment with terbinafine tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 7 Lupus Erythematosus During postmarketing experience , precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus have been reported in patients taking terbinafine tablets .
Terbinafine tablets should be discontinued in patients with clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of lupus erythematosus .
5 . 8 Laboratory Monitoring Measurement of serum transaminases ( ALT and AST ) is advised for all patients before taking terbinafine tablets .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION • 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most frequently reported adverse events observed in the 3 US / Canadian placebo - controlled trials are listed in the table below .
The adverse events reported encompass gastrointestinal symptoms ( including diarrhea , dyspepsia , and abdominal pain ) , liver test abnormalities , rashes , urticaria , pruritus , and taste disturbances .
Changes in the ocular lens and retina have been reported following the use of terbinafine tablets in controlled trials .
The clinical significance of these changes is unknown .
In general , the adverse events were mild , transient , and did not lead to discontinuation from study participation .
Adverse Event Discontinuation Terbinafine tablets ( % ) n = 465 Placebo ( % ) n = 137 Terbinafine tablets ( % ) n = 465 Placebo ( % ) n = 137 * Liver enzyme abnormalities ≥ 2 × the upper limit of normal range .
Headache 12 . 9 9 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Gastrointestinal Symptoms : Diarrhea 5 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 6 0 . 0 Dyspepsia 4 . 3 2 . 9 0 . 4 0 . 0 Abdominal Pain 2 . 4 1 . 5 0 . 4 0 . 0 Nausea 2 . 6 2 . 9 0 . 2 0 . 0 Flatulence 2 . 2 2 . 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 Dermatological Symptoms : Rash 5 . 6 2 . 2 0 . 9 0 . 7 Pruritus 2 . 8 1 . 5 0 . 2 0 . 0 Urticaria 1 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 Liver Enzyme Abnormalities * 3 . 3 1 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 0 Taste Disturbance 2 . 8 0 . 7 0 . 2 0 . 0 Visual Disturbance 1 . 1 1 . 5 0 . 9 0 . 0 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of terbinafine tablets .
Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and lymphatic system disorders : Pancytopenia , agranulocytosis , severe neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] Immune system disorders : Serious hypersensitivity reactions e . g . , angioedema and allergic reactions ( including anaphylaxis ) , precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] , serum sickness - like reaction Psychiatric disorders : Anxiety and depressive symptoms independent of taste disturbance have been reported with use of terbinafine tablets .
In some cases , depressive symptoms have been reported to subside with discontinuance of therapy and to recur with reinstitution of therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] Nervous system disorders : Cases of taste disturbance , including taste loss , have been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
It can be severe enough to result in decreased food intake , weight loss , anxiety , and depressive symptoms .
Cases of smell disturbance , including smell loss , have been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 and 5 . 3 ) ] .
Cases of paresthesia and hypoesthesia have been reported with the use of terbinafine tablets .
Eye disorders : Visual field defects , reduced visual acuity Ear and labyrinth disorders : Hearing impairment , vertigo , tinnitus Vascular disorders : Vasculitis Gastrointestinal disorders : Pancreatitis , vomiting Hepatobiliary disorders : Cases of liver failure some leading to liver transplant or death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] , idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatic injury .
Cases of hepatitis , cholestasis , and increased hepatic enzymes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] have been seen with the use of terbinafine tablets .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : Serious skin reactions [ e . g . , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , erythema multiforme , exfoliative dermatitis , and bullous dermatitis , and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) syndrome ] [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] , acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis , psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis , photosensitivity reactions , hair loss Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : Rhabdomyolysis , arthralgia , myalgia General disorders and administration site conditions : Malaise , fatigue , influenza - like illness , pyrexia Investigations : Altered prothrombin time ( prolongation and reduction ) in patients concomitantly treated with warfarin and increased blood creatine phosphokinase have been reported .
DRUG INTERACTIONS SECTION • 7 . 1 Drug - Drug Interactions In vivo studies have shown that terbinafine is an inhibitor of the CYP450 2D6 isozyme .
Drugs predominantly metabolized by the CYP450 2D6 isozyme include the following drug classes : tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , beta - blockers , antiarrhythmics class 1 C ( e . g . , flecainide and propafenone ) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors Type B . Coadministration of terbinafine tablets should be done with careful monitoring and may require a reduction in dose of the 2D6 - metabolized drug .
In a study to assess the effects of terbinafine on desipramine in healthy volunteers characterized as normal metabolizers , the administration of terbinafine resulted in a 2 - fold increase in Cmax and a 5 - fold increase in area under the curve ( AUC ) .
In this study , these effects were shown to persist at the last observation at 4 weeks after discontinuation of terbinafine tablets .
In studies in healthy subjects characterized as extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan ( antitussive drug and CYP2D6 probe substrate ) , terbinafine increases the dextromethorphan / dextrorphan metabolite ratio in urine by 16 - to 97 - fold on average .
Thus , terbinafine may convert extensive CYP2D6 metabolizers to poor metabolizer status .
In vitro studies with human liver microsomes showed that terbinafine does not inhibit the metabolism of tolbutamide , ethinylestradiol , ethoxycoumarin , cyclosporine , cisapride and fluvastatin .
In vivo drug - drug interaction studies conducted in healthy volunteer subjects showed that terbinafine does not affect the clearance of antipyrine or digoxin .
Terbinafine decreases the clearance of caffeine by 19 % .
Terbinafine increases the clearance of cyclosporine by 15 % .
The influence of terbinafine on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole , cotrimoxazole ( trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole ) , zidovudine or theophylline was not considered to be clinically significant .
Coadministration of a single dose of fluconazole ( 100 mg ) with a single dose of terbinafine resulted in a 52 % and 69 % increase in terbinafine Cmax and AUC , respectively .
Fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A enzymes .
Based on this finding , it is likely that other inhibitors of both CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , amiodarone ) may also lead to a substantial increase in the systemic exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) of terbinafine when concomitantly administered .
There have been spontaneous reports of increase or decrease in prothrombin times in patients concomitantly taking oral terbinafine and warfarin , however , a causal relationship between terbinafine tablets and these changes has not been established .
Terbinafine clearance is increased 100 % by rifampin , a CYP450 enzyme inducer , and decreased 33 % by cimetidine , a CYP450 enzyme inhibitor .
Terbinafine clearance is unaffected by cyclosporine .
There is no information available from adequate drug - drug interaction studies with the following classes of drugs : oral contraceptives , hormone replacement therapies , hypoglycemics , phenytoins , thiazide diuretics , and calcium channel blockers .
7 . 2 Food Interactions An evaluation of the effect of food on terbinafine tablets was conducted .
An increase of less than 20 % of the AUC of terbinafine was observed when terbinafine tablets were administered with food .
Terbinafine tablets can be taken with or without food .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS SECTION • 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , and because treatment of onychomycosis can be postponed until after pregnancy is completed , it is recommended that terbinafine tablets not be initiated during pregnancy .
Oral reproduction studies have been performed in rabbits and rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day [ 12 × to 23 × the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , in rabbits and rats , respectively , based on body surface area ( BSA ) comparisons ] and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to terbinafine .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers After oral administration , terbinafine is present in breast milk of nursing mothers .
The ratio of terbinafine in milk to plasma is 7 : 1 .
Treatment with terbinafine tablets is not recommended in women who are nursing .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of terbinafine tablets have not been established in pediatric patients with onychomycosis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of terbinafine tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than or equal to 50 mL / min ) the use of terbinafine tablets has not been adequately studied .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION Clinical experience regarding overdose with oral terbinafine is limited .
Doses up to 5 grams ( 20 times the therapeutic daily dose ) have been taken without inducing serious adverse reactions .
The symptoms of overdose included nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , dizziness , rash , frequent urination , and headache .
DESCRIPTION SECTION • Terbinafine tablets , USP contain the synthetic allylamine antifungal compound terbinafine hydrochloride USP .
Chemically , terbinafine hydrochloride is ( E ) - N - ( 6 , 6 - dimethyl - 2 - hepten - 4 - ynyl ) - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethanamine hydrochloride .
The empirical formula C21H26CIN with a molecular weight of 327 . 90 , and the following structural formula : Terbinafine hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white fine crystalline powder .
It is freely soluble in methanol and methylene chloride , soluble in ethanol , and slightly soluble in water .
Each tablet contains : Active Ingredients : terbinafine hydrochloride , USP ( equivalent to 250 mg base ) Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide NF , hypromellose USP , magnesium stearate NF , microcrystalline cellulose NF , and sodium starch glycolate NF .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION • 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Terbinafine is an allylamine antifungal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The pharmacodynamics of terbinafine tablets is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following oral administration , terbinafine is well absorbed ( > 70 % ) and the bioavailability of terbinafine tablets as a result of first - pass metabolism is approximately 40 % .
Peak plasma concentrations of 1 μg / mL appear within 2 hours after a single 250 mg dose ; the AUC is approximately 4 . 56 μg . h / mL .
An increase in the AUC of terbinafine of less than 20 % is observed when terbinafine tablets are administered with food .
In plasma , terbinafine is > 99 % bound to plasma proteins and there are no specific binding sites .
At steady - state , in comparison to a single dose , the peak concentration of terbinafine is 25 % higher and plasma AUC increases by a factor of 2 . 5 ; the increase in plasma AUC is consistent with an effective half - life of ~ 36 hours .
Terbinafine is distributed to the sebum and skin .
A terminal half - life of 200 – 400 hours may represent the slow elimination of terbinafine from tissues such as skin and adipose .
Prior to excretion , terbinafine is extensively metabolized by at least 7 CYP isoenzymes with major contributions from CYP2C9 , CYP1A2 , CYP3A4 , CYP2C8 , and CYP2C19 .
No metabolites have been identified that have antifungal activity similar to terbinafine .
Approximately 70 % of the administered dose is eliminated in the urine .
In patients with renal impairment ( creatinine clearance ≤ 50 mL / min ) or hepatic cirrhosis , the clearance of terbinafine is decreased by approximately 50 % compared to normal volunteers .
No effect of gender on the blood levels of terbinafine was detected in clinical trials .
No clinically relevant age - dependent changes in steady - state plasma concentrations of terbinafine have been reported .
12 . 4 Microbiology Terbinafine , an allylamine antifungal , inhibits biosynthesis of ergosterol , an essential component of fungal cell membrane , via inhibition of squalene epoxidase enzyme .
This results in fungal cell death primarily due to the increased membrane permeability mediated by the accumulation of high concentrations of squalene but not due to ergosterol deficiency .
Depending on the concentration of the drug and the fungal species test in vitro , terbinafine hydrochloride may be fungicidal .
However , the clinical significance of in vitro data is unknown .
Terbinafine has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections : Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton rubrum The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
In vitro , terbinafine exhibits satisfactory MIC ' s against most strains of the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and efficacy of terbinafine in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : Candida albicans Epidermophyton floccosum Scopulariopsis brevicaulis NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY SECTION • 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 28 - month oral carcinogenicity study in rats , an increase in the incidence of liver tumors was observed in males at the highest dose tested , 69 mg / kg / day ( 2 × the MRHD based on AUC comparisons of the parent terbinafine ) ; however , even though dose - limiting toxicity was not achieved at the highest tested dose , higher doses were not tested .
The results of a variety of in vitro ( mutations in E . coli and S . typhimurium , DNA repair in rat hepatocytes , mutagenicity in Chinese hamster fibroblasts , chromosome aberration , and sister chromatid exchanges in Chinese hamster lung cells ) , and in vivo ( chromosome aberration in Chinese hamsters , micronucleus test in mice ) genotoxicity tests gave no evidence of a mutagenic or clastogenic potential .
Oral reproduction studies in rats at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 × the MRHD based on BSA comparisons ) did not reveal any specific effects on fertility or other reproductive parameters .
Intravaginal application of terbinafine hydrochloride at 150 mg / day in pregnant rabbits did not increase the incidence of abortions or premature deliveries nor affect fetal parameters .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology A wide range of in vivo studies in mice , rats , dogs , and monkeys , and in vitro studies using rat , monkey , and human hepatocytes suggest that peroxisome proliferation in the liver is a rat - specific finding .
However , other effects , including increased liver weights and APTT , occurred in dogs and monkeys at doses giving Css trough levels of the parent terbinafine 2 – 3 × those seen in humans at the MRHD .
Higher doses were not tested .
CLINICAL STUDIES SECTION The efficacy of terbinafine tablets in the treatment of onychomycosis is illustrated by the response of subjects with toenail and / or fingernail infections who participated in 3 US / Canadian placebo - controlled clinical trials .
Results of the first toenail trial , as assessed at week 48 ( 12 weeks of treatment with 36 weeks follow - up after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure , defined as simultaneous occurrence of negative KOH plus negative culture , in 70 % of subjects .
Fifty - nine percent ( 59 % ) of subjects experienced effective treatment ( mycological cure plus 0 % nail involvement or > 5 mm of new unaffected nail growth ) ; 38 % of subjects demonstrated mycological cure plus clinical cure ( 0 % nail involvement ) .
In a second toenail trial of dermatophytic onychomycosis , in which nondermatophytes were also cultured , similar efficacy against the dermatophytes was demonstrated .
The pathogenic role of the nondermatophytes cultured in the presence of dermatophytic onychomycosis has not been established .
The clinical significance of this association is unknown .
Results of the fingernail trial , as assessed at week 24 ( 6 weeks of treatment with 18 weeks follow - up after completion of therapy ) , demonstrated mycological cure in 79 % of subjects , effective treatment in 75 % of the subjects , and mycological cure plus clinical cure in 59 % of the subjects .
The mean time to overall success was approximately 10 months for the first toenail trial and 4 months for the fingernail trial .
In the first toenail trial , for subjects evaluated at least 6 months after achieving clinical cure and at least 1 year after completing therapy with terbinafine tablets , the clinical relapse rate was approximately 15 % .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
