[ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Pentoxifylline extended - release tablets , USP for oral administration contain 400 mg of the active drug and the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide in an extended - release formulation .
Pentoxifylline is a tri - substituted xanthine derivative designated chemically as 3 , 7 - Dihydro - 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 1 - ( 5 - oxohexyl ) - 1 H - purine - 2 , 6 - dione that , unlike theophylline , is a hemorrheologic agent , i . e . , an agent that affects blood viscosity .
Pentoxifylline is soluble in water and ethanol , and sparingly soluble in toluene .
The molecular formula is C13H18N4O3 and its molecular weight is 278 . 31 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] USP Dissolution Test 9 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mode of Action Pentoxifylline and its metabolites improve the flow properties of blood by decreasing its viscosity .
In patients with chronic peripheral arterial disease , this increases blood flow to the affected microcirculation and enhances tissue oxygenation .
The precise mode of action of pentoxifylline and the sequence of events leading to clinical improvement are still to be defined .
Pentoxifylline administration has been shown to produce dose - related hemorrheologic effects , lowering blood viscosity , and improving erythrocyte flexibility .
Leukocyte properties of hemorrheologic importance have been modified in animal and in vitro human studies .
Pentoxifylline has been shown to increase leukocyte deformability and to inhibit neutrophil adhesion and activation .
Tissue oxygen levels have been shown to be significantly increased by therapeutic doses of pentoxifylline in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism After oral administration in aqueous solution pentoxifylline is almost completely absorbed .
It undergoes a first - pass effect and the various metabolites appear in plasma very soon after dosing .
Peak plasma levels of the parent compound and its metabolites are reached within 1 hour .
The major metabolites are Metabolite 1 ( 1 - [ 5 - hydroxyhexyl ] - 3 , 7 - dimethylxanthine ) and Metabolite V ( 1 - [ 3 - carboxypropyl ] - 3 , 7 - dimethylxanthine ) , and plasma levels of these metabolites are 5 and 8 times greater , respectively , than pentoxifylline .
Following oral administration of aqueous solutions containing 100 to 400 mg of pentoxifylline , the pharmacokinetics of the parent compound and Metabolite 1 are dose - related and not proportional ( non - linear ) , with half - life and area under the blood - level time curve ( AUC ) increasing with dose .
The elimination kinetics of Metabolite V are not dose - dependent .
The apparent plasma half - life of pentoxifylline varies from 0 . 4 to 0 . 8 hours and the apparent plasma half - lives of its metabolites vary from 1 to 1 . 6 hours .
There is no evidence of accumulation or enzyme induction ( Cytochrome P450 ) following multiple oral doses .
Excretion is almost totally urinary ; the main biotransformation product is Metabolite V . Essentially no parent drug is found in the urine .
Despite large variations in plasma levels of parent compound and its metabolites , the urinary recovery of Metabolite V is consistent and shows dose proportionality .
Less than 4 % of the administered dose is recovered in feces .
Food intake shortly before dosing delays absorption of an immediate - release dosage form but does not affect total absorption .
The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of pentoxifylline have not been studied in patients with renal and / or hepatic dysfunction .
The pentoxifylline AUC was increased and elimination rate decreased in an older population ( 60 to 68 years , n = 6 ) compared to younger individuals ( 22 to 30 years , n = 6 ) ( see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
After administration of the 400 mg extended - release pentoxifylline tablet , plasma levels of the parent compound and its metabolites reach their maximum within 2 to 4 hours and remain constant over an extended period of time .
Coadministration of pentoxifylline tablets with meals resulted in an increase in mean Cmax and AUC by about 28 % and 13 % for pentoxifylline , respectively .
Cmax for Metabolite 1 also increased by about 20 % .
The extended release of pentoxifylline from the tablet eliminates peaks and troughs in plasma levels for improved gastrointestinal tolerance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pentoxifylline extended - release tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of patients with intermittent claudication on the basis of chronic occlusive arterial disease of the limbs .
Pentoxifylline can improve function and symptoms but is not intended to replace more definitive therapy , such as surgical bypass , or removal of arterial obstructions when treating peripheral vascular disease .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pentoxifylline should not be used in patients with recent cerebral and / or retinal hemorrhage or in patients who have previously exhibited intolerance to this product or methylxanthines such as caffeine , theophylline , and theobromine .
PRECAUTIONS General At the first sign of anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reaction , pentoxifylline must be discontinued .
Patients with chronic occlusive arterial disease of the limbs frequently show other manifestations of arteriosclerotic disease .
Pentoxifylline has been used safely for treatment of peripheral arterial disease in patients with concurrent coronary artery and cerebrovascular diseases , but there have been occasional reports of angina , hypotension , and arrhythmia .
Controlled trials do not show that pentoxifylline causes such adverse effects more often than placebo , but , as it is a methylxanthine derivative , it is possible some individuals will experience such responses .
Patients on Warfarin should have more frequent monitoring of prothrombin times , while patients with other risk factors complicated by hemorrhage ( e . g . , recent surgery , peptic ulceration , cerebral and / or retinal bleeding ) should have periodic examinations for bleeding including , hematocrit and / or hemoglobin .
Drug Interactions Although a causal relationship has not been established , there have been reports of bleeding and / or prolonged prothrombin time in patients treated with pentoxifylline with and without anticoagulants or platelet aggregation inhibitors .
Patients on Warfarin should have more frequent monitoring of prothrombin times , while patients with other risk factors complicated by hemorrhage ( e . g . , recent surgery , peptic ulceration ) should have periodic examinations for bleeding including hematocrit and / or hemoglobin .
Concomitant administration of pentoxifylline and theophylline - containing drugs leads to increased theophylline levels and theophylline toxicity in some individuals .
Such patients should be closely monitored for signs of toxicity and have their theophylline dosage adjusted as necessary .
Pentoxifylline has been used concurrently with beta blockers , digitalis , diuretics , antidiabetic agents , and antiarrhythmics , without observed problems .
Small decreases in blood pressure have been observed in some patients treated with pentoxifylline plus nifedipine or captopril ; periodic systemic blood pressure monitoring is recommended for patients receiving concomitant antihypertensive therapy .
If indicated , dosage of the antihypertensive agents should be reduced .
Postmarketing cases of increased anticoagulant activity have been reported in patients concomitantly treated with pentoxifylline and vitamin K antagonists .
Monitoring of anticoagulant activity in these patients is recommended when pentoxifylline is introduced or the dose is changed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies of the carcinogenic potential of pentoxifylline were conducted in mice and rats by dietary administration of the drug at doses up to 450 mg / kg ( approximately 19 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHD ) in both species when based on body weight ; 1 . 5 times the MRHD in the mouse and 3 . 3 times the MRHD in the rat when based on body surface area ) .
In mice , the drug was administered for 18 months , whereas in rats , the drug was administered for 18 months followed by an additional 6 months without drug exposure .
In the rat study , there was a statistically significant increase in benign mammary fibroadenomas in females of the 450 mg / kg group .
The relevance of this finding to human use is uncertain .
Pentoxifylline was devoid of mutagenic activity in various strains of Salmonella ( Ames test ) and in cultured mammalian cells ( unscheduled DNA synthesis test ) when tested in the presence and absence of metabolic activation .
It was also negative in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Pregnancy Category C . Teratogenicity studies have been performed in rats and rabbits using oral doses up to 576 and 264 mg / kg , respectively .
On a weight basis , these doses are 24 and 11 times the maximum recommended human daily dose ( MRHD ) ; on a body - surface - area basis , they are 4 . 2 and 3 . 5 times the MRHD .
No evidence of fetal malformation was observed .
Increased resorption was seen in rats of the 576 mg / kg group .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Pentoxifylline should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Pentoxifylline and its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for pentoxifylline in rats , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of pentoxifylline did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The active metabolite is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials were conducted using either extended - release pentoxifylline tablets for up to 60 weeks or immediate - release pentoxifylline capsules for up to 24 weeks .
Dosage ranges in the tablet studies were 400 mg bid to tid and in the capsule studies , 200 to 400 mg tid .
The table summarizes the incidence ( in percent ) of adverse reactions considered drug related , as well as the numbers of patients who received extended - release pentoxifylline tablets , immediate - release pentoxifylline capsules , or the corresponding placebos .
The incidence of adverse reactions was higher in the capsule studies ( where dose related increases were seen in digestive and nervous system side effects ) than in the tablet studies .
Studies with the capsule include domestic experience , whereas studies with the extended - release tablets were conducted outside the U . S .
The table indicates that in the tablet studies few patients discontinued because of adverse effects .
INCIDENCE ( % ) OF SIDE EFFECTS Extended - Release Tables , USP Immediate Release Capsules Commercially Available Used Only For Controlled Clinical Trials Pentoxifylline Placebo Pentoxifylline Placebo ( Number of Patients at Risk ) ( 321 ) ( 128 ) ( 177 ) ( 138 ) Discontinued for Side Effect 3 . 1 0 9 . 6 7 . 2 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Angina / Chest Pain 0 . 3 - 1 . 1 2 . 2 Arrhythmia / Palpitation - - 1 . 7 0 . 7 Flushing - - 2 . 3 0 . 7 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM Abdominal Discomfort - - 4 . 0 1 . 4 Belching / Flatus / Bloating 0 . 6 - 9 . 0 3 . 6 Diarrhea - - 3 . 4 2 . 9 Dyspepsia 2 . 8 4 . 7 9 . 6 2 . 9 Nausea 2 . 2 0 . 8 28 . 8 8 . 7 Vomiting 1 . 2 - 4 . 5 0 . 7 NERVOUS SYSTEM Agitation / Nervousness - - 1 . 7 0 . 7 Dizziness 1 . 9 3 . 1 11 . 9 4 . 3 Drowsiness - - 1 . 1 5 . 8 Headache 1 . 2 1 . 6 6 . 2 5 . 8 Insomnia - - 2 . 3 2 . 2 Tremor 0 . 3 0 . 8 - - Blurred Vision - - 2 . 3 1 . 4 Pentoxifylline has been marketed in Europe and elsewhere since 1972 .
In addition to the above symptoms , the following have been reported spontaneously since marketing or occurred in other clinical trials with an incidence of less than 1 % ; the causal relationship was uncertain : Cardiovascular - dyspnea , edema , hypotension .
Digestive - anorexia , cholecystitis , constipation , dry mouth / thirst .
Nervous - anxiety , confusion , depression , seizures , aseptic meningitis .
Respiratory - epistaxis , flu - like symptoms , laryngitis , nasal congestion .
Skin and Appendages - brittle fingernails , pruritus , rash , urticaria , angioedema .
Special Senses - blurred vision , conjunctivitis , earache , scotoma .
Miscellaneous - bad taste , excessive salivation , leukopenia , malaise , sore throat / swollen neck glands , weight change .
A few rare events have been reported spontaneously worldwide since marketing in 1972 .
Although they occurred under circumstances in which a causal relationship with pentoxifylline could not be established , they are listed to serve as information for physicians .
Cardiovascular - angina , arrhythmia , tachycardia .
Digestive - hepatitis , jaundice , cholestasis , increased liver enzymes ; and Hemic and Lymphatic - decreased serum fibrinogen , pancytopenia , aplastic anemia , leukemia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
Immune system disorders - anaphylactic reaction , anaphylactoid reaction , anaphylactic shock .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with pentoxifylline has been reported in pediatric patients and adults .
Symptoms appear to be dose related .
A report from a poison control center on 44 patients taking overdoses of enteric - coated pentoxifylline tablets noted that symptoms usually occurred 4 to 5 hours after ingestion and lasted about 12 hours .
The highest amount ingested was 80 mg / kg ; flushing , hypotension , convulsions , somnolence , loss of consciousness , fever , and agitation occurred .
All patients recovered .
In addition to symptomatic treatment and gastric lavage , special attention must be given to supporting respiration , maintaining systemic blood pressure , and controlling convulsions .
Activated charcoal has been used to absorb pentoxifylline in patients who have overdosed .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual dosage of pentoxifylline in extended - release tablet form is one tablet ( 400 mg ) three times a day with meals .
While the effect of pentoxifylline may be seen within 2 to 4 weeks , it is recommended that treatment be continued for at least 8 weeks .
Efficacy has been demonstrated in double - blind clinical studies of 6 months duration .
Digestive and central nervous system side effects are dose related .
If patients develop these effects it is recommended that the dosage be lowered to one tablet twice a day ( 800 mg / day ) .
If side effects persist at this lower dosage , the administration of pentoxifylline should be discontinued .
HOW SUPPLIED Repackaged by Aphena Pharma Solutions - TN .
See Repackaging Information for available configurations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Pentoxifylline extended - release tablets , USP are available for oral administration as 400 mg white , oval , unscored , film coated tablets , imprinted “ APO 033 ” on one side and plain on the other side ; supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 60505 - 0033 - 6 ) , bottles of 500 ( NDC 60505 - 0033 - 7 ) , bottles of 1000 ( NDC 60505 - 0033 - 9 ) and bottles of 5 , 500 ( NDC 60505 - 0033 - 8 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container [ see USP ] .
APOTEX INC .
PENTOXIFYLLINE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS , USP 400 mg Manufactured by : Manufactured for : Apotex Inc .
Apotex Corp .
Toronto , Ontario Weston , Florida Canada M9L 1T9 33326 Revised : December 2012 Rev . 4 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets or capsules .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 400 mg 90 67544 - 252 - 60 270 67544 - 252 - 92 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20140625 SC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 400 mg NDC 67544 - 252 - Pentoxifylline ER 400 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
