Active ingredient 5 % Coal Tar Topical Solution USP ( 1 % Coal Tar ) Purpose Anti - dandruff Use controls the symoptoms of : • dandruff • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have a condition which covers a large part of the body When using this product • do not get into eyes .
If contact occurrs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water • use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product .
It may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application • do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor • do not use with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens or does not improve after reqular use of this product as directed .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
California Proposition 65 Warning This product contains chemicals know in the State of California to cause cancer .
Directions • for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor • wet hair thoroughly • masage shampoo into scalp • lather .
Leave on hair and scalp for several minutes • rinse and repeat Other information • store away from direct sunlight • in rare instances , discoloration of gray , blonde , bleached or tinted hair may occur Inactive ingredients water , sodium laureth sulfate , cocamide MIPA , cocamidipropl betaine , polysorbate 20 , laureth - 4 , bishydroxyethly dihydroxypropyl stearammonium chloride , PEG - 120 methyl glucose dioleate , tetrasodium EDTA , citric acid , fragrance , imidazolidinyl urea , methylparaben , propylparaben , caramel , red - 4 * This product is not manufactured or distributed by the Johnson & Johnson Corporation , owner of the registered trademark Neutrogena T / Gel .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS / pharmacy CVS . com 1 - 800 - SHOP - CVS Made in the U . S . A . with U . S . and foreign compents .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL CVS Health Compare to Neutrogena T / Gel Therapeutic Shampoo * EXTRA STRENGTH Therapeutic Dandruff Shampoo 5 % COAL TAR TOPICAL SOLUTION USP ( 1 % COAL TAR ) Controls redness , intense itching & flaking of severe scalp conditions Controls the symptoms of dandruff , sevorrheic dermatitis & psoriasis 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
