1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsule is indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients who have had transient ischemia of the brain or completed ischemic stroke due to thrombosis .
• • Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsule is a combination antiplatelet agent indicated to reduce the risk of stroke in patients who have had transient ischemia of the brain or completed ischemic stroke due to thrombosis ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules are not interchangeable with the individual components of aspirin and dipyridamole tablets .
The recommended dose of Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules is one capsule given orally twice daily , one in the morning and one in the evening .
Swallow capsules whole without chewing .
Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules can be administered with or without food .
• • One capsule twice daily ( morning and evening ) with or without food ( 2 ) • • In case of intolerable headaches during initial treatment , switch to one capsule at bedtime and low - dose aspirin in the morning ; resume BID dosing within one week ( 2 ) • • Do not chew capsule ( 2 ) • • Not interchangeable with the individual components of aspirin and dipyridamole tablets ( 2 ) • • Dispense in this unit - of - use container ( 16 ) 2 . 1 Alternative Regimen in Case of Intolerable Headaches In the event of intolerable headaches during initial treatment , switch to one capsule at bedtime and low - dose aspirin in the morning .
Because there are no outcome data with this regimen and headaches become less of a problem as treatment continues , patients should return to the usual regimen as soon as possible , usually within one week .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS 25 mg / 200 mg capsules are imprinted in black with ‘ PAR ’ on the cap and ‘ 730 ’ on the body , containing yellow colored extended - release pellets incorporating dipyridamole and a white to off white , film coated , circular bi - convex tablet incorporating immediate - release aspirin .
• • Capsule : 25 mg aspirin / 200 mg extended - release dipyridamole ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to any product ingredients ( 4 . 1 ) • • Patients with known allergy to NSAIDs ( 4 . 2 ) • • Patients with the syndrome of asthma , rhinitis , and nasal polyps ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the product components .
4 . 2 Allergy Aspirin is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to nonsteroidal anti - in Aspirin is contraindicated in patients with known allergy to nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) products and in patients with the syndrome of asthma , rhinitis , and nasal polyps .
Aspirin may cause severe urticaria , angioedema or bronchospasm .
4 . 3 Reye Syndrome Do not use aspirin in children or teenagers with viral infections because of the risk of Reye syndrome .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules increases the risk of bleeding ( 5 . 1 ) • • Avoid use in patients with severe hepatic or renal insufficiency ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Bleeding Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole increases the risk of bleeding .
Risk factors for bleeding include the use of other drugs that increase the risk of bleeding ( e . g . , anticoagulants , antiplatelet agents , heparin , anagrelide , fibrinolytic therapy , and chronic use of NSAIDs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Intracranial Hemorrhage In European Stroke Prevention Study - 2 ( ESPS2 ) , the annualized event rate for intracranial hemorrhage was 0 . 39 % / year in the aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole group , 0 . 26 % / year in the extended - release dipyridamole ( ER - DP ) group , 0 . 24 % / year in the aspirin ( ASA ) group and 0 . 29 % / year in the placebo groups .
Gastrointestinal ( GI ) Side Effects GI side effects include stomach pain , heartburn , nausea , vomiting , and gross GI bleeding .
Although minor upper GI symptoms , such as dyspepsia , are common and can occur anytime during therapy , physicians should remain alert for signs of ulceration and bleeding , even in the absence of previous GI symptoms .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of GI side effects and what steps to take if they occur .
In ESPS2 , the annualized event rate for gastrointestinal bleeding was 2 . 97 % / year in the aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole group , 1 . 58 % / year in the extended - release dipyridamole group , 2 . 06 % / year in the aspirin group , and 1 . 40 % / year in the placebo groups .
Peptic Ulcer Disease Avoid using aspirin in patients with a history of active peptic ulcer disease , which can cause gastric mucosal irritation and bleeding .
Alcohol Warning Because aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole contains aspirin , counsel patients who consume three or more alcoholic drinks every day about the bleeding risks involved with chronic , heavy alcohol use while taking aspirin .
5 . 2 Renal Failure Avoid aspirin in patients with severe renal failure ( glomerular filtration rate less than 10 mL / minute ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hepatic Insufficiency Elevations of hepatic enzymes and hepatic failure have been reported in association with dipyridamole administration [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Coronary Artery Disease Dipyridamole has a vasodilatory effect .
Chest pain may be precipitated or aggravated in patients with underlying coronary artery disease who are receiving dipyridamole .
For stroke or TIA patients for whom aspirin is indicated to prevent recurrent myocardial infarction ( MI ) or angina pectoris , the aspirin in this product may not provide adequate treatment for the cardiac indications .
5 . 5 Hypotension Dipyridamole produces peripheral vasodilation , which can exacerbate pre - existing hypotension .
5 . 6 General Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules are not interchangeable with the individual components of aspirin and dipyridamole tablets .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] .
• • Allergy [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
• • Risk of Bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • The most frequently reported adverse reactions ( > 10 % and greater than placebo ) were headache , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , nausea , and diarrhea ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical trials experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The efficacy and safety of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole was established in the European Stroke Prevention Study - 2 ( ESPS2 ) .
ESPS2 was a double - blind , placebo - controlled study that evaluated 6602 patients over the age of 18 years who had a previous ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack within ninety days prior to entry .
Patients were randomized to either aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole , aspirin , ER - DP , or placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] ; primary endpoints included stroke ( fatal or nonfatal ) and death from all causes .
This 24 - month , multicenter , double - blind , randomized study ( ESPS2 ) was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole with placebo , extended - release dipyridamole alone and aspirin alone .
The study was conducted in a total of 6602 male and female patients who had experienced a previous ischemic stroke or transient ischemia of the brain within three months prior to randomization .
Table 1 presents the annualized event rate for adverse events that occurred in 1 % / year or more of patients treated with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole where the incidence was also at least 1 % / year greater than in those patients treated with placebo .
There is no clear benefit of the dipyridamole / aspirin combination over aspirin with respect to safety .
Table 1 Incidence of Adverse Events in ESPS2a Individual Treatment Group Body System / Preferred Term Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole n ( % / year ) b ER - DP Alone n ( % / year ) b ASA Alone n ( % / year ) b Placebo n ( % / year ) b Total Number of Patients 1 , 650 1 , 654 1 , 649 1 , 649 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Disorders Headache 647 ( 28 . 25 ) 634 ( 27 . 91 ) 558 ( 22 . 10 ) 543 ( 22 . 29 ) Gastrointestinal System Disorders Dyspepsia 303 ( 13 . 23 ) 288 ( 12 . 68 ) 299 ( 11 . 84 ) 275 ( 11 . 29 ) Abdominal Pain 289 ( 12 . 62 ) 255 ( 11 . 22 ) 262 ( 10 . 38 ) 239 ( 9 . 81 ) Nausea 264 ( 11 . 53 ) 254 ( 11 . 18 ) 210 ( 8 . 32 ) 232 ( 9 . 53 ) Diarrhea 210 ( 9 . 17 ) 257 ( 11 . 31 ) 112 ( 4 . 44 ) 161 ( 6 . 61 ) Vomiting 138 ( 6 . 03 ) 129 ( 5 . 68 ) 101 ( 4 . 00 ) 118 ( 4 . 84 ) Platelet , Bleeding and Clotting Disorders Hemorrhage NOS 52 ( 2 . 27 ) 24 ( 1 . 06 ) 46 ( 1 . 82 ) 24 ( 0 . 99 ) aReported by ≥ 1 % / year of patients during aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole treatment where the incidence was at least 1 % / year greater than in those treated with placebo .
bAnnual event rate per 100 pt - years = 100 * number of subjects with event / subject - years .
Subject - years is defined as cumulative number of days on treatment divided by 365 . 25 .
Note : ER - DP = extended - release dipyridamole 200 mg ; ASA = aspirin 25 mg .
The dosage regimen for all treatment groups is BID .
NOS = not otherwise specified .
Discontinuation due to adverse events in ESPS2 was 25 % for aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole , 25 % for extended - release dipyridamole , 19 % for aspirin , and 21 % for placebo ( refer to Table 2 ) Table 2 Incidence of Adverse Events that Led to the Discontinuation of Treatment : Adverse Events with an Incidence of ≥ 1 % in the Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Group Treatment Groups Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamolen ( % / year ) b ER - DP n ( % / year ) b ASA n ( % / year ) b Placebo n ( % / year ) b Total Number of Patients 1 , 650 1 , 654 1 , 649 1 , 649 Patients with at least one Adverse Event that led to treatment discontinuation 417 ( 18 . 21 ) 419 ( 18 . 44 ) 318 ( 12 . 59 ) 352 ( 14 . 45 ) Headache 165 ( 7 . 20 ) 166 ( 7 . 31 ) 57 ( 2 . 26 ) 69 ( 2 . 83 ) Nausea 91 ( 3 . 97 ) 95 ( 4 . 18 ) 51 ( 2 . 02 ) 53 ( 2 . 18 ) Abdominal Pain 74 ( 3 . 23 ) 64 ( 2 . 82 ) 56 ( 2 . 22 ) 52 ( 2 . 13 ) Vomiting 53 ( 2 . 31 ) 52 ( 2 . 29 ) 28 ( 1 . 11 ) 24 ( 0 . 99 ) aReported by ≥ 1 % / year of patients during aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole treatment where the incidence was at least 1 % / year greater than in those treated with placebo .
bAnnual event rate per 100 pt - years = 100 * number of subjects with event / subject - years .
Subject - years is defined as cumulative number of days on treatment divided by 365 . 25 .
Note : ER - DP = extended - release dipyridamole 200 mg ; ASA = aspirin 25 mg .
The dosage regimen for all treatment groups is BID .
Headache was most notable in the first month of treatment .
6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following is a list of additional adverse reactions that have been reported either in the literature or are from post - marketing spontaneous reports for either dipyridamole or aspirin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Decisions to include these reactions in labeling are typically based on one or more of the following factors : ( 1 ) seriousness of the reaction , ( 2 ) frequency of reporting , or ( 3 ) strength of causal connection to aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole .
Body as a Whole : Hypothermia , chest pain , allergic reaction , syncope Cardiovascular : Angina pectoris , hypotension Central Nervous System : Cerebral edema , dizziness , cerebral hemorrhage , intracranial hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage Fluid and Electrolyte : Hyperkalemia , metabolic acidosis , respiratory alkalosis , hypokalemia Gastrointestinal : Pancreatitis , Reye syndrome , hematemesis , gastritis , ulceration and perforation , hemorrhage rectum , melena , GI hemorrhage Hearing and Vestibular Disorders : Hearing loss Heart Rate and Rhythm Disorders : Tachycardia , palpitation Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity , acute anaphylaxis , laryngeal edema Liver and Biliary System Disorders : Hepatitis , hepatic failure , cholelithiasis , jaundice , hepatic function abnormal Musculoskeletal : Rhabdomyolysis , myalgia Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : Hypoglycemia , dehydration Platelet , Bleeding and Clotting Disorders : Prolongation of the prothrombin time , disseminated intravascular coagulation , coagulopathy , thrombocytopenia , hematoma , gingival bleeding , epistaxis , purpura Psychiatric Disorders : Confusion , agitation Respiratory : Tachypnea , dyspnea , hemoptysis Skin and Appendages Disorders : Rash , alopecia , angioedema , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , skin hemorrhages such as bruising , ecchymosis , and hematoma , pruritus , urticaria Urogenital : Interstitial nephritis , papillary necrosis , proteinuria , renal insufficiency and failure , hematuria Vascular ( Extracardiac ) Disorders : Allergic vasculitis , flushing Other Adverse Events : Anorexia , aplastic anemia , migraine , pancytopenia , thrombocytosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Coadministration with anticoagulants , antiplatelets , or NSAIDS can increase risk of bleeding ( 7 . 1 ) • • Decreased renal function can occur with coadministration with NSAIDS ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drug Interaction Study Information Obtained From Literature Adenosine Dipyridamole has been reported to increase the plasma levels and cardiovascular effects of adenosine .
Adjustment of adenosine dosage may be necessary .
Angiotensin Converting Enzyme ( ACE ) Inhibitors Because of the indirect effect of aspirin on the renin - angiotensin conversion pathway , the hyponatremic and hypotensive effects of ACE inhibitors may be diminished by concomitant administration of aspirin .
Acetazolamide Concurrent use of aspirin and acetazolamide can lead to high serum concentrations of acetazolamide ( and toxicity ) due to competition at the renal tubule for secretion .
Anticoagulants and Antiplatelets Patients taking aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole in combination with anticoagulants , antiplatelets , or any substance impacting coagulation are at increased risk for bleeding .
Aspirin can displace warfarin from protein binding sites , leading to prolongation of both the prothrombin time and the bleeding time .
Aspirin can increase the anticoagulant activity of heparin , increasing bleeding risk .
Anagrelide Patients taking aspirin in combination with anagrelide are at an increased risk of bleeding .
Anticonvulsants Salicylic acid can displace protein - bound phenytoin and valproic acid , leading to a decrease in the total concentration of phenytoin and an increase in serum valproic acid levels .
Beta Blockers The hypotensive effects of beta blockers may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins , leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention .
Cholinesterase Inhibitors Dipyridamole may counteract the anticholinesterase effect of cholinesterase inhibitors , thereby potentially aggravating myasthenia gravis .
Diuretics The effectiveness of diuretics in patients with underlying renal or cardiovascular disease may be diminished by the concomitant administration of aspirin due to inhibition of renal prostaglandins , leading to decreased renal blood flow and salt and fluid retention .
Methotrexate Salicylate can inhibit renal clearance of methotrexate , leading to bone marrow toxicity , especially in the elderly or renal impaired .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) The concurrent use of aspirin with other NSAIDs may increase bleeding or lead to decreased renal function .
Oral Hypoglycemics Moderate doses of aspirin may increase the effectiveness of oral hypoglycemic drugs , leading to hypoglycemia .
Uricosuric Agents ( probenecid and sulfinpyrazone ) Salicylates antagonize the uricosuric action of uricosuric agents .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy Category D ( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from published studies and postmarketing experience with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole use during pregnancy have not identified a clear association between aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole use and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole contains low - dose aspirin which is an NSAID ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , there were adverse developmental effects with administration of aspirin in rats and rabbits at doses about 66 and 44 times , respectively , the human exposure at the maximum recommended daily dose of aspirin - dipyridamole .
Reproduction studies with dipyridamole in mice , rabbits , and rats have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus up to doses about 25 times the maximum recommended daily human dose of aspirin - dipyridamole .
Nonclinical data are suggestive of a possible potentiation of aspirin - related fetal toxicity when combined with dipyridamole ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Labor and Delivery Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole , which contains dipyridamole and low - dose aspirin , increases the risk for bleeding [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Maternal use of high - dose aspirin can result in excessive blood loss at delivery , prolonged gestation , prolonged labor , intracranial hemorrhage in premature infants , low birth weight , stillbirth , and neonatal death .
Data Human Data Published data from clinical trials , observational studies , case series , and case reports over several decades have not identified a clear association between aspirin - dipyridamole use in pregnancy and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
However , these studies cannot definitively establish the absence of any aspirin - dipyridamole associated risks .
Methodological limitations of these studies include variability in the timing and dose of drug exposure ( e . g . , most exposures occurred beyond the first trimester ) and the small sample sizes of individual studies .
Animal Data Aspirin has been shown to be teratogenic in rats ( spina bifida , exencephaly , microphthalmia and coelosomia ) and rabbits ( congested fetuses , agenesis of skull and upper jaw , generalized edema with malformation of the head , and diaphanous skin ) at oral doses of 330 mg / kg / day and 110 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses , which also resulted in a high resorption rate in rats ( 63 % of implantations versus 5 % in controls ) , are , on a mg / m2 basis , about 66 and 44 times , respectively , the dose of aspirin contained in the maximum recommended daily human dose of aspirin - dipyridamole .
Reproduction studies with dipyridamole have been performed in mice , rabbits and rats at oral doses of up to 125 mg / kg , 40 mg / kg , and 1000 mg / kg , respectively ( about 1 ½ , 2 , and 25 times the maximum recommended daily human oral dose , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to dipyridamole .
When 330 mg aspirin / kg / day was combined with 75 mg dipyridamole / kg / day in the rat at doses about 66 and 2 times , respectively , the maximum recommended daily human dose , the resorption rate approached 100 % .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Based on data from a clinical lactation study in breastfeeding women taking low - dose aspirin , the metabolite salicylic acid is present in human milk in low levels ( see Data ) .
Dipyridamole is also present in human milk .
There is no information on the effects of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole or dipyridamole on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
There is insufficient information to determine the effects of aspirin on the breastfed infant and no information on the effects of aspirin on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data A published clinical study involved six exclusively breastfeeding women at 1 to 8 months postpartum who were taking 81 mg aspirin daily .
Milk samples were collected at steady state , at 0 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 12 , and 24 hours after taking a dose of aspirin .
Aspirin was undetectable in human milk .
Salicylic acid was present in milk at low levels ( average concentration of 24 ng / mL ) .
Based on an average milk consumption of 150 mL / kg / day , the calculated relative infant dose was 0 . 4 % .
No adverse effects on the breastfed infants were noted .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole in pediatric patients have not been studied .
Because of the aspirin component , use of this product in the pediatric population is not recommended [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in ESPS2 , 61 % were 65 and over , while 27 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Patients with Severe Hepatic or Severe Renal Dysfunction Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment .
Avoid using aspirin containing products , such as aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole in patients with severe hepatic or severe renal ( glomerular filtration rate < 10 mL / min ) dysfunction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Because of the dose ratio of dipyridamole to aspirin , overdosage of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole is likely to be dominated by signs and symptoms of dipyridamole overdose .
In case of real or suspected overdose , seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Careful medical management is essential .
Based upon the known hemodynamic effects of dipyridamole , symptoms such as warm feeling , flushes , sweating , restlessness , feeling of weakness , and dizziness may occur .
A drop in blood pressure and tachycardia might also be observed .
Salicylate toxicity may result from acute ingestion ( overdose ) or chronic intoxication .
Severity of aspirin intoxication is determined by measuring the blood salicylate level .
The early signs of salicylic overdose ( salicylism ) , including tinnitus ( ringing in the ears ) , occur at plasma concentrations approaching 200 mcg / mL .
In severe cases , hyperthermia and hypovolemia are the major immediate threats to life .
Plasma concentrations of aspirin above 300 mcg / mL are clearly toxic .
Severe toxic effects are associated with levels above 400 mcg / mL .
A single lethal dose of aspirin in adults is not known with certainty but death may be expected at 30 g . Treatment of overdose consists primarily of supporting vital functions , increasing drug elimination , and correcting acid - base disturbances .
Consider gastric emptying and / or lavage as soon as possible after ingestion , even if the patient has vomited spontaneously .
After lavage and / or emesis , administration of activated charcoal as a slurry may be beneficial if less than 3 hours have passed since ingestion .
Charcoal absorption should not be employed prior to emesis and lavage .
Follow acid - base status closely with serial blood gas and serum pH measurements .
Maintain fluid and electrolyte balance .
Administer replacement fluid intravenously and augment with correction of acidosis .
Treatment may require the use of a vasopressor .
Infusion of glucose may be required to control hypoglycemia .
Administration of xanthine derivatives ( e . g . , aminophylline ) may reverse the vasodilatory effects of dipyridamole overdose .
Plasma electrolytes and pH should be monitored serially to promote alkaline diuresis of salicylate if renal function is normal .
In patients with renal insufficiency or in cases of life - threatening intoxication , dialysis is usually required to treat salicylic overdose ; however , since dipyridamole is highly protein bound , dialysis is not likely to remove dipyridamole .
Exchange transfusion may be indicated in infants and young children .
11 DESCRIPTION Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules are a combination antiplatelet agent intended for oral administration .
Each hard gelatin capsule contains 200 mg dipyridamole in an extended - release form and 25 mg aspirin , as an immediate - release tablet .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : acacia , alginic acid , anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethyl cellulose , hypromellose phthalate , hypromellose , lecithin , xanthan gum , polyvinyl alcohol , povidone , pregelatinized starch , stearic acid , talc , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Each capsule shell contains gelatin , sodium lauryl sulfate , FD & C Red 40 , FD & C Yellow 6 , shellac , potassium hydroxide , red iron oxide , yellow iron oxide , titanium dioxide , black iron oxide and water .
Dipyridamole Dipyridamole is an antiplatelet agent chemically described as 2 , 2 ' , 2 '' , 2 ''' - [ ( 4 , 8 - Dipiperidinopyrimido [ 5 , 4 - d ] pyrimidine - 2 , 6 - diyl ) dinitrilo ] - tetraethanol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dipyridamole is an intensely yellow crystalline powder , having a bitter taste .
It is soluble in dilute acids , methanol and chloroform , and is practically insoluble in water .
Aspirin The antiplatelet agent aspirin ( acetylsalicylic acid ) is chemically known as benzoic acid , 2 - ( acetyloxy ) - , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aspirin is an odorless white crystals , commonly tabular or needle - like or white crystalline or powder .
When exposed to moisture , aspirin hydrolyzes into salicylic and acetic acids , and gives off a vinegary odor .
It is highly lipid soluble and slightly soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The antithrombotic action of aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole is the result of the additive antiplatelet effects of dipyridamole and aspirin .
Dipyridamole Dipyridamole inhibits the uptake of adenosine into platelets , endothelial cells and erythrocytes in vitro and in vivo ; the inhibition occurs in a dose - dependent manner at therapeutic concentrations ( 0 . 5 to 1 . 9 mcg / mL ) .
This inhibition results in an increase in local concentrations of adenosine which acts on the platelet A2 - receptor thereby stimulating platelet adenylate cyclase and increasing platelet cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) levels .
Via this mechanism , platelet aggregation is inhibited in response to various stimuli such as platelet activating factor ( PAF ) , collagen and adenosine diphosphate ( ADP ) .
Dipyridamole inhibits phosphodiesterase ( PDE ) in various tissues .
While the inhibition of cAMP - PDE is weak , therapeutic levels of dipyridamole inhibit cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' ‑ - guanosine monophosphate - PDE ( cGMP - PDE ) , thereby augmenting the increase in cGMP produced by EDRF ( endothelium - derived relaxing factor , now identified as nitric oxide ) .
Aspirin Aspirin inhibits platelet aggregation by irreversible inhibition of platelet cyclooxygenase and thus inhibits the generation of thromboxane A2 , a powerful inducer of platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of either agent on the other ' s inhibition of platelet reactivity has not been evaluated .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics There are no significant interactions between aspirin and dipyridamole .
The kinetics of the components are unchanged by their coadministration as aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole .
Absorption Dipyridamole : Peak plasma levels of dipyridamole are achieved 2 hours ( range 1 to 6 hours ) after administration of a daily dose of 400 mg aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole ( given as 200 mg BID ) .
The peak plasma concentration at steady - state is 1 . 98 mcg / mL ( 1 . 01 to 3 . 99 mcg / mL ) and the steady - state trough concentration is 0 . 53 mcg / mL ( 0 . 18 to 1 . 01 mcg / mL ) .
Aspirin : Peak plasma levels of aspirin are achieved 0 . 63 hours ( 0 . 5 to 1 hour ) after administration of a 50 mg aspirin daily dose from aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole ( given as 25 mg BID ) .
The peak plasma concentration at steady - state is 319 ng / mL ( 175 to 463 ng / mL ) .
Aspirin undergoes moderate hydrolysis to salicylic acid in the liver and the gastrointestinal wall , with 50 % to 75 % of an administered dose reaching the systemic circulation as intact aspirin .
Effect of Food Dipyridamole : When aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules were taken with a high fat meal , dipyridamole peak plasma levels ( Cmax ) and total absorption ( AUC ) were decreased at steady - state by 20 to 30 % compared to fasting .
Due to the similar degree of inhibition of adenosine uptake at these plasma concentrations , this food effect is not considered clinically relevant .
Aspirin : When aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules were taken with a high fat meal , there was no difference for aspirin in AUC at steady - state , and the approximately 50 % decrease in Cmax was not considered clinically relevant based on a similar degree of cyclooxygenase inhibition comparing the fed and fasted state .
Distribution Dipyridamole : Dipyridamole is highly lipophilic ( log P = 3 . 71 , pH = 7 ) ; however , it has been shown that the drug does not cross the blood - brain barrier to any significant extent in animals .
The steady - state volume of distribution of dipyridamole is about 92 L . Approximately 99 % of dipyridamole is bound to plasma proteins , predominantly to alpha 1 - acid glycoprotein and albumin .
Aspirin : Aspirin is poorly bound to plasma proteins and its apparent volume of distribution is low ( 10 L ) .
Its metabolite , salicylic acid , is highly bound to plasma proteins , but its binding is concentration - dependent ( nonlinear ) .
At low concentrations ( < 100 mcg / mL ) , approximately 90 % of salicylic acid is bound to albumin .
Salicylic acid is widely distributed to all tissues and fluids in the body , including the central nervous system , breast milk , and fetal tissues .
Early signs of salicylate overdose ( salicylism ) , including tinnitus ( ringing in the ears ) , occur at plasma concentrations approximating 200 mcg / mL [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Metabolism and Elimination Dipyridamole : Dipyridamole is metabolized in the liver , primarily by conjugation with glucuronic acid , of which monoglucuronide which has low pharmacodynamic activity is the primary metabolite .
In plasma , about 80 % of the total amount is present as parent compound and 20 % as monoglucuronide .
Most of the glucuronide metabolite ( about 95 % ) is excreted via bile into the feces , with some evidence of enterohepatic circulation .
Renal excretion of parent compound is negligible and urinary excretion of the glucuronide metabolite is low ( about 5 % ) .
With intravenous ( i . v . ) treatment of dipyridamole , a triphasic profile is obtained : a rapid alpha phase , with a half - life of about 3 . 4 minutes , a beta phase , with a half - life of about 39 minutes , ( which , together with the alpha phase accounts for about 70 % of the total area under the curve , AUC ) and a prolonged elimination phase λz with a half - life of about 15 . 5 hours .
Because of the extended absorption phase of the dipyridamole component , only the terminal phase is apparent from oral treatment with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole which was 13 . 6 hours .
Aspirin : Aspirin is rapidly hydrolyzed in plasma to salicylic acid , with a half - life of 20 minutes .
Plasma levels of aspirin are essentially undetectable 2 to 2 . 5 hours after dosing and peak salicylic acid concentrations occur 1 hour ( range : 0 . 5 to 2 hours ) after administration of aspirin .
Salicylic acid is primarily conjugated in the liver to form salicyluric acid , a phenolic glucuronide , an acyl glucuronide , and a number of minor metabolites .
Salicylate metabolism is saturable and total body clearance decreases at higher serum concentrations due to the limited ability of the liver to form both salicyluric acid and phenolic glucuronide .
Following toxic doses ( 10 to 20 g ) , the plasma half - life may be increased to over 20 hours .
The elimination of acetylsalicylic acid follows first - order kinetics with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole and has a half - life of 0 . 33 hours .
The half - life of salicylic acid is 1 . 71 hours .
Both values correspond well with data from the literature at lower doses which state a resultant half - life of approximately 2 to 3 hours .
At higher doses , the elimination of salicylic acid follows zero - order kinetics ( i . e . , the rate of elimination is constant in relation to plasma concentration ) , with an apparent half - life of 6 hours or higher .
Renal excretion of unchanged drug depends upon urinary pH . As urinary pH rises above 6 . 5 , the renal clearance of free salicylate increases from < 5 % to > 80 % .
Alkalinization of the urine is a key concept in the management of salicylate overdose [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
Following therapeutic doses , about 10 % is excreted as salicylic acid and 75 % as salicyluric acid , as the phenolic and acyl glucuronides , in urine .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients : Dipyridamole : In ESPS2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , plasma concentrations ( determined as AUC ) of dipyridamole in healthy elderly subjects ( > 65 years ) were about 40 % higher than in subjects younger than 55 years receiving treatment with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole .
Hepatic Dysfunction : No study has been conducted with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
Dipyridamole : In a study conducted with an intravenous formulation of dipyridamole , patients with mild to severe hepatic insufficiency showed no change in plasma concentrations of dipyridamole but showed an increase in the pharmacologically inactive monoglucuronide metabolite .
Dipyridamole can be dosed without restriction as long as there is no evidence of hepatic failure .
Aspirin : Avoid aspirin in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency .
Renal Dysfunction : Dipyridamole : In ESPS2 patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , with creatinine clearances ranging from about 15 mL / min to > 100 mL / min , no changes were observed in the pharmacokinetics of dipyridamole or its glucuronide metabolite if data were corrected for differences in age .
Aspirin : Avoid aspirin in patients with severe renal failure ( glomerular filtration rate < 10 mL / min ) .
Drug Interaction Studies A dedicated drug interaction study was conducted in 60 healthy volunteers to evaluate the effects of omeprazole 80 mg administered once daily on the pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of dipyridamole and the pharmacodynamics ( PD ) of acetylsalicylic acid when coadministered with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole twice daily .
Dipyridamole exposure ( Cmax and AUC ) at steady - state were similar with or without omeprazole coadministration .
The pharmacokinetics of acetylsalicylic acid was not characterized .
However , the antiplatelet activity as measured by arachidonic acid induced platelet aggregation was similar between the treatment arms at steady - state .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility In studies in which dipyridamole was administered in the feed to mice ( up to 111 weeks in males and females ) and rats ( up to 128 weeks in males and up to 142 weeks in females ) , there was no evidence of drug - related carcinogenesis .
The highest dose administered in these studies ( 75 mg / kg / day ) was , on a mg / m2 basis , about equivalent to the maximum recommended daily human oral dose ( MRHD ) in mice and about twice the MRHD in rats .
Combinations of dipyridamole and aspirin ( 1 : 5 ratio ) tested negative in the Ames test , in vivo chromosome aberration tests ( in mice and hamsters ) , oral micronucleus tests ( in mice and hamsters ) and oral dominant lethal test ( in mice ) .
Aspirin , alone , induced chromosome aberrations in cultured human fibroblasts .
Mutagenicity tests of dipyridamole alone with bacterial and mammalian cell systems were negative .
Combinations of dipyridamole and aspirin have not been evaluated for effects on fertility and reproductive performance .
There was no evidence of impaired fertility when dipyridamole was administered to male and female rats at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( about 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A significant reduction in number of corpora lutea with consequent reduction in implantations and live fetuses was , however , observed at 1250 mg / kg ( more than 30 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Aspirin inhibits ovulation in rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES ESPS2 ( European Stroke Prevention Study - 2 ) was a double - blind , placebo - controlled , 24 - month study in which 6602 patients over the age of 18 years had an ischemic stroke ( 76 % ) or transient ischemic attack ( TIA , 24 % ) within three months prior to entry .
Patients were enrolled in 13 European countries between February 1989 and May 1995 and were randomized to one of four treatment groups : Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole 25 mg / 200 mg ; extended - release dipyridamole ( ER - DP ) 200 mg alone ; aspirin ( ASA ) 25 mg alone ; or placebo .
The mean age in this population was 66 . 7 years with 58 % of them being males .
Patients received one capsule twice daily ( morning and evening ) .
Efficacy assessments included analyses of stroke ( fatal or nonfatal ) and death ( from all causes ) as confirmed by a blinded morbidity and mortality assessment group .
There were no differences with regard to efficacy based on age or gender ; patients who were older had a trend towards more events .
Stroke Endpoint Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole reduced the risk of stroke by 22 . 1 % compared to aspirin 50 mg / day alone ( p = 0 . 008 ) and reduced the risk of stroke by 24 . 4 % compared to extended - release dipyridamole 400 mg / day alone ( p = 0 . 002 ) ( Table 3 ) .
Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole reduced the risk of stroke by 36 . 8 % compared to placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Table 3 Summary of First Stroke ( Fatal or Nonfatal ) : ESPS2 : Intent - to - Treat Population Total Number of Patients n Number of Patients With Stroke Within 2 Years n ( % ) Kaplan - Meier Estimate of Survival at 2 Years ( 95 % C . I . ) Gehan - Wilcoxon Test P - value Risk Reduction at 2 Years Odds Ratio ( 95 % C . I . ) Individual Treatment Group Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole 1650 157 ( 9 . 5 % ) 89 . 9 % ( 88 . 4 % , 91 . 4 % ) - - - ER - DP 1654 211 ( 12 . 8 % ) 86 . 7 % ( 85 . 0 % , 88 . 4 % ) - - - ASA 1649 206 ( 12 . 5 % ) 87 . 1 % ( 85 . 4 % , 88 . 7 % ) - - - Placebo 1649 250 ( 15 . 2 % ) 84 . 1 % ( 82 . 2 % , 85 . 9 % ) - - - Pairwise Treatment Group Comparisons Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole vs . ER - DP _ _ _ 0 . 002 b 24 . 4 % 0 . 72 ( 0 . 58 , 0 . 90 ) Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole vs . ASA _ _ _ 0 . 008 b 22 . 1 % 0 . 74 ( 0 . 59 , 0 . 92 ) Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole vs . Placebo _ _ _ < 0 . 001 b 36 . 8 % 0 . 59 ( 0 . 48 , 0 . 73 ) ER - DP vs . Placebo _ _ _ 0 . 036 a 16 . 5 % 0 . 82 ( 0 . 67 , 1 . 00 ) ASA vs . Placebo _ _ _ 0 . 009 b 18 . 9 % 0 . 80 ( 0 . 66 , 0 . 97 ) a0 . 010 < p - value < 0 . 050 ; bp - value < 0 . 010 .
Note : ER - DP = extended - release dipyridamole 200 mg ; ASA = aspirin 25 mg .
The dosage regimen for all treatment groups is BID .
Figure 1 ESPS2 : Cumulative Stroke Rate ( Fatal or Nonfatal ) Over 24 months of Follow - Up [ MULTIMEDIA ] Combined Stroke or Death Endpoint In ESPS2 , aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole reduced the risk of stroke or death by 24 . 2 % compared to placebo .
Aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole reduced the risk of stroke or death by 12 . 1 % compared to aspirin alone and by 10 . 3 % compared to extended - release dipyridamole alone .
These results were not statistically significant .
Death Endpoint The incidence rate of all - cause mortality was 11 . 3 % for aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole , 11 . 0 % for aspirin alone , 11 . 4 % for extended - release dipyridamole alone and 12 . 3 % for placebo alone .
The differences between the aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole , aspirin alone and extended - release dipyridamole alone treatment groups were not statistically significant .
These incidence rates for aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole and aspirin alone are consistent with previous aspirin studies in stroke and TIA patients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules are available as a hard gelatin capsule , with a red colored cap and an ivory - colored body containing yellow colored extended - release pellets incorporating dipyridamole and a white to off white , film coated , circular bi - convex tablet incorporating immediate - release aspirin .
The capsule body is imprinted in black with ‘ PAR ’ on the cap and ‘ 730 ’ on the body Carton of 20 tablets ( 4 tablets per blister pack x 5 ) , NDC 0904 - 7056 - 99 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from excessive moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
• • Risk of Bleeding • Inform patients that as with other antiplatelet agents , there is a general risk of bleeding including intracranial and gastrointestinal bleeding .
Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of bleeding , including occult bleeding .
Tell patients to notify their physician if they are prescribed any drug which may increase risk of bleeding .
• Counsel patients who consume three or more alcoholic drinks daily about the bleeding risks involved with chronic , heavy alcohol use while taking aspirin .
• • Pregnancy • Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during treatment with aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• • Headaches • Some patients may experience headaches upon treatment initiation ; these are usually transient .
In case of intolerable headaches , tell patients to contact their physician .
• • Dosage and Administration • Tell patients that aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules should be swallowed whole , and not chewed or crushed .
If you miss a dose , continue with your next dose on your regular schedule .
Do not take a double dose .
• • Storage Inform patients to protect aspirin and extended - release dipyridamole capsules from moisture .
Dist .
By : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 U . S . A . Mfg . by : Par Formulations Private Limited 9 / 215 , Pudupakkam , Kelambakkam – 603 103 Made in India Mfg . Lic .
No . : TN00002121 OS0007 - 01 - 74 - 03 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number Package / Label Display Panel Aspirin and Extended - Release Dipyridamole Capsules 25 mg / 200 mg 20 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
