Active Ingredient in each drop Purposes Menthol 4 . 8 mg Cough Suppressant Oral Anesthetic Purposes Temporarily relieves : • cough as may occur with a cold • occasional minor irritation and sore throat Purposes Temporarily relieves : • cough as may occur with a cold • occasional minor irritation and sore throat Warnings Sore throat warning : is sore throat is severe , persist for more than 2 days , is accompanied or followed by fever headache , rash , swelling , nausea and vomiting maybe serious consult a doctor promptly .
If sore mouth symptons do not improve in 7 days , see your dentist or doctor promptly .
These symptons may be serious Ask a doctor before use if you have • Persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or ephysema .
• Cough accompanied by excessive pleghm ( mucus ) Stop use and consult doctor if • cough persist for more than 7 days or tends to recur or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious conditions • sore throat is severe or irritation , pain or redness lasts or worsens .
• sore mouth does not improve in 7 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children 6 years and over : allow 2 drops to dissolve slowly in mouth one at a time .
Maybe repeated every two hours as needed or as directed by a doctor .
• Children under 6 years ask a doctor Other information • Store in a cool and dry place • 11 calories per drop corn syrup , sucrose , caramel color , elderflower , honehound , hyssop , lemon balm , liden fiwer , malow , peppermint , sage , thyme , wild thyme , natural flavours [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Questions or to report an adverse event call : 1 617 - 848 - 4560 Monday to Friday : 9 : 00 am to 4 : 00 pm ET [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
