Drug Facts Active Ingredients : Ethanol 62 % Purpose : Antiseptic Uses : • For hand washing to decrease bacteria on skin .
• Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings : • Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
• For external use only • Do not use in eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if redness and irritation develop and persists for more than 72 hours .
• Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact the Poison Control center right away .
Directions : • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
• Do not use other than directed .
Other Information : • Store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) • May discolor certain fabrics .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Citrus Grandis ( Grapefruit ) Peel Oil , Citrus Medica Limonum ( Lemon ) Peel Oil , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Peel Oil , Litsea Cubeba Fruit Oil , Lavandula Hybrida Oil , Juniperus Virginiana Oil , Cananga Odorata Flower Oil , Citrus Aurantifolia ( Lime ) Oil , † Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , † Matricaria Recutita ( Chamomile ) Flower Extract , † Calendula officinalis Flower Extract , † Camellia Sinensis ( White Tea ) Leaf Extract , Glycerin , Limonene * * component of essential oil † organic everyone ® FOR EVERY BODY Smells like grapefruit ( because it is ! )
Real good stuff inside !
We say NOPE to fake fragrances , dyes and fillers .
And YEP to quality ingredients and plant extracts that are vegan and cruelty free .
Why ?
Because we believe in making good products that everyone can enjoy .
For us , that ' s botanical body care that ' s better for you and the planet .
everyone loves clean hands NOPE !
√ no animal testing √ no isopropyl alcohol or benzalkonium chloride √ no synthetic fragrance √ no sketchy fillers √ no harsh chemicals √ no worries !
YEP !
√ plant - based moisturizers √ plant extracts + pure essential oils √ sugar cane - derived alcohol √ vegan + cruelty - free √ 100 % recycled bottle √ family - owned √ made with love !
MADE WITH PLANTS PURE ESSENTIAL OILS 99 . 9 % EFFECTIVE against most common germs Cruelty Free Certified B corporation √ moisturizing ingredients √ vegan √ made with love TREVOR In celebration of Pride , Everyone has made a donation to The Trevor Project .
everyone is welcome ™ Follow us : everyoneproducts EO ® PRODUCTS Small world Trading Co .
San Rafael , CA 94901 Made in the USA From Domestic and Globally Sourced Components 800 - 570 - 3775 eoproducts . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
