ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) Ethyl alcohol 75 % v / v .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purpose Antiseptic Use For use when antibacterial soap and water are not available .
Recommended for repeated use .
Hand sanitizer to help reduce illness causing bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on open skin wounds .
When using this product , keep out or AWAY from eyes , ears , nose and mouth .
In case of unwanted , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and seek help form a licensed doctor or medical professional if rash or irritation occurs as these may be signs of a serious condition or illness .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not use on children less than 2 months of age .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Do not swallow or ingest .
If swallowed , seek medical help and contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Flammable .
Keep away from sources of heat or fire .
May be harmful to some fabrics , wood finishes and plastics .
Do not use on children less than 2 months of age .
on open skin wounds . e WHEN USING keep out of eyes , ears and mouth . In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
STOP USE Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These maybe signs of a serious condition .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help per contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Open packet .
Lightly squeeze the packet into the palm of your hand with enough product to cover both of hands .
Rub hands together , spread product over the backs of each hand , and in between each finger .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other Information Store between 59 - 86 ℉ ( 15 - 30 ℃ ) .
Avoid freezing .
Avoid excessive heat above 104 ℉ ( 40 ℃ ) .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , Carbomer , Aminomethyl Propanol , Hydrogenated castor oil , Tocopheryl acetate PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
