The alcohol hand cleansing wipe is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) • Benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 05 % volume / volume ( v / v ) ) • Water • Menthol • Glycerin The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
, Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 05 % v / v ) Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Alcohol Hand Wipe Use Alchohol Hand Wipe to help reduce bacteria on the skin when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• • Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
• • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Do not apply large areas of skin Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Remove wipe • Wet hands thoroughly with wipe and allow hands dry without wiping .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
• Remove wipe • Wet hands thoroughly with wipe and allow hands dry without wiping .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store at room temprature • May discolor certian fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Water , Menthol , Glycerin Package Label - Principal Display Panel 550 gr NDC : 75501 - 005 - 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
