Indications and Usage : Benefits of lowering blood pressure ( 1 . 1 ) 10 / 2011 Warnings and Precautions , Cyclosporine or Itraconazole ( 5 . 7 ) 02 / 2011 WARNING : AVOID USE IN PREGNANCY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Tekturna as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] WARNING : AVOID USE IN PREGNANCY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Tekturna as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tekturna is a renin inhibitor ( RI ) indicated for : • The treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure ( 1 . 1 ) Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
1 . 1 Hypertension Tekturna is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Tekturna .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Tekturna may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
Use with maximal doses of ACE inhibitors has not been adequately studied .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Majority of effect of given dose substantially attained in 2 weeks ( 2 . 1 ) • May be administered with other anti - hypertensive agents ( 2 . 2 ) • Additive effects with angiotensin - converting enzyme inihibitors ( ACEI ) at maximal doses have not been studied ( 2 . 2 ) • Starting dose : 150 mg once daily with a routine pattern with regard to meals .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled titrate up to 300 mg daily ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 3 ) • No initial dosage adjustment required in the elderly , in patients with mild to severe renal or hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 4 , 12 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Hypertension The usual recommended starting dose of Tekturna is 150 mg once daily .
In patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled , the daily dose may be increased to 300 mg .
Doses above 300 mg did not give an increased blood pressure response but resulted in an increased rate of diarrhea .
The antihypertensive effect of a given dose is substantially attained ( 85 - 90 % ) by 2 weeks .
2 . 2 Use with Other Antihypertensives Tekturna may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
Most exposure to date is with diuretics , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( valsartan ) or a calcium channel blocker ( amlodipine ) .
Aliskiren used together with these drugs has a greater effect at their maximum recommended doses than either drug alone .
It is not known whether additive effects are present when Tekturna is used with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors ( ACEI ) or beta blockers ( BB ) .
2 . 3 Relationship to Meals Patients should establish a routine pattern for taking Tekturna with regard to meals .
High fat meals decrease absorption substantially [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosing inSpecial Populations No adjustment of the starting dose is required in elderly patients , patients with mild - to - severe renal impairment or mild - to - severe hepatic insufficiency .
However , clinical experience in patients with severe renal impairment is limited [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 150 mg light pink biconvex round tablet , imprinted NVR / IL ( Side 1 / Side 2 ) 300 mg light red biconvex ovaloid round tablet , imprinted NVR / IU ( Side 1 / Side 2 ) Tablets : 150 mg , 300 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid neonatal / fetal exposure ( 5 . 1 ) • Head and neck angioedema .
Discontinue use of Tekturna and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypotension in volume and / or salt depleted patients : Correct imbalances before initiating therapy with Tekturna ( 5 . 3 ) • Patients with severe renal dysfunction : Consider periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalances ( 5 . 4 ) • Hyperkalemia : Caution should be exercised when co - administered with ACEI , potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements or other potassium containing salt substitutes ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Fetal / neonatal morbidity and mortality Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
In several dozen published cases , ACE inhibitor use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy was associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
In addition , first trimester use of ACE inhibitors has been associated with birth defects in retrospective data .
5 . 2 Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx has been reported in patients treated with Tekturna and has necessitated hospitalization and intubation .
This may occur at any time during treatment and has occurred in patients with and without a history of angioedema with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor antagonists .
If angioedema involves the throat , tongue , glottis or larynx , or if the patient has a history of upper respiratory surgery , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who experience these effects , even without respiratory distress , require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient to prevent respiratory involvement .
Prompt administration of subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 ml ) and measures to ensure a patent airway may be necessary .
Discontinue Tekturna immediately in patients who develop angioedema , and do not readminister .
5 . 3 Hypotension An excessive fall in blood pressure was rarely seen ( 0 . 1 % ) in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with Tekturna alone in controlled trials and in < 1 % during combination therapy with other antihypertensive agents .
In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those receiving high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with Tekturna .
This condition should be corrected prior to administration of Tekturna , or the treatment should start under close medical supervision .
If an excessive fall in blood pressure occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 4 Impaired Renal Function Patients with greater than moderate renal dysfunction ( creatinine 1 . 7 mg / dL for women and 2 . 0 mg / dL for men and / or estimated GFR < 30 ml / min ) , a history of dialysis , nephrotic syndrome , or renovascular hypertension were excluded from clinical trials of Tekturna in hypertension .
Consider periodic determinations of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalances particularly in patients with severe renal impairment .
5 . 5 Hyperkalemia Increases in serum potassium > 5 . 5 mEq / L were infrequent with Tekturna alone ( 0 . 9 % compared to 0 . 6 % with placebo ) .
However , when used in combination with an ACE inhibitor in a diabetic population , increases in serum potassium were more frequent ( 5 . 5 % ) .
Routine monitoring of electrolytes and renal function is indicated in this population .
Concomitant use of Tekturna with potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , salt substitutes containing potassium , or other drugs that increase potassium levels may lead to increases in serum potassium .
5 . 6 Renal Artery Stenosis No data are available on the use of Tekturna in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a solitary kidney .
5 . 7 Cyclosporine or Itraconazole When aliskiren was given with cyclosporine or itraconazole , the blood concentrations of aliskiren were significantly increased .
Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with cyclosporine or itraconazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction : diarrhea ( incidence 2 . 3 % ) ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1 - 888 - 669 - 6682 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Data described below reflect the evaluation of the safety of Tekturna in more than 6 , 460 patients , including over 1 , 740 treated for longer than 6 months , and more than 1 , 250 patients for longer than 1 year .
In placebo controlled clinical trials , discontinuation of therapy due to a clinical adverse event , including uncontrolled hypertension occurred in 2 . 2 % of patients treated with Tekturna vs . 3 . 5 % of patients given placebo .
Angioedema : Two cases of angioedema with respiratory symptoms were reported with Tekturna use in the clinical studies .
Two other cases of periorbital edema without respiratory symptoms were reported as possible angioedema and resulted in discontinuation .
The rate of these angioedema cases in the completed studies was 0 . 06 % .
In addition , 26 other cases of edema involving the face , hands , or whole body were reported with Tekturna use including 4 leading to discontinuation .
In the placebo controlled studies , however , the incidence of edema involved the face , hands or whole body was 0 . 4 % with Tekturna compared with 0 . 5 % with placebo .
In a long term active control study with Tekturna and HCTZ arms , the incidence of edema involving the face , hand or whole body was 0 . 4 % in both treatment arms [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal : Tekturna produces dose - related gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse reactions .
Diarrhea was reported by 2 . 3 % of patients at 300 mg , compared to 1 . 2 % in placebo patients .
In women and the elderly ( age ≥ 65 ) increases in diarrhea rates were evident starting at a dose of 150 mg daily , with rates for these subgroups at 150 mg comparable to those seen at 300 mg for men or younger patients ( all rates about 2 . 0 - 2 . 3 % ) .
Other GI symptoms included abdominal pain , dyspepsia , and gastroesophageal reflux , although increased rates for abdominal pain and dyspepsia were distinguished from placebo only at 600 mg daily .
Diarrhea and other GI symptoms were typically mild and rarely led to discontinuation .
Cough : Tekturna was associated with a slight increase in cough in the placebo - controlled studies ( 1 . 1 % for any Tekturna use vs . 0 . 6 % for placebo ) .
In active - controlled trials with ACE inhibitor ( ramipril , lisinopril ) arms the rates of cough for the Tekturna arms were about one - third to one - half the rates in the ACE inhibitor arms .
Seizures : Single episodes of tonic - clonic seizures with loss of consciousness were reported in two patients treated with Tekturna in the clinical trials .
One of these patients did have predisposing causes for seizures and had a negative electroencephalogram ( EEG ) and cerebral imaging following the seizures ( for the other patient EEG and imaging results were not reported ) .
Tekturna was discontinued and there was no re - challenge .
The following adverse events occurred in placebo - controlled clinical trials at an incidence of more than 1 % of patients treated with Tekturna , but also occurred at about the same or greater incidence in patients receiving placebo : headache , nasopharyngitis , dizziness , fatigue , upper respiratory tract infection , back pain and cough .
Other adverse effects with increased rates for Tekturna compared to placebo included rash ( 1 % vs . 0 . 3 % ) , elevated uric acid ( 0 . 4 % vs . 0 . 1 % ) , gout ( 0 . 2 % vs . 0 . 1 % ) and renal stones ( 0 . 2 % vs . 0 % ) .
Aliskiren ’ s effect on ECG intervals was studied in a randomized , double - blind , placebo and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin ) , 7 - day repeat dosing study with Holter - monitoring and 12 lead ECGs throughout the interdosing interval .
No effect of aliskiren on QT interval was seen .
Clinical Laboratory Findings In controlled clinical trials , clinically relevant changes in standard laboratory parameters were rarely associated with the administration of Tekturna .
In multiple - dose studies in hypertensive patients , Tekturna had no clinically important effects on total cholesterol , HDL , fasting triglycerides , fasting glucose , or uric acid .
Blood Urea Nitrogen , Creatinine : Minor increases in blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) or serum creatinine were observed in less than 7 % of patients with essential hypertension treated with Tekturna alone vs . 6 % on placebo .
Hemoglobin and Hematocrit : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit ( mean decreases of approximately 0 . 08 g / dL and 0 . 16 volume percent , respectively , for all aliskiren monotherapy ) were observed .
The decreases were dose - related and were 0 . 24 g / dL and 0 . 79 volume percent for 600 mg daily .
This effect is also seen with other agents acting on the renin angiotensin system , such as angiotensin inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers and may be mediated by reduction of angiotensin II which stimulates erythropoetin production via the AT1 receptor .
These decreases led to slight increases in rates of anemia with aliskiren compared to placebo were observed ( 0 . 1 % for any aliskiren use , 0 . 3 % for aliskiren 600 mg daily , vs 0 % for placebo ) .
No patients discontinued therapy due to anemia .
Serum Potassium : Increases in serum potassium > 5 . 5 mEq / L were infrequent in patients with essential hypertension treated with Tekturna alone ( 0 . 9 % compared to 0 . 6 % with placebo ) .
However , when used in combination with an angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor ( ACEI ) in a diabetic population increases in serum potassium were more frequent ( 5 . 5 % ) and routine monitoring of electrolytes and renal function is indicated in this population .
Serum Uric Acid : Aliskiren monotherapy produced small median increases in serum uric acid levels ( about 6 μmol / L ) while HCTZ produced larger increases ( about 30 μmol / L ) .
The combination of aliskiren with HCTZ appears to be additive ( about 40 μmol / L increase ) .
The increases in uric acid appear to lead to slight increases in uric acid - related AEs : elevated uric acid ( 0 . 4 % vs 0 . 1 % ) , gout ( 0 . 2 % vs . 0 . 1 % ) , and renal stones ( 0 . 2 % vs 0 % ) .
CreatineKinase : Increases in creatine kinase of > 300 % were recorded in about 1 % of aliskiren monotherapy patients vs . 0 . 5 % of placebo patients .
Five cases of creatine kinase rises , three leading to discontinuation and one diagnosed as subclinical rhabdomyolysis , and another as myositis , were reported as adverse events with aliskiren use in the clinical trials .
No cases were associated with renal dysfunction .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in aliskiren post - marketing experience .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hypersensitivity : angioedema requiring airway management and hospitalization Peripheral edema Blood creatinine increased 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Cyclosporine : Avoid co - administration of cyclosporine with aliskiren .
Itraconazole : Avoid co - administration of itraconazole with aliskiren .
[ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) . ]
• Cyclosporine : Avoid concomitant use ( 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Itraconazole : Avoid concomitant use ( 7 , 12 . 3 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Nursing Mothers : Adverse reactions may occur in nursing infants ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Categories C ( first trimester ) and D ( second and third trimesters ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
There is no clinical experience with the use of Tekturna in pregnant women .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature in patients who were taking angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
When pregnancy is detected , Tekturna should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure , and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal contractures , craniofacial deformation , and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , and patent ductus arteriosus have also been reported , although it is not clear whether these occurrences were due to exposure to the drug .
In addition , first trimester use of ACE inhibitors , a specific class of drugs acting on the renin - angiotensin system , has been associated with a potential risk of birth defects in retrospective data .
Healthcare professionals that prescribe drugs acting directly on the renin - angiotensin system should counsel women of childbearing potential about the potential risks of these agents during pregnancy .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to a drug acting on the renin - angiotensin system will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses and serial ultrasound examination should be performed to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , Tekturna should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a nonstress test ( NST ) or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware ; however that oligohydraminos may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in - utero exposure to a renin inhibitor should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
[ See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 ) . ]
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether aliskiren is excreted in human breast milk .
Aliskiren was secreted in the milk of lactating rats .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of aliskiren in pediatric patients < 18 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients receiving aliskiren in clinical studies , 1 , 275 ( 19 % ) were 65 years or older and 231 ( 3 . 4 % ) were 75 years or older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data area available related to overdosage in humans .
The most likely manifestation of overdosage would be hypotension .
If symptomatic hypotension occurs , supportive treatment should be initiated .
11 DESCRIPTION Tekturna contains aliskiren hemifumarate , a renin inhibitor , that is provided as tablets for oral administration .
Aliskiren hemifumarate is chemically described as ( 2 S , 4 S , 5 S , 7 S ) - N - ( 2 - carbamoyl - 2 - methylpropyl ) - 5 - amino - 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 7 - diisopropyl - 8 - [ 4 - methoxy - 3 - ( 3 - methoxypropoxy ) phenyl ] - octanamide hemifumarate and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular formula : C30H53N3O6 • 0 . 5 C4H4O4 Aliskiren hemifumarate is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 609 . 8 ( free base - 551 . 8 ) .
It is soluble in phosphate buffer , n - octanol , and highly soluble in water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Renin is secreted by the kidney in response to decreases in blood volume and renal perfusion .
Renin cleaves angiotensinogen to form the inactive decapeptide angiotensin I ( Ang I ) .
Ang I is converted to the active octapeptide angiotensin II ( Ang II ) by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) and non - ACE pathways .
Ang II is a powerful vasoconstrictor and leads to the release of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla and prejunctional nerve endings .
It also promotes aldosterone secretion and sodium reabsorption .
Together , these effects increase blood pressure .
Ang II also inhibits renin release , thus providing a negative feedback to the system .
This cycle , from renin through angiotensin to aldosterone and its associated negative feedback loop , is known as the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) .
Aliskiren is a direct renin inhibitor , decreasing plasma renin activity ( PRA ) and inhibiting the conversion of angiotensinogen to Ang I . Whether aliskiren affects other RAAS components , e . g . , ACE or non - ACE pathways , is not known .
All agents that inhibit the RAAS , including renin inhibitors , suppress the negative feedback loop , leading to a compensatory rise in plasma renin concentration .
When this rise occurs during treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs , the result is increased levels of PRA .
During treatment with aliskiren , however , the effect of increased renin levels is blocked so that PRA , Ang I and Ang II are all reduced , whether aliskiren is used as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In placebo controlled clinical trials , plasma renin activity ( PRA ) was decreased in a range of 50 - 80 % .
This reduction in PRA was not dose - related and did not correlate with blood pressure reductions .
The clinical implications of the differences in effect on PRA are not known .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Aliskiren is poorly absorbed ( bioavailability about 2 . 5 % ) with an approximate accumulation half life of 24 hours .
Steady state blood levels are reached in about 7 - 8 days .
Absorption and Distribution Following oral administration , peak plasma concentrations of aliskiren are reached within 1 – 3 hours .
When taken with a high fat meal , mean AUC and Cmax of aliskiren are decreased by 71 % and 85 % respectively .
In the clinical trials of aliskiren , it was administered without requiring a fixed relation of administration to meals .
Metabolism and Elimination About one fourth of the absorbed dose appears in the urine as parent drug .
How much of the absorbed dose is metabolized is unknown .
Based on the in vitro studies , the major enzyme responsible for aliskiren metabolism appears to be CYP 3A4 .
Aliskiren does not inhibit the CYP450 isoenzymes ( CYP 1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3 A ) or induce CYP 3A4 .
Transporters : Pgp ( MDR1 / Mdr1a / 1 b ) was found to be the major efflux system involved in absorption and disposition of aliskiren in preclinical studies .
The potential for drug interactions at the Pgp site will likely depend on the degree of inhibition of this transporter .
Drug interactions The effect of co - administered drugs on the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren and vice versa , were studied in several single and multiple dose studies .
Pharmacokinetic measures indicating the magnitude of these interactions are presented in Figure 1 ( impact of co - administered drugs on aliskiren ) and Figure 2 ( impact of aliskiren on co - administered drugs ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Warfarin : There was no clinically significant effect of a single dose of warfarin 25 mg on the pharmacokinetics of aliskiren .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Special Populations Renally Impaired Patients : Aliskiren was evaluated in patients with varying degrees of renal insufficiency .
The rate and extent of exposure ( AUC and Cmax ) of aliskiren in subjects with renal impairment did not show a consistent correlation with the severity of renal impairment .
Adjustment of the starting dose is not required in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Hepatically Impaired Patients : The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren were not significantly affected in patients with mild to severe liver disease .
Consequently , adjustment of the starting dose is not required in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of aliskiren have not been investigated in patients < 18 years of age [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Geriatric Patients : Exposure ( measured by AUC ) is increased in elderly patients ≥ 65 years .
Adjustment of the starting dose is not required in these patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Race : The pharmacokinetic differences between Blacks , Caucasians , and the Japanese are minimal .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenic potential was assessed in a 2 - year rat study and a 6 - month transgenic ( rasH2 ) mouse study with aliskiren hemifumarate at oral doses of up to 1500 mg aliskiren / kg / day .
Although there were no statistically significant increases in tumor incidence associated with exposure to aliskiren , mucosal epithelial hyperplasia ( with or without erosion / ulceration ) was observed in the lower gastrointestinal tract at doses of ≥ 750 mg / kg / day in both species , with a colonic adenoma identified in one rat and a cecal adenocarcinoma identified in another , rare tumors in the strain of rat studied .
On a systemic exposure ( AUC0 - 24 hr ) basis , 1500 mg / kg / day in the rat is about 4 times and in the mouse about 1 . 5 times the maximum recommended human dose ( 300 mg aliskiren / day ) .
Mucosal hyperplasia in the cecum or colon of rats was also observed at doses of 250 mg / kg / day ( the lowest tested dose ) as well as at higher doses in 4 - and 13 - week studies .
Aliskiren hemifumarate was devoid of genotoxic potential in the Ames reverse mutation assay with S . typhimurium and E . coli , the in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell chromosomal aberration assay , the in vitroChinese hamster V79 cell gene mutation test and the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Fertility of male and female rats was unaffected at doses of up to 250 mg aliskiren / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum recommended human dose of 300 mg Tekturna / 60 kg on a mg / m2 basis . )
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Reproductive Toxicology Studies : Reproductive toxicity studies of aliskiren hemifumarate did not reveal any evidence of teratogenicity at oral doses up to 600 mg aliskiren / kg / day ( 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MHRD ) of 300 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) in pregnant rats or up to 100 mg aliskiren / kg / day ( 7 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in pregnant rabbits .
Fetal birth weight was adversely affected in rabbits at 50 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Aliskiren was present in placenta , amniotic fluid and fetuses of pregnant rabbits .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Aliskiren Monotherapy The antihypertensive effects of Tekturna have been demonstrated in six randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 8 - week clinical trials in patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension .
The placebo response and placebo - subtracted changes from baseline in seated trough cuff blood pressure are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Reductions in Seated Trough Cuff Blood Pressure in the Placebo - Controlled Studies Aliskiren daily dose , mg Study Placebo mean change 75 150 300 600 Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted 1 2 . 9 / 3 . 3 5 . 7 / 4 * 5 . 9 / 4 . 5 * 11 . 2 / 7 . 5 * -- 2 5 . 3 / 6 . 3 -- 6 . 1 / 2 . 9 * 10 . 5 / 5 . 4 * 10 . 4 / 5 . 2 * 3 10 / 8 . 6 2 . 2 / 1 . 7 2 . 1 / 1 . 7 5 . 1 / 3 . 7 * -- 4 7 . 5 / 6 . 9 1 . 9 / 1 . 8 4 . 8 / 2 * 8 . 3 / 3 . 3 * -- 5 3 . 8 / 4 . 9 -- 9 . 3 / 5 . 4 * 10 . 9 / 6 . 2 * 12 . 1 / 7 . 6 * 6 4 . 6 / 4 . 1 -- -- 8 . 4 / 4 . 9 † -- * p < 0 . 05 vs . placebo by ANCOVA with Dunnett ’ s procedure for multiple comparisons † p < 0 . 05 vs . placebo by ANCOVA for the pairwise comparison .
The studies included approximately 2 , 730 patients given doses of 75 - 600 mg of aliskiren and 1 , 231 patients given placebo .
As shown in Table 1 , there is some increase in response with administered dose in all studies , with reasonable effects seen at 150 - 300 mg , and no clear further increased at 600 mg .
A substantial proportion ( 85 % - 90 % ) of the blood pressure lowering effect was observed within 2 weeks of treatment studies with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring showed reasonable control throughout the interdosing interval ; the ratios of mean daytime to mean nighttime ambulatory BP range from 0 . 6 to 0 . 9 .
Patients in the placebo - controlled trials continued open - label aliskiren for up to one year .
A persistent blood pressure lowering effect was demonstrated by a randomized withdrawal study ( patients randomized to continue drug or placebo ) , which showed a statistically significant difference between patients kept on aliskiren and those randomized to placebo .
With cessation of treatment , blood pressure gradually returned toward baseline levels over a period of several weeks .
There was no evidence of rebound hypertension after abrupt cessation of therapy .
Aliskiren lowered blood pressure in all demographic subgroups , although Black patients tended to have smaller reduction than Caucasians and Asians , as has been seen with ACE inhibitors and ARBs .
There are no studies of Tekturna or members of the direct renin inhibitors demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension .
14 . 2 Aliskiren in Combination with Other Antihypertensives Hydrochlorothiazide Aliskiren 75 , 150 , and 300 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 6 . 25 , 12 . 5 , and 25 mg were studied alone and in combination in an 8 - week , 2 , 776 - patient , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , 15 - arm factorial study .
Blood pressure reductions with the combinations were greater than the reductions with the monotherapies as shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Placebo - Subtracted Reductions in Seated Trough Cuff Blood Pressure in Combination with Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide , mg Aliskiren , mg Placebo mean change 0 6 . 25 12 . 5 25 Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted Placebo - subtracted 0 7 . 5 / 6 . 9 -- 3 . 5 / 2 . 1 6 . 4 / 3 . 2 6 . 8 / 2 . 4 75 -- 1 . 9 / 1 . 8 6 . 8 / 3 . 8 8 . 2 / 4 . 2 9 . 8 / 4 . 5 150 -- 4 . 8 / 2 7 . 8 / 3 . 4 10 . 1 / 5 12 / 5 . 7 300 -- 8 . 3 / 3 . 3 -- 12 . 3 / 7 13 . 7 / 7 . 3 Valsartan Aliskiren 150 and 300 mg and valsartan 160 and 320 mg were studied alone and in combination in an 8 - week , 1 , 797 - patient , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , 4 - arm , dose - escalation study .
The dosages of aliskiren and valsartan were started at 150 and 160 mg , respectively , and increased at four weeks to 300 mg and 320 mg , respectively .
Seated trough cuff blood pressure was measured at baseline , 4 , and 8 weeks .
Blood pressure reductions with the combinations were greater than the reductions with the monotherapies as shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Placebo - Subtracted Reductions in Seated Trough Cuff Blood Pressure in Combination with ValsartanAliskiren , mg Placebo mean change Valsartan , mg 0 160 320 0 4 . 6 / 4 . 1 * -- 5 . 6 / 3 . 9 8 . 2 / 5 . 6 150 -- 5 . 4 / 2 . 7 10 . 0 / 5 . 7 -- 300 -- 8 . 4 / 4 . 9 -- 12 . 6 / 8 . 1 * The placebo change is 5 . 2 / 4 . 8 for week 4 endpoint which was used for the dose groups containing Aliskiren 150 mg or Valsartan 160 mg .
Amlodipine Aliskiren 150 mg and 300 mg and amlodipine besylate 5 mg and 10 mg were studied alone and in combination in an 8 - week , 1 , 685 - patient , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multifactorial study .
Treatment with aliskiren and amlodipine resulted overall in significantly greater reductions in diastolic and systolic blood pressure compared to the respective monotherapy components as shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Placebo - Subtracted Reductions in Seated Trough Cuff Blood Pressure in Combination with AmlodipineAliskiren , mg Placebo mean change Amlodipine , mg 0 5 10 0 5 . 4 / 6 . 8 * -- 5 . 6 / 9 . 0 8 . 5 / 14 . 3 150 -- 2 . 6 / 3 . 9 8 . 6 / 13 . 9 10 . 8 / 17 . 1 300 -- 4 . 9 / 8 . 6 9 . 6 / 15 . 0 11 . 1 / 16 . 4 ACE inhibitors Aliskiren has not been studied when added to maximal doses of ACE inhibitors to determine whether aliskiren produces additional blood pressure reduction .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Tekturna is supplied as a light - pink , biconvex round tablet containing 150 mg of aliskiren , and as a light - red biconvex ovaloid tablet containing 300 mg of aliskiren .
Tablets are imprinted with NVR on one side and IL , IU , on the other side of the 150 , and 300 mg tablets , respectively .
All strengths are packaged in bottles and unit - dose blister packages ( 10 strips or 10 tablets ) as described below in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Tekturna Tablets SupplyTablet Color Imprint Imprint Side 1 Side 2 Bottle of 30 150 mg Light - Pink NVR IL 54868 - 5772 - 0 300 mg Light - Red NVR IU 54868 - 6042 - 0 Store at 25ºC ( 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30ºC ( 59 - 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in original container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Information for Patients Pregnancy : Female patients of child bearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system .
Discuss other treatment options with female patients planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur at any time during treatment with Tekturna .
Patients should be advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physicians .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving Tekturna should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patients should be told that if syncope occurs , Tekturna should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Potassium Supplements : A patient receiving Tekturnashould be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Relationship to Meals : Patients should establish a routine pattern for taking Tekturna with regard to meals .
High - fat meals decrease absorption substantially .
T2011 - 116 FDA approved patient labeling PATIENT INFORMATION Tekturna ( pronounced tek - turn - a ) ( aliskiren ) Tablets Dosing Strengths : 150 mg tablets 300 mg tablets Available by Prescription Only Read the patient information that comes with Tekturna before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not replace talking to your doctor about your condition or treatment .
If you have any questions about Tekturna , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
IMPORTANT WARNING : If you get pregnant , stop taking Tekturna and call your doctor right away .
Tekturna may harm an unborn baby , causing injury and even death .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options before taking Tekturna .
What Is Tekturna ?
Tekturna can help your blood vessels relax and widen so blood pressure is lower .
Tekturna is a type of prescription medicine called a direct renin inhibitor .
By reducing renin , it helps to reduce blood pressure .
What Is High Blood Pressure ( Hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force that pushes the blood through your blood vessels to all the organs of your body .
You have high blood pressure when the force of your blood moving through your blood vessels is too great .
Renin ( pronounced REE - nin ) is a chemical in the body that starts a process that makes blood vessels narrow , leading to high blood pressure .
Drugs that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood throughout the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
If high blood pressure is not treated , it can lead to stroke , heart attack , heart failure , kidney failure , and vision problems .
Who Should Not Take Tekturna ?
• If you get pregnant , stop taking Tekturna and call your doctor right away .
If you plan to become pregnant , talk to your doctor about other treatment options for your high blood pressure .
• Do not take Tekturna if you are allergic to any of its ingredients .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in Tekturna .
• Tekturna has not been studied in children under 18 years of age .
What Should I Tell My Doctor Before Taking Tekturna ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including whether you : • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant , see IMPORTANT WARNING • are breast - feeding .
It is not known if Tekturna passes into your breast milk .
You should choose either to take Tekturna or breast - feed , but not both .
• have kidney problems .
• are allergic to any of the ingredients in Tekturna , see “ what are the ingredients in Tekturna ” • have ever had a reaction called angioedema , to an ACE inhibitor medicine .
Angioedema causes swelling of the face , lips , tongue , throat , arms , and legs , and may cause difficulty breathing .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you are taking : • other medicines for high blood pressure or a heart problem .
• Atorvastatin ( medicine to lower cholesterol in your blood ) .
• water pills ( also called “ diuretics ” ) .
• medicines for treating fungus or fungal infections .
• cyclosporine ( a medicine used to suppress the immune system ) .
• potassium - containing medicines , potassium supplements , or salt substitutes containing potassium .
Your doctor or pharmacist will know what medicines are safe to take together .
How Should I Take Tekturna ?
• Take Tekturna once a day , at the same time each day .
As with any blood pressure medication , it is important to take Tekturna on a regular daily basis exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
• Tekturna can be taken by itself or safely in combination with other medicines to lower high blood pressure .
Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Tekturna can be taken with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is close to your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
• If you take too much Tekturna , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What Are Possible Side Effects Of Tekturna ?
Tekturna may cause serious side effects : • Injury or death to an unborn baby .
See IMPORTANT WARNING .
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Your blood pressure may get too low if you also take water pills , are on a low - salt diet , get dialysis treatments , have heart problems , or get sick with vomiting or diarrhea .
Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
Call your doctor right away .
• Angioedema : Aliskiren can cause swelling of the face , lips , tongue , throat , arms and legs or the whole body .
Get medical help right away and tell your doctor if you get any one or more of these symptoms .
Angioedema can happen at any time while you are taking Tekturna .
Common side effects of Tekturna include : diarrhea cough dizziness headache flu - like symptoms back pain tiredness Less common side effects include rash .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Tekturna .
For a complete list of side effects , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How Do I Store Tekturna ?
• Store Tekturna tablets at room temperature between 59 o to 86 oF ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) .
• Keep Tekturna in the original prescription bottle in a dry place .
Do not remove the desiccant ( drying agent ) from the bottle .
• Keep Tekturna and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information About Tekturna Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions not listed in the patient information leaflet .
Do not take Tekturna for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Tekturna to other people , even if they have the same condition or symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Tekturna .
If you have more questions about Tekturna talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about Tekturna , ask your doctor or pharmacist , visit www . Tekturna . com , or call 1 - 888 - Tekturna ( 1 - 888 - 835 - 8876 ) .
What are the ingredients in Tekturna ?
Active Ingredients : Aliskiren ( Tekturna ) Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicone dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , iron oxide colorants , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Manufactured by : Novartis Pharma AG , Stein , Switzerland Novartis Pharma Produktions GmbH , Wehr , Germany Distributed by : Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover , NJ 07936 © Novartis T2011 - 116 / T2009 - 52 October 2011 / November 2009 Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 150 mg Rx Only NDC 54868 - 5772 - 0 Tekturna ® ( aliskiren ) Tablets 150 mg 30 tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Package Label – 300 mg Rx Only NDC 54868 - 6042 - 0 Tekturna ® ( aliskiren ) Tablets 300 mg 30 tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
