The ALTAIO Sanitizing Wipes is a product manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerin ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer , Surface Sanitizer Use Hand and surface sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • on children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands or surface thoroughly with product and allow to dry .
Discard after single use .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 oC ( 59 - 86 oF ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 oC ( 104 oF ) • Best used within 30 days of opening Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel ALTAIO Sanitizing Wipes 700 CT NDC : 78571 - 003 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
