DESCRIPTION Vitamin B - Complex 100 Injection is a sterile solution for intramuscular or slow intravenous injection comprised of vitamins which may be categorized as belonging to the vitamin B complex group .
Each mL contains : Thiamine Hydrochloride 100 mg , Riboflavin 5 ’ Phosphate Sodium 2 mg , Pyridoxine Hydrochloride 2 mg , Dexpanthenol 2 mg , Niacinamide 100 mg , with Benzyl Alcohol 2 % as preservative , in Water for Injection .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may have been used to adjust pH . INDICATIONS AND USAGE In disorders requiring parenteral administration of vitamins , i . e . pre - and post - operative treatment , when requirements are increased as in fever , severe burns , increased metabolism , pregnancy , gastrointestinal disorders interfering with intake or absorption of vitamins , prolonged or wasting diseases , alcoholism and where other deficiencies exist .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sensitivity to the ingredients listed .
WARNINGS Anaphylactogenesis may occur with parenteral thiamine .
Use with caution .
An intradermal test dose is recommended prior to administration in patients suspected of being sensitive to the drug .
PRECAUTIONS The usual precautions for parenteral administration should be observed .
Do not inject if precipitation occurs .
Inject slowly by the intravenous route .
High concentrations should be diluted using Normal Saline Injection when given intravenously .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Mild transient diarrhea , polycythemia vera , peripheral vascular thrombosis , itching transitory exanthema , feeling of swelling of entire body , anaphylactic shock and death .
Sensitivity to the ingredients listed may occur ( see WARNINGS ) .
Use should be discontinued upon observance of any untoward reaction .
Pain upon intramuscular injection may be noted .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usually 0 . 25 to 2 mL by intramuscular or slow intravenous injection .
High concentrations given intravenously may be diluted using parenteral infusion solutions .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever the solution and container permit ( see HOW SUPPLIED ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitamin B - Complex 100 Injection is available in a 30 mL multiple - dose vial individually boxed .
Phase separation due to reduced solubility can occur under certain conditions of shipping or storage ( e . g . accidental freezing ) , which may produce visible particles .
Do not use product if these do not redissolve on warming to body temperature and shaking well .
Refrigeration of the product may cause darkening of the solution due to the riboflavin content .
The colour does not affect the safety or efficacy of the product .
PROTECT FROM LIGHT : Store in carton until contents are used .
Store under refrigeration 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Do not permit to freeze .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland 0415L107 Revised : 9 / 2021 MI : VITBIJ : R4 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL NDC 67457 - 146 - 30 30 mL Vitamin B - Complex 100 Injection For Intramuscular or Slow Intravenous Use Rx only Multi - Dose Vial Sterile Each mL contains : Thiamine HCl 100 mg , Riboflavin 5 ' Phosphate Sodium 2 mg , Pyridoxine HCl 2 mg , Dexpanthenol 2 mg , Niacinamide 100 mg , with Benzyl Alcohol 2 % as preservative , in Water for Injection .
Sodium Hydroxide and / or Hydrochloric Acid may have been used to adjust pH . Warning : Anaphylactogenesis to parenteral thiamine has been reported .
Use with caution .
Usual Dosage : See accompanying prescribing information .
STORE UNDER REFRIGERATION 2 ° TO 8 ° C ( 36 ° TO 46 ° F ) .
DO NOT FREEZE .
Protect from light .
Store in carton until contents are used .
Manufactured for : Mylan Institutional LLC Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : Mylan Institutional Galway , Ireland MI : 146 : 1 C : R4 Mylan . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
