Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Nasal decongestant Uses • • temporarily relieves • • nasal and sinus congestion • • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold Warnings Do not use • • in a child under 4 years of age • • in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if the child ’ s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask doctor before use if the child has • • heart disease • • high blood pressure • • thyroid disease • • diabetes • • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • • chronic cough that lasts , or as occurs with asthma When using this product • • do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask a doctor if • • nervousness , dizziness or sleeplessness occurs • • symptoms do not improve within 7 days or occur with a fever • • cough persists for more than 7 days , comes back or occurs with a fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • may be given every 4 hours .
Do not give more than 6 doses in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor • • use enclosed dosing cup only .
Keep for use with this product only .
Do not use any other dosing device .
Age Dose children under 4 years of age do not use children 4 to under 6 years of age 5 mL children 6 to under 12 years of age 10 mL Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , anhydrous citric acid , edetate disodium , FD & C red no . 40 , flavor , maltitol solution , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 800 - 452 - 0051 Principal Display Panel NDC 0067 - 8105 - 04 Children ' s Triaminic ® Syrup Day Time Cold & Cough Ages 4 to 11 Years Dextromethorphan HBr ( Cough Suppressant ) Phenylephrine HCl ( Nasal Decongestant ) * Stuffy Nose * Cough Cherry FLAVOR 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) Child - Resistant Safety Cap .
Do not use if printed neckband is broken or missing .
What You Need to Help Make Your Child Feel Better The Triaminic ® brand provides a broad range of products , created with the needs of children in mind .
Trusted by Parents for over 50 years .
For more information plus helpful tips visit www . triaminic . com or call The Triaminic Clinic ® , 1 - 800 - KIDS - 987 .
PARETNS : Learn about teen medicine abuse www . StopMedicineAbuse . org Distributed by : GSK Consumer Healthcare , Warren , NJ 07059 Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
© 2016 GSK group of companies or its licensor .
All rights reserved .
12677 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
