Drug Facts Active ingredient Terbinafine hydrochloride 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) • cures most jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • relieves itching , burning , cracking and scaling which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use • on nails or scalp • in or near the mouth or eyes • for vaginal yeast infections When using this product do not get into the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if too much irritation occurs or gets worse .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • use the tip of the cap to break the seal and open the tube • wash the affected skin with soap and water and dry completely before applying • for athlete ' s foot wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes .
Change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• between the toes only : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • on the bottom or sides of the foot : apply twice a day ( morning and night ) for 2 weeks or as directed by a doctor • for jock itch and ringworm : apply once a day ( morning or night ) for 1 week or as directed by a doctor • wash hands after each use • children under 12 years : ask a doctor 1 week between the toes 2 weeks on the bottom or sides of the foot [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • do not use if seal on tube is broken or is not visible • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients benzyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , isopropyl myristate , polysorbate 60 , purified water , sodium hydroxide , sorbitan monostearate , stearyl alcohol .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60007 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Carton TopCare ® health ™ FULL PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH Athlete ' s Foot Cream TERBINAFINE HYDROCHLORIDE CREAM 1 % • ANTIFUNGAL • OUR PHARMACISTS RECOMMEND • NET WT 0 . 5 OZ ( 15 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
