Benzocaine 20 % Pain reliever For the temporary relief of pain due to minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances or injury to mouth and gums .
Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried to the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immedicate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Alllergy alert : Do not use if you have a history of allergy to local anetsthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine : anesthetics .
Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use .
Do not use • if you are allergic to aspirin or any other pain reliever / fever reducer • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor before use if • you have liver disease • the stomach bleeding warning applies to you • you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , or kidney disease • you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist beforeuse if you are taking a prescription drug for gout , diabetes or arthritis Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
• you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feel faint • vomit blood • have bloody or black stools • have stomach pain that does not get better • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • ringing in the ears or loss of hearing occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Adults and children12 years and over : • remove cap , break metal seal with cap point • apply directly to the gums or to the denture surface that comes in contact with the affected area of the gums • if you are using the dentures , wait a few minutes then reinsert dentures and you may use your regular denture adhesive with this product • use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 12 years : consult a dentist or doctor cellulose gum , D & C red no . 30 lake , eugneol , FD & C blue no . 1 lake , oxyquinoline sulfate , petrolatum ( 245 - 003 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
