This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % Purpose Antimicrobial Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use in or near the eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact , rinse thoroughly with water .
Do not use in the mouth , mucous membrane , or open skin wound as it may cause irritation .
Take precaution when using if allergic to Propylene Glycol .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Other information • Store between 1 - 30 C ( 33 - 86 F ) Inactive ingredients WAter , Triethanolamine , Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Glycerol , Propylene Glycol , D - Panthenol , Polyacrylic Acid , Lemon , DL - alpha - Tocopherol Acetate Package Label - Principal Display Panel 500 mL NDC : 77973 - 800 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
