Rx only DESCRIPTION Nystatin is an antimycotic polyene antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
Its structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin tablets are provided for oral administration as coated tablets containing 500 , 000 units nystatin .
Inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , carnauba wax , corn starch , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red No . 40 Aluminum Lake , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Gastrointestinal absorption of nystatin is insignificant .
Most orally administered nystatin is passed unchanged in the stool .
In patients with renal insufficiency receiving oral therapy with conventional dosage forms , significant plasma concentrations of nystatin may occasionally occur .
Microbiology Nystatin is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi .
Candida albicans demonstrates no significant resistance to nystatin in vitro on repeated subculture in increasing levels of nystatin ; other Candida species become quite resistant .
Generally , resistance does not develop in vivo .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible Candida species with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin tablets are intended for the treatment of non - esophageal mucus membrane gastrointestinal candidiasis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin tablets are contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General This medication is not to be used for the treatment of systemic mycoses .
Discontinue treatment if sensitization or irritation is reported during use .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nystatin .
It is also not known whether nystatin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Nystatin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when nystatin is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nystatin is well tolerated even with prolonged therapy .
Oral irritation and sensitization have been reported .
( See PRECAUTIONS : General . )
Gastrointestinal Diarrhea ( including one case of bloody diarrhea ) , nausea , vomiting , gastrointestinal upset / disturbances .
Dermatologic Rash , including urticaria has been reported rarely .
Stevens - Johnson syndrome has been reported very rarely .
Other Tachycardia , bronchospasm , facial swelling , and nonspecific myalgia have also been rarely reported .
OVERDOSAGE Oral doses of nystatin in excess of five million units daily have caused nausea and gastrointestinal upset .
There have been no reports of serious toxic effects of superinfections ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual therapeutic dosage is one to two tablets ( 500 , 000 to 1 , 000 , 000 units nystatin ) three times daily .
Treatment should generally be continued for at least 48 hours after clinical cure to prevent relapse .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin tablets , USP 500 , 000 units , are round , brown , film coated , debossed MP 83 .
Available as follows : Bottles of 30 NDC 33261 - 0896 - 30 Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] DISPENSE IN TIGHT , LIGHT - RESISTANT CONTAINER .
Manufactured by : MUTUAL PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY , INC .
Philadelphia , PA 19124 USA Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 Rev 01 , July 2009 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tablet Bottle NDC 33261 - 0896 - 30 NYSTATIN TABLETS USP ( ORAL ) 500 , 000 units 30 TABLETS Rx only MUTUAL PHARMACEUTICAL CO . , INC .
PHILADELPHIA , PA 19124 USA Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals LLC , Corona , CA 92880 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
