This is a Isorpopyl Alcohol manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The Isopropyl Alcohol is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 96 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an liquid solution denatured The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 96 % v / v .
Purpose : First aid Antiseptic Purpose First Aid Antiseptic Use First aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • do not use with electricautery procedures When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area , apply small amount of this product 1 to 3 times daily .
• May be covered with a sterile bandaged , let dry first .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive Ingredient Purified Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 743 mL NDC : 77196 - 004 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
