Drug Facts DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION : Prior to use , the applicator stick may be bent or shaped to allow easier access to the target area .
The medicated end of the applicator should be moistened in clean water and applied to the affected tissue .
One applicator is normally sufficient for each application .
The strength of the action is controlled by the amount of water used to moisten the tip .
The applicator action can be stopped by washing the area with a saline solution ( 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ) .
USES : Caustic applicators are useful for cauterization of skin or mucous membrane and for the removal of granulation tissue , warts and verrucae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS & ANTIDOTES : Caustic applicators must not be used for genital warts .
Continued application to mucous membranes and open wounds leads to argyria , a bluish - black discoloration of the skin due to depositions of granules of silver compounds in the connective tissues .
This condition persists indefinitely or disappears very slowly .
Poisoning by oral ingestion is unlikely with the quantities involved , but treatment for poisoning is the immediate ingestion of large amounts of salt water followed by an emetic .
Then administer a dose of Epsom Salts followed with milk .
Immediately call a physician .
CAUTION : Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
CAUTION : Federal ( USA ) law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Keep out of reach of children .
Do not use on or near eyes .
Do not use on genital warts .
Avoid storage in direct sunlight / fluorescent lighting and store in a cool , dry , and well - ventilated area .
Store at room temperature in the closed package , in a dry place protected from light .
Exposure to light will cause the silver nitrate tip to turn black , but will not affect the product ' s potency .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 777 - 4908 Distributed by McKesson Medical - Surgical Inc .
Richmond , VA 23233 NDC 68599 - 6303 - 8 McKESSON Silver Nitrate Applicators SILVER NITRATE 75 % | POTASSIUM NITRATE 25 % 6 in FLEXIBLE CAUSTIC APPLICATOR 100 PER VIAL 10 VIALS PER BOX DO NOT REUSE Rx ONLY MFR # 63 - 4100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
