DESCRIPTION Chemically , Meclizine HCl is 1 - ( p - chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] C25H27ClN2 • 2 HCl • H2O Molecular Weight 481 . 88 Meclizine hydrochloride tablets , USP are available in two different strengths : 12 . 5 mg and 25 mg .
In addition each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Croscarmellose Sodium , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose .
Also , Meclizine hydrochloride tablets USP , 12 . 5 mg contains FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake ( 11 - 13 % ) and Meclizine hydrochloride tablets USP , 25 mg contains D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake ( 15 - 20 % ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meclizine hydrochloride is an antihistamine that shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for meclizine following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median Tmax value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for meclizine in humans are unknown .
Metabolism The metabolic fate of meclizine in humans is unknown .
In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of meclizine .
The genetic polymorphism of CYP2D6 that results in extensive - , poor - , intermediate - and ultra - rapid metabolizer phenotypes could contribute to large inter - individual variability in meclizine exposure .
Elimination Meclizine has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 - 6 hours in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Since drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
PRECAUTIONS Pediatric Use Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 - 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that meclizine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , meclizine , or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when meclizine is administered to a nursing woman .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
As meclizine undergoes metabolism , hepatic impairment may result in increased systemic exposure of the drug .
Treatment with meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
Due to a potential for drug / metabolite accumulation , meclizine should be administered with caution in patients with renal impairment and in the elderly as renal function generally declines with age .
Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , tranquilizers , and sedatives .
( see WARNINGS ) .
Based on in - vitro evaluation , meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 800 - 313 - 4623 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For the treatment of vertigo associated with diseases affecting the vestibular system , the recommended dose is 25 to 100 mg daily , in divided dosage , depending upon clinical response .
HOW SUPPLIED Meclizine hydrochloride tablets , USP are available in the following strengths : 12 . 5 mg ( Blue , oval shaped tablets , debossed with “ TL 122 ” with score on one side and plain on the other side . )
25 mg ( Yellow , oval shaped tablets , debossed with “ TL 121 ” with score on one side and plain on the other side . )
They are supplied by DOH CENTRAL PHARMACY as follows : NDC Strength Quantity / Form Color Source Prod .
Code 53808 - 1116 - 1 25 MG 30 Tablets in a Blister Pack YELLOW 59746 - 121 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By : Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Salisbury , MD 21801 , USA This Product was Repackaged By : DOH CENTRAL PHARMACY 104 HAMILTON PARK DR # 2 TALLAHASSEE , FL 32304 USA PACKAGE LABEL Label Image for 53808 - 1116 25 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
