WARNING : RISK OF SERIOUS DEHYDRATION IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS • IBSRELA is contraindicated in patients less than 6 years of age ; in nonclinical studies in young juvenile rats administration of tenapanor caused deaths presumed to be due to dehydration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• Avoid use of IBSRELA in patients 6 years to less than 12 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• The safety and effectiveness of IBSRELA have not been established in patients less than 18 years of age [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
WARNING : RISK OF SERIOUS DEHYDRATION IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• IBSRELA is contraindicated in patients less than 6 years of age ; in young juvenile rats , tenapanor caused death presumed to be due to dehydration .
( 4 , 8 . 4 ) • Avoid use of IBSRELA in patients 6 years to less than 12 years of age .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • The safety and effectiveness of IBSRELA have not been established in pediatric patients less than 18 years of age .
( 8 . 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE IBSRELA is indicated for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation ( IBS - C ) in adults .
IBSRELA is a sodium / hydrogen exchanger 3 ( NHE3 ) inhibitor indicated for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation ( IBS - C ) in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of IBSRELA in adults is 50 mg orally twice daily .
• The recommended dosage in adults is 50 mg , orally twice daily .
( 2 ) • Take immediately prior to breakfast or the first meal of the day and immediately prior to dinner .
( 2 ) Administration Instructions • Take IBSRELA immediately prior to breakfast or the first meal of the day and immediately prior to dinner [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
• If a dose is missed , skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 50 mg tenapanor supplied as an oval , white to off - white tablet debossed with " [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 " on one side and " 5791 " on the other side .
Tablets : 50 mg tenapanor .
( 3 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS IBSRELA is contraindicated in : • Patients less than 6 years of age due to the risk of serious dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
• Patients with known or suspected mechanical gastrointestinal obstruction .
• Pediatric patients less than 6 years of age .
( 4 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Patients with known or suspected mechanical gastrointestinal obstruction .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Diarrhea : Patients may experience severe diarrhea .
If severe diarrhea occurs , suspend dosing and rehydrate patient .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Serious Dehydration in Pediatric Patients IBSRELA is contraindicated in patients below 6 years of age .
The safety and effectiveness of IBSRELA in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
In young juvenile rats ( less than 1 week old ; approximate human age equivalent of less than 2 years of age ) , decreased body weight and deaths occurred , presumed to be due to dehydration , following oral administration of tenapanor .
There are no data available in older juvenile rats ( human age equivalent 2 years to less than 12 years ) .
Avoid the use of IBSRELA in patients 6 years to less than 12 years of age .
Although there are no data in older juvenile rats , given the deaths in younger rats and the lack of clinical safety and efficacy data in pediatric patients , avoid the use of IBSRELA in patients 6 years to less than 12 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Diarrhea Diarrhea was the most common adverse reaction in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials of IBS - C .
Severe diarrhea was reported in 2 . 5 % of IBSRELA - treated patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
If severe diarrhea occurs , suspend dosing and rehydrate patient .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) are diarrhea , abdominal distension , flatulence and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ardelyx at 1 - 844 - 427 - 7352 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety data described below reflect data from 1203 adult patients with IBS - C in two randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) .
Patients were randomized to receive placebo or IBSRELA 50 mg twice daily for up to 52 weeks .
Demographic characteristics were comparable between treatment groups in the two trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions reported in at least 2 % of patients in IBSRELA - treated patients and at an incidence greater than placebo during the 26 - week double - blind placebo - controlled treatment period of Trial 1 are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Most Common Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] in Patients with IBS - C in Trial 1 ( 26 Weeks ) Adverse Reactions IBSRELA N = 293 % Placebo N = 300 % Diarrhea 16 4 Abdominal Distension 3 < 1 Flatulence 3 1 Dizziness 2 < 1 [ 1 ] Reported in at least 2 % of patients in IBSRELA - treated patients and at an incidence greater than placebo The adverse reaction profile was similar during the 12 - week double - blind placebo - controlled treatment period of Trial 2 ( 610 patients : 309 IBSRELA - treated and 301 placebo - treated ) with diarrhea ( 15 % with IBSRELA vs 2 % with placebo ) and abdominal distension ( 2 % with IBSRELA vs 0 % with placebo ) as the most common adverse reactions .
Adverse Reaction of Special Interest – Severe Diarrhea Severe diarrhea was reported in 2 . 5 % of IBSRELA - treated patients compared to 0 . 2 % of placebo - treated patients during the 26 weeks of Trial 1 and the 12 weeks of Trial 2 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Patients with Renal Impairment In Trials 1 and 2 , there were 368 patients ( 31 % ) with baseline renal impairment ( defined as eGFR less than 90 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) .
In patients with renal impairment , diarrhea , including severe diarrhea , was reported in 20 % ( 39 / 194 ) of IBSRELA - treated patients and 0 . 6 % ( 1 / 174 ) of placebo - treated patients .
In patients with normal renal function at baseline , diarrhea , including severe diarrhea , was reported in 13 % ( 53 / 407 ) of IBSRELA - treated patients and 3 . 5 % ( 15 / 426 ) of placebo - treated patients .
No other differences in the safety profile were reported in the renally impaired subgroup .
The incidence of diarrhea and severe diarrhea in IBSRELA - treated patients did not correspond to the severity of renal impairment .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 7 . 6 % of IBSRELA - treated patients and 0 . 8 % of placebo - treated patients during the 26 weeks of Trial 1 and the 12 weeks of Trial 2 .
The most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation was diarrhea : 6 . 5 % of IBSRELA - treated patients compared to 0 . 7 % of placebo - treated patients .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Adverse reactions reported in less than 2 % of IBSRELA - treated patients and at an incidence greater than placebo during the 26 weeks of Trial 1 and the 12 weeks of Trial 2 were : rectal bleeding and abnormal gastrointestinal sounds .
Hyperkalemia In a trial of another patient population with chronic kidney disease ( defined by eGFR from 25 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) and Type 2 diabetes mellitus , three serious adverse reactions of hyperkalemia resulting in hospitalization were reported in 3 patients ( 2 IBSRELA - treated patients and 1 placebo - treated patient ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS OATP2B1 Substrates : Potential for reduced exposure of the concomitant drug ( e . g . , enalapril ) .
Monitor for signs related to loss of efficacy and adjust the dosage of the concomitantly administered drug as needed .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1OATP2B1 Substrates Tenapanor is an inhibitor of intestinal uptake transporter , OATP2B1 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Drugs which are substrates of OATP2B1 may have reduced exposures when concomitantly taken with IBSRELA .
Monitor for signs related to loss of efficacy and adjust the dosage of concomitantly administered drug as needed .
Enalapril is a substrate of OATP2B1 .
When enalapril was coadministered with tenapanor ( 30 mg twice daily for five days , a dosage 0 . 6 times the recommended dosage ) , the peak exposure ( Cmax ) of enalapril and its active metabolite , enalaprilat , decreased by approximately 70 % and total systemic exposures ( AUC ) decreased by approximately 50 % to 65 % compared to when enalapril was administered alone [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor blood pressure and increase the dosage of enalapril , if needed , when IBSRELA is coadministered with enalapril .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Tenapanor is minimally absorbed systemically , with plasma concentrations below the limit of quantification ( less than 0 . 5 ng / mL ) following oral administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
The available data on IBSRELA exposure from a small number of pregnant women have not identified any drug associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In reproduction studies with tenapanor in pregnant rats and rabbits , no adverse fetal effects were observed in rats at 0 . 1 times the maximum recommended human dose and in rabbits at doses up to 8 . 8 times the maximum recommended human dose ( based on body surface area ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the United States general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryofetal development study in rats , tenapanor was administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at dose levels of 1 , 10 and 30 mg / kg / day .
Tenapanor doses of 10 and 30 mg / kg / day were not tolerated by the pregnant rats and was associated with mortality and moribundity with body weight loss .
The 10 and 30 mg / kg dose group animals were sacrificed early , and the fetuses were not examined for intrauterine parameters and fetal morphology .
No adverse fetal effects were observed in rats at 1 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 1 times the maximum recommended human dose ) and in rabbits at doses up to 45 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 . 8 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on body surface area ) .
In a pre - and post - natal developmental study in mice , tenapanor at doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 9 . 7 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on body surface area ) had no effect on pre - and post - natal development .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available on the presence of tenapanor in either human or animal milk , its effects on milk production or its effects on the breastfed infant .
Tenapanor is minimally absorbed systemically , with plasma concentrations below the limit of quantification ( less than 0 . 5 ng / mL ) following oral administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The minimal systemic absorption of tenapanor will not result in a clinically relevant exposure to breastfed infants .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for IBSRELA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from IBSRELA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use IBSRELA is contraindicated in patients less than 6 years of age .
Avoid IBSRELA in patients 6 years to less than 12 years of age [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of IBSRELA in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
In nonclinical studies , deaths occurred in young juvenile rats ( less than 1 week - old - rats approximate human age equivalent of less than 2 years of age ) following oral administration of tenapanor , as described below in Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data In a 21 - day oral dose range finding toxicity study in juvenile rats , tenapanor was administered to neonatal rats ( post - natal day ( PND ) 5 ) at doses of 5 and 10 mg / kg / day .
Tenapanor was not tolerated in male and female pups and the study was terminated on PND 16 due to mortalities and decreased body weight ( 24 % to 29 % reduction in females at the respective dose groups and 33 % reduction in males in the 10 mg / kg / day group , compared to control ) .
In a second dose range finding study , tenapanor doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 , or 5 mg / kg / day were administered to neonatal rats from PND 5 through PND 24 .
Treatment - related mortalities were observed at 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 , and 5 mg / kg / day doses .
These premature deaths were observed as early as PND 8 , with majority of deaths occurring between PND 15 and 25 .
In the 5 mg / kg / day group , mean body weights were 47 % lower for males on PND 23 and 35 % lower for females on PND 22 when compared to the controls .
Slightly lower mean tibial lengths ( 5 % to 11 % ) were noted in males and females in the 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 , and 5 mg / kg / day dose groups on PND 25 and correlated with the decrements in body weight noted in these groups .
Lower spleen , thymus , and / or ovarian weights were noted at the 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 and 5 mg / kg / day doses .
Tenapanor - related gastrointestinal distension and microscopic bone findings of increased osteoclasts , eroded bone , and / or decreased bone in sternum and / or femorotibial joint were noted in males and females in the 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 and 5 mg / kg / day dose groups [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 1203 patients in placebo - controlled clinical trials of IBSRELA , 100 ( 8 % ) were 65 years of age and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 OVERDOSAGE Based on nonclinical data , overdose of IBSRELA may result in gastrointestinal adverse effects such as diarrhea as a result of exaggerated pharmacology with a risk for dehydration if diarrhea is severe or prolonged [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION IBSRELA ( tenapanor ) tablets contain tenapanor hydrochloride as an active ingredient .
Tenapanor hydrochloride is a sodium / hydrogen exchanger 3 ( NHE3 ) inhibitor for oral use .
The chemical name for tenapanor hydrochloride is 12 , 15 - Dioxa - 2 , 7 , 9 - triazaheptadecanamide , 17 - [ [ [ 3 - [ ( 4 S ) - 6 , 8 - dichloro - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - 2 - methyl - 4 - isoquinolinyl ] phenyl ] sulphonyl ] amino ] - N - [ 2 - [ 2 - [ 2 - [ [ [ 3 - [ ( 4 S ) - 6 , 8 - dichloro - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrahydro - 2 - methyl - 4 - isoquinolinyl ] phenyl ] sulphonyl ] amino ] ethoxy ] ethoxy ] ethyl ] - 8 - oxo - , hydrochloride ( 1 : 2 ) .
Tenapanor hydrochloride has the molecular formula of C50H68Cl6N8O10S2 , the molecular weight of 1218 Daltons , and the chemical structure below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tenapanor hydrochloride is a white to off - white to light brown hygroscopic amorphous solid .
It is practically insoluble in water .
IBSRELA tablets contain 50 mg of tenapanor ( equivalent to 53 . 2 mg of tenapanor hydrochloride ) .
Inactive ingredients in the tablet are colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , propyl gallate , stearic acid , tartaric acid powder , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tenapanor is a locally acting inhibitor of the sodium / hydrogen exchanger 3 ( NHE3 ) , an antiporter expressed on the apical surface of the small intestine and colon primarily responsible for the absorption of dietary sodium .
In vitro and animal studies indicate its major metabolite , M1 , is not active against NHE3 .
By inhibiting NHE3 on the apical surface of the enterocytes , tenapanor reduces absorption of sodium from the small intestine and colon , resulting in an increase in water secretion into the intestinal lumen , which accelerates intestinal transit time and results in a softer stool consistency .
Tenapanor has also been shown to reduce abdominal pain by decreasing visceral hypersensitivity and by decreasing intestinal permeability in animal models .
In rat model of colonic hypersensitivity , tenapanor reduced visceral hyperalgesia and normalized colonic sensory neuronal excitability .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At 3 times the mean maximum exposure of M1 at the recommended dosage , there were no clinically relevant effects on the QTc interval .
Food Effect Administration of IBSRELA 5 to 10 minutes before a meal increased the 24 - hour stool sodium excretion compared to taking IBSRELA in the fed or fasting condition [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
In clinical trials , IBSRELA was administered immediately prior to the first meal of the day and immediately prior to dinner .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Tenapanor is minimally absorbed following repeated twice daily oral administration .
Plasma concentrations of tenapanor were below the limit of quantitation ( less than 0 . 5 ng / mL ) in the majority of samples from healthy subjects following single and repeated oral administration of IBSRELA 50 mg twice daily .
Therefore , standard pharmacokinetic parameters such as area under the curve ( AUC ) , maximum concentration ( Cmax ) , and half - life ( t1 / 2 ) could not be determined .
Distribution Plasma protein binding of tenapanor and its major metabolite , M1 , is approximately 99 % and 97 % , respectively , in vitro .
Elimination Metabolism Tenapanor is metabolized primarily by CYP3A4 / 5 and low levels of its major metabolite , M1 , are detected in plasma .
The Cmax of M1 is approximately 13 ng / mL after single dose of IBSRELA 50 mg and 15 ng / mL at steady state following repeated dosing of IBSRELA 50 mg twice daily in healthy subjects .
Excretion Following administration of a single 15 mg radiolabeled 14 C - tenapanor dose to healthy subjects , approximately 70 % of the radioactivity was excreted in feces within 120 hours post - dose and 79 % within 240 hours post - dose , mostly as the parent drug accounting for 65 % of dose within 144 hours post - dose .
Approximately 9 % of the administered dose was recovered in urine , primarily as metabolites .
M1 is excreted in urine unchanged accounting for 1 . 5 % of dose within 144 hours post - dose .
Specific Populations Patients with Hepatic Impairment Following a single dose of tenapanor 100 mg in patients with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh B ) , plasma concentrations of tenapanor were mostly below the limit of quantitation ( < 0 . 5 ng / mL ) and the pharmacokinetic parameters for tenapanor could not be determined .
The geometric mean AUC and Cmax of the major metabolite , M1 , were approximately 33 % and 27 % lower , respectively , in patients with moderate hepatic impairment compared to those of healthy subjects .
The decrease in M1 systemic exposure is not clinically relevant .
Patients with Renal Impairment Based on a cross - study comparison , plasma concentrations of M1 in end - stage renal disease patients on hemodialysis ( eGFR less than 15 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) was not notably different from those of healthy subjects given comparable doses of IBSRELA .
Drug Interaction Studies CYP Metabolism Mediated Drug Interactions Tenapanor and M1 did not inhibit CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , and CYP2D6 in vitro .
Tenapanor and M1 did not induce CYP1A2 and CYP2B6 in vitro .
No significant inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 enzyme using midazolam as a substrate was observed when IBSRELA 50 mg was administered twice a day for 13 days in healthy subjects .
Following co - administration of a single dose of IBSRELA 50 mg with repeated doses of itraconazole 200 mg , a CYP3A4 inhibitor , the mean AUC and Cmax of M1 was decreased 50 % in healthy subjects .
The decrease in M1 systemic exposure is not clinically relevant .
Plasma concentrations of tenapanor were mostly below the limit of quantitation ( less than 0 . 5 ng / mL ) after co - administration of itraconazole .
No significant effect on CYP2C9 activity using warfarin as a substrate was observed when tenapanor 30 mg was administered twice a day ( a dosage 0 . 6 times the recommended dosage ) for 12 days in healthy subjects .
Membrane Transporter Mediated Drug Interactions Tenapanor inhibited OATP2B1 , but is not an inhibitor of P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 .
M1 did not inhibit P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 , and MATE2 - K .
M1 is a substrate of P - gp .
Tenapanor is not a substrate of P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 , and OATP1B3 .
M1 is not a substrate of BCRP , OAT1 , OAT3 , OCT2 , MATE1 and MATE2 - K .
No significant effect on PepT1 activity using cefadroxil as a substrate was observed when IBSRELA 50 mg was administered twice a day for 12 days in healthy subjects .
No significant effect on P - gp activity using digoxin as a substrate was observed when tenapanor 30 mg was administered twice a day ( a dosage 0 . 6 times the recommended dosage ) for 12 days in healthy subjects .
Following administration of a single 20 mg dose of enalapril ( OATP2B1 substrate ) with tenapanor 30 mg administered twice a day ( a dosage 0 . 6 times the recommended dosage ) at steady state in healthy subjects , the mean AUC and Cmax of enalapril was decreased by 64 % and 69 % , respectively .
The mean AUC and Cmax of enalaprilat was decreased by 52 % and 68 % , respectively [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis The carcinogenic potential of tenapanor was assessed in a 6 - month carcinogenicity study in Tg rasH2 mice and in a 2 - year carcinogenicity study in rats .
Tenapanor was not tumorigenic at oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 4 . 5 times the recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) in male mice and 800 mg / kg / day ( approximately 39 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) for female mice .
Tenapanor was not tumorigenic in male and female rats at oral doses up to 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 5 times the recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) .
The major metabolite of tenapanor , M1 , was not tumorigenic in Tg rasH2 mice at oral doses up to 165 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) Mutagenesis Tenapanor was not genotoxic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assays , an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in cultured human peripheral blood lymphocytes or the in vivo micronucleus assays in mice and rats .
Impairment of Fertility Tenapanor had no effect on fertility or reproductive function in male rats at oral doses up to 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 97 times the recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) and in female mice at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 . 4 times the recommended human dose , based on the body surface area ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of IBSRELA for the treatment of IBS - C was established in two double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , multicenter trials in adult patients : Trial 1 ( TEN - 01 - 302 ; NCT02686138 ) and Trial 2 ( TEN - 01 - 301 ; NCT02621892 ) .
The intent - to - treat ( ITT ) analysis population included 620 patients in Trial 1 and 606 patients in Trial 2 with mean age of 46 years ( range 18 to 75 years ) , 80 % females , 64 % White and 31 % Black / African American .
In these clinical trials , IBSRELA was administered immediately prior to breakfast or the first meal of the day and immediately prior to dinner .
To enter the trials , all patients met Rome III criteria for IBS - C and were required to meet the following clinical criteria during the 2 - week baseline run - in period : • a mean abdominal pain score of at least 3 on a 0 - to - 10 - point numeric rating scale where a score of 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates very severe pain • less than 3 complete spontaneous bowel movements ( CSBMs ) per week , where a CSBM is defined as a spontaneous bowel movement ( SBM ) that is associated with a sense of complete evacuation ( an SBM is a bowel movement occurring in the absence of laxative use ) • less than or equal to 5 SBMs per week The trial designs were identical through the first 12 weeks of treatment , and thereafter differed in that Trial 1 continued for an additional 14 weeks of treatment ( 26 weeks double - blind treatment ) , whereas Trial 2 included a 4 - week randomized withdrawal ( RW ) period .
Efficacy of IBSRELA was assessed using responder analyses based on daily diary entries .
In both trials , the primary endpoint was the proportion of responders , where a responder was defined as a patient achieving both the stool frequency and abdominal pain intensity responder criteria in the same week for at least 6 of the first 12 weeks of treatment .
The stool frequency ( CSBM ) and abdominal pain responder criteria assessed each week were defined as : • CSBM responder : a patient who experienced an increase of at least 1 CSBM in weekly average from baseline .
• Abdominal pain responder : a patient who experienced at least a 30 % reduction in the weekly average of abdominal pain score compared with baseline .
The responder rates for the primary endpoint and components of the primary endpoint ( CSBM and abdominal pain ) , which were pre - specified key secondary endpoints , are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Responder Rates in Placebo - Controlled Trials ( Trial 1 and Trial 2 ) in Adults with IBS - C : Responder for at least 6 of the First 12 Weeks of TreatmentTrial 1 IBSRELA N = 293 Placebo N = 300 Treatment Difference [ 95 % CI [ 1 ] ] Responder [ 2 ] 37 % 24 % 13 % [ 6 % , 20 % ] Components of Responder Endpoint : CSBM Responder [ 3 ] 47 % 33 % Abdominal Pain Responder [ 4 ] 50 % 38 % Trial 2 Responder Rates IBSRELA N = 307 Placebo N = 299 Treatment Difference [ 95 % CI null ] Responder null 27 % 19 % 8 % [ 2 % , 15 % ] Components of Responder Endpoint : CSBM Responder null 34 % 29 % Abdominal Pain Responder null 44 % 33 % [ 1 ] CI : Confidence Interval [ 2 ] A responder for these trials was defined as a patient who met both the abdominal pain and CSBM weekly responder criteria for at least 6 of the first 12 weeks .
[ 3 ] A CSBM responder was defined as a patient who achieved an increase in at least 1 CSBM per week , from baseline , for a least 6 of at least 12 weeks .
[ 4 ] An abdominal pain responder was defined as a patient who met the criteria of at least 30 % reduction from baseline in weekly average of the worst daily abdominal pain , for at least 6 of the first 12 weeks .
In Trials 1 and 2 , the proportion of responders for 9 out of the first 12 weeks , including at least 3 of the last 4 weeks , was greater in IBSRELA - treated patients compared to placebo - treated patients .
In addition , in Trial 1 , the proportion of responders for 13 out of 26 weeks was greater in IBSRELA - treated patients compared to placebo - treated patients .
In both trials , improvements from baseline in average weekly CSBMs and abdominal pain were observed by Week 1 , with improvement maintained through the end of treatment .
In IBSRELA - treated patients re - randomized to placebo in Trial 2 , CSBM frequency and abdominal pain severity worsened on average over the 4 - week period but remained improved compared to baseline .
Patients who continued on IBSRELA maintained their response to therapy on average over the additional 4 weeks .
Patients on placebo who were re - randomized to IBSRELA had an average increase in CSBM frequency and a decrease in abdominal pain .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING IBSRELA tablets contain 50 mg tenapanor and are oval , white to off - white , debossed with " [ MULTIMEDIA ] 50 " on one side and " 5791 " on the other side .
IBSRELA is supplied in a white , opaque , high - density polyethylene bottle containing 60 tablets with a silica gel canister ( as the desiccant ) and screw - top polypropylene child - resistant cap lined and induction - activated aluminum foil liner ( NDC 73154 - 050 - 60 ) .
Storage Store at room temperature , between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
Keep in original container and protect from moisture .
Keep the container of IBSRELA tightly closed and in a dry place .
Do not remove desiccant from the bottle .
Do not subdivide or repackage .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Diarrhea Instruct patients to stop IBSRELA and contact their healthcare provider if they experience severe diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Accidental Ingestion Accidental ingestion of IBSRELA in children , especially children less than 6 years of age , may result in severe diarrhea and dehydration .
Instruct patients to store IBSRELA securely and out of reach of children [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administration and Handling Instructions Instruct Patients : • To take IBSRELA immediately prior to breakfast or the first meal of the day and immediately before dinner [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• If a dose is missed , skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
• To keep IBSRELA in a dry place .
Protect from moisture .
Keep in the original bottle .
Do not remove desiccant from the bottle .
Do not subdivide or repackage .
Keep bottles tightly closed [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Manufactured for and distributed by Ardelyx , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 USA IBSRELA ® is a registered trademark of Ardelyx , Inc .
Patent : www . IBSRELA - patents . com This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : May 2021 Medication Guide IBSRELA ® ( ibs rel ` a ) ( tenapanor ) tablets , for oral use What is the most important information I should know about IBSRELA ?
• Do not give IBSRELA to children who are less than 6 years of age .
It may harm them .
• You should not give IBSRELA to patients 6 years to less than 18 years of age .
It may harm them .
IBSRELA can cause severe diarrhea and your child could get severe dehydration ( loss of a large amount of body water and salt ) .
See " What are the possible side effects of IBSRELA ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is IBSRELA ?
IBSRELA is a prescription medicine used in adults to treat : • Irritable bowel syndrome with constipation ( IBS - C ) .
It is not known if IBSRELA is safe and effective in children less than 18 years of age .
Who should not take IBSRELA ?
• Do not give IBSRELA to children who are less than 6 years of age .
IBSRELA can cause severe diarrhea and your child could get severe dehydration ( loss of a large amount of body water and salt ) .
• Do not take IBSRELA if a doctor has told you that you have a bowel blockage ( intestinal obstruction ) .
Before you take IBSRELA , tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if IBSRELA will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if IBSRELA passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take IBSRELA .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
How should I take IBSRELA ?
• Take IBSRELA exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Take 1 IBSRELA tablet by mouth , 2 times each day .
• Take IBSRELA immediately before breakfast or the first meal of the day and immediately before dinner .
• If a dose is missed , skip the missed dose and take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
What are the possible side effects of IBSRELA ?
IBSRELA can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about IBSRELA ? "
• Diarrhea is the most common side effect of IBSRELA , and it can sometimes be severe .
Stop taking IBSRELA and call your doctor if you develop severe diarrhea .
The other most common side effects of IBSRELA include : • swelling , or a feeling of fullness or pressure in your abdomen ( distension ) .
• gas ( flatulence ) .
• dizziness .
These are not all the possible side effects of IBSRELA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to www . fda . gov / medwatch .
How should I store IBSRELA ?
• Store IBSRELA at room temperature , between 68 ° F and 77 ° F ( 20 ° C and 25 ° C ) .
• Keep IBSRELA in the original container and protect from moisture .
Keep the container of IBSRELA tightly closed and in a dry place .
• Do not put IBSRELA in another container ( repackage ) .
• The IBSRELA bottle contains a desiccant canister to help keep your medicine dry ( protect it from moisture ) .
Do not remove the desiccant from the bottle .
Keep IBSRELA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of IBSRELA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use IBSRELA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give IBSRELA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about IBSRELA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in IBSRELA ?
Active ingredient : tenapanor hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , low - substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose , microcrystalline cellulose , propyl gallate , stearic acid , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Manufactured for and distributed by Ardelyx , Inc .
Waltham , MA 02451 USA IBSRELA ® is a registered trademark of Ardelyx , Inc .
Patent : www . IBSRELA - patents . com For more information , go to www . ardelyx . com or call 1 - 844 - 427 - 7352 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 050 - 60 NDC 73154 - 050 - 60 IBSRELA ® ( tenapanor ) tablets 50 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Attention Pharmacist : Dispense IBSRELA ® in original container to patient .
Do not remove the desiccant from inside the bottle .
60 tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Tablet Bottle Label - 050 - 06 PROFESSIONAL SAMPLE – NOT FOR SALE NDC 73154 - 050 - 06 IBSRELA ® ( tenapanor ) tablets 50 mg ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Attention Pharmacist : Dispense IBSRELA ® in original container to patient .
Do not remove the desiccant from inside the bottle .
6 tablets Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
