ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredients : Ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate 7 . 5 % , Titanium dioxide 5 % , Zinc oxide 5 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Butylene glycol , Isoamyl p - methoxycinnamate , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Betaine , Cetyl ethylhexanoate , Polysorbate 60 , Dimethicone , Sodium chloride , Sodium hyaluronate , PEG - 40 stearate , Iron oxides , Bentonite , Talc , Stearic acide , Phenoxyethanol , Methylparaben , Ethylparaben , Butylparaben , Propylparaben , Isobutylparaben , Tocopheryl acetate , Perfume , Rubus hirsutus fruit / leaf extract , Camellia Japonica Ovary Powder , Centella asiatica extract , Lavandula angustifolia ( Lavender ) extract , Glycyrrhiza glabra ( Licorice ) root extract , Triticum vulgare ( Wheat ) flour lipids , Allantoin , Lysine HCL , Disodium EDTA , Proline , Sodium ascorbyl phosphate , Linum usitatissimum ( Linseed ) seed extract , Hibiscus esculentus fruit extract , Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , Arctium lappa root extract , Hibiscus mutabilis flower extract , Corchorus olitorius leaf extract , Dimethyl sulfone PURPOSE Purpose : Sunscreen WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ’ re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
1 ) In case of having problem such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
2 ) In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
2 .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
3 .
In the case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of babies and children INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indications and usage : 1 .
Tighten the lid after using it .
2 .
Don ’ t keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight .
3 .
Use it in the evening after washing face .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage and administration : Apply after washing face .
Take a small amount of cream about 1 . 0 - 1 . 5 g on to the fingertips and gently massage over the entire face .
( cheeks , nostrils , corners , forehead , and the around of eyes , even your hands ) Blot face lightly with tissue , and may sleep without washing it .
PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
