This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % , Isopropyl Alcohol 0 . 5 % .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Uses To help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , Keep away from fire or flame When using this product keep do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if : irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Directions : put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry .
* Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using LORO .
Other information • Store below 43 C ( 110 F ) • May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces Manufacture by : Hanoi Biology Chemistry Group Corporation 252 / 57 Tay Son , Trung Liet Ward , Dong Da District , Hanoi , Vietnam Tel : 024 - 66869828 Inactive ingredients Water , Glycerin , Ginger Oil .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 474 ml NDC : 78185 - 000 - 00 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
