[ MULTIMEDIA ] Flexible Plastic Container Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION The product is sterile , nonpyrogenic solution containing isotonic concentration of electrolytes with dextrose in water for injection .
The solutions containing dextrose and electrolytes are hypertonic .
They are administered by intravenous infusion for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with minimal carbohydrate calories .
Each 100 mL of Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP contains dextrose , hydrous 5 g , sodium chloride 600 mg , sodium lactate , anhydrous 310 mg , potassium chloride 30 mg and calcium chloride , dihydrate 20 mg .
Contains only hydrochloric acid for pH adjustment .
A liter provides 179 calories ( from dextrose and lactate ) , sodium ( Na + ) , 130 mEq , potassium ( K + ) 4 mEq , calcium ( Ca + + ) 3 mEq , chloride ( Cl − ) 109 mEq and lactate [ CH3CH ( OH ) COO − ] 28 mEq and has a hypertonic osmolar concentration of 525 mOsmol ( calc . )
.
The pH is 4 . 9 ( 4 . 0 − 6 . 5 ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose injection .
When smaller doses are required the unused portion should be discarded .
This solution is a parenteral fluid , nutrient and / or electrolyte replenishers .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) , a hexose sugar freely soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcium Chloride , USP is chemically designated calcium chloride dihydrate ( CaCl2 • 2 H2O ) , white fragments or granules freely soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Lactate , USP is chemically designated monosodium lactate [ CH3CH ( OH ) COONa ] , a 50 % aqueous solution miscible in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated non - plasticized , film containing polypropylene and thermoplastic elastomers ( freeflex ® bag ) .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions inside the plastic container also can leach out certain of their chemical components in very small amounts before the expiration period is attained .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY When administered intravenously , these solutions provide sources of water and electrolytes with minimal carbohydrate calories .
Their electrolyte content resembles that of the principal ionic constituents of normal plasma and the solutions therefore are suitable for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with carbohydrate calories .
Solutions containing carbohydrate in the form of dextrose restore blood glucose levels and provide calories .
Carbohydrate in the form of dextrose may aid in minimizing liver glycogen depletion and exerts a protein - sparing action .
Dextrose injected parenterally undergoes oxidation to carbon dioxide and water .
Calcium chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
Potassium is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
It is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium - free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl - ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl - ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Sodium lactate provides ( Na + ) and lactate ( C3 H5 O3 - ) ions .
The lactate anion is in equilibrium with pyruvate and has an alkalizing effect resulting from simultaneous removal by the liver of lactate and hydrogen ions .
In the liver , lactate is metabolized to glycogen which is ultimately converted to carbon dioxide and water by oxidative metabolism .
The sodium ( Na + ) ion combines with bicarbonate ion produced from carbon dioxide of the body and thus retains bicarbonate to combat metabolic acidosis ( bicarbonate deficiency ) .
The normal plasma level of lactate ranges from 0 . 9 to 1 . 9 mEq / liter .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE These solutions are indicated for parenteral replacement of extracellular losses of fluid and electrolytes , with minimal carbohydrate calories , as required by the clinical condition of the patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Solutions containing lactate are NOT FOR USE IN THE TREATMENT OF LACTIC ACIDOSIS .
WARNINGS Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered simultaneously through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Solutions which contain potassium should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
The administration of lactate ions should be done with great care where there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of lactate ions , as in severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of these solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Solutions containing dextrose should be used with caution in patients with known subclinical or overt diabetes mellitus .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Potassium containing solutions should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in digitalized patients or in the presence of renal disease .
Solutions containing lactate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ' s Injection , USP , Ringer ' s and Dextrose Injection , USP , Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP or Lactated Ringer ' s and Dextrose Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether these injections can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
These injections should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness in the pediatric population are based on the similarity of the clinical conditions of the pediatric and adult populations .
In neonates or very small infants the volume of fluid may affect fluid and electrolyte balance .
Frequent monitoring of serum glucose concentrations is required when dextrose is prescribed to pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants .
In very low birth weight infants , excessive or rapid administration of dextrose injection may result in increased serum osmolarity and possible intracerebral hemorrhage .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the age , weight and clinical condition of the patient .
As reported in the literature , the dosage and constant infusion rate of intravenous dextrose must be selected with caution in pediatric patients , particularly neonates and low birth weight infants , because of the increased risk of hyperglycemia / hypoglycemia .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
The presence of calcium limits their compatibility with certain drugs that form precipitates of calcium salts , and also prohibits their simultaneous infusion through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP is supplied in single - dose freeflex ® plastic containers as follows : Product Code Unit of Use Unit of Sale 310241 NDC 65219 - 241 - 00 One 1000 mL freeflex ® bag NDC 65219 - 241 - 10 Package of 10 freeflex ® bags 310243 NDC 65219 - 243 - 01 One 500 mL freeflex ® bag NDC 65219 - 243 - 50 Package of 20 freeflex ® bags Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
Non - PVC , Non - DEHP , Sterile .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Check flexible container solution composition , lot number , and expiry date .
Do not remove solution container from its overwrap until immediately before use .
Use sterile equipment and aseptic technique .
Flexible Plastic Container ( freeflex ® bag ) To Open • Turn solution container over so that the text is face down .
Using the pre - cut corner tabs , peel open the overwrap and remove solution container .
• Check the solution container for leaks by squeezing firmly .
If leaks are found , or if the seal is not intact , discard the solution .
• Do not use if the solution is cloudy or a precipitate is present .
To Add Medication • Identify WHITE Additive Port with arrow pointing toward container .
• Immediately before injecting additives , break off WHITE Additive Port Cap with the arrow pointing toward container .
• Hold base of WHITE Additive Port horizontally .
• Insert needle horizontally through the center of WHITE Additive Port ' s septum and inject additives .
• Mix container contents thoroughly .
Preparation for Administration • Immediately before inserting the infusion set , break off BLUE Infusion Port Cap with the arrow pointing away from container .
• Use a non - vented infusion set or close the air - inlet on a vented set .
• Close the roller clamp of the infusion set .
• Hold the base of BLUE Infusion Port .
• Insert spike through BLUE Infusion Port by rotating wrist slightly until the spike is inserted .
NOTE : See full directions accompanying administration set .
WARNING : Do not use flexible container in series connections .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Lake Zurich , Illinois 60047 Made in Norway 451770 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us Issued : September 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 1000 mL Bag Label 1000 mL NDC 65219 - 241 - 00 freeflex ® LACTATED RINGER ' S and 5 % DEXTROSE Injection , USP Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose 1000 mL Case Label NDC 65219 - 241 - 10 310241 LACTATED RINGER ' S and 5 % DEXTROSE Injection , USP 1000 mL x 10 STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP 500 mL Bag Label 500 mL NDC 65219 - 243 - 01 freeflex ® LACTATED RINGER ' S and 5 % DEXTROSE Injection , USP Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY – Lactated Ringer ' s and 5 % Dextrose 500 mL Case Label NDC 65219 - 243 - 50 310243 LACTATED RINGER ' S and 5 % DEXTROSE Injection , USP 500 mL x 20 STORE AT : 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
