DRUG FACTS For Pain Relieving Cream Active Ingredient Purpose Lidocaine 4 % Topical Analgesic purpose topical analgesic Uses for the temporary relief of pain associated with minor skin irritations due to groin area hair removal .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes Do not use with other creams or medications in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas if you have had a severe allergic reaction ( e . g . severe rash , hives , difficulty breathing , dizziness ) to any anesthetic medicine if there are signs of infection or tissue damage in the affected area .
Ask a doctor before use if you have heart or neurological conditions .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you develop a persistent rash side effects occur condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact poison control center right away .
Directions For adult use only .
Apply a small amount of cream to the groin area between 15 and 30 minutes prior to groin area hair removal .
Do not rub in .
A thin layer of cream should be visible on the skin .
Other information Cream is packaged with an imprinted wrap around neck of tube do not use if carton is damaged or open , or if imprinted wrap around neck of tube is damaged or missing .
See crimp of tube for lot number and expiration date Store at room temperature ( 68 to 77 degrees F , 20 to 25 degrees C ) Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetyl Alcohol , Hexylene Glycol , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Simmondsia Chinesis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Sodium Polyacrylate , Stearic Acid , Water Numb Nuts The Manscaper ' s Pain Relieving Cream Pakage contents : 1 Tube [ 0 . 5 oz ( 14 . 2 g ) ] of pain relieving cream for more information visit www . numbnuts . com NUMB NUTS The Manscapers Pain Relieving Cream Doctor Formulated Pain Relieving Cream with Aloe NUMB NUTS Pin Relieving Cream with Aloe The Manscaper ' s Pain Relieving Cream Net Wt 0 . 5 oz ( 14 . 2 g ) Created and manufactured for Miss Smarty Pants Enterprises , Inc .
PO Box 10446 , Beverly Hills , CA 90213 Packaging and Pain Relieving Cream - Made in the USA Numb Nuts Pain Relieving Cream with aloe The manscapers pain relieving cream Net Wt 0 . 5 oz ( 14 . 2 g ) 4 % Lidocaine Do Not Use if imprinted wrap around neck of tube is damaged or missing .
Created and manufactured for Miss Smarty Pants Enterprises , Inc .
PO Box 10446 Beverly Hills , CA 90213 Pain Relieving Cream - Made in USA This unit is packaged in an outer container .
Please see outer container for drug facts information .
See crimp of tube for lot number and expiration date .
Store at room temperature ( 8 to 77 degrees F , 20 to 25 degrees C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
