[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Active ingredients Piperonyl butoxide ( 4 % ) Pyrethrum extract ( equivalent to 0 . 33 % pyrethrins ) Purpose Lice treatment Uses treats head , pubic ( crab ) , and body lice Warnings For external use only Do not use • near the eyes • inside nose , mouth , or vagina • on lice in eyebrows or eyelashes .
See a doctor if lice are present in these areas .
• If you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you are allergic to ragweed .
May cause breathing difficulty or an asthmatic attack .
When using this product • keep eyes tightly closed and protect eyes with a washcloth or towel • if product gets into eyes , flush with water right away • scalp itching or redness may occur Stop use and ask a doctor if • breathing difficulty occurs • eye irritation occurs • skin or scalp irritation continues or infection occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ● ● Important : Read warnings before use Adults and children 2 years and over : Inspect • check each household member with a magnifying glass in bright light for lice / nits ( eggs ) • look for tiny nits near scalp , beginning at back of neck and behind ears • examine small sections of hair at a time • unlike dandruff which moves when touched , nits stick to the hair • if either lice or nits are found , treat with this product Treat • apply thoroughly to DRY HAIR or other affected area .
For head lice , first apply behind ears and to back of neck .
• allow product to remain for 10 minutes , but no longer • use warm water to form a lather , shampoo , then thoroughly rinse • for head lice , towel dry hair and comb out tangles Remove lice and their eggs ( nits ) • use the RID ® Lice Comb .
Remove any remaining nits by hand ( using a throw - away glove ) .
• hair should remain slightly damp while removing nits • if hair dries during combing , dampen slightly with water • for head lice , part hair into sections .
Do one section at a time starting on top of head .
Longer hair may take 1 to 2 hours .
• lift a 1 - to 2 - inch wide strand of hair .
Place comb as close to scalp as possible and comb with a firm , even motion away from scalp .
• pin back each strand of hair after combing • clean comb often .
Wipe nits away with tissue and discard in a plastic bag .
Seal bag and discard to prevent lice from coming back .
• after combing , thoroughly recheck for lice / nits .
Repeat combing if necessary .
• check daily for any lice / nits that you missed • a second treatment must be done in 7 to 10 days to kill any newly hatched lice • if infestation continues , see a doctor for other treatments Children under 2 years : ask a doctor Other information • keep carton for important product information • see Consumer Information Insert for additional information • avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredients ammonium laureth sulfate , dehydrated alcohol , fragrance , isopropyl alcohol , PEG - 25 hydrogenated castor oil , polyquaternium - 10 , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - RID - LICE ( 1 - 800 - 743 - 5423 ) Principal Display Panel RID ® LICE TREATMENT COMPLETE KIT LICE TREATMENT Easy - to - Follow 3 - Step Process — Instructions Inside ① TREAT ② REMOVE ③ CONTROL RID SUPPORT CALL AN EXPERT 1 - 800 - RID - LICE HOW - TO VIDEOS TRATAMIENTO DE PIOJOS — KIT COMPLETO Se incluyen instrucciones en español KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN CAUTION See Back Panel for Additional Precautions SHAMPOO NET WT .
4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) COMB - OUT SPRAY NET WT .
2 FL OZ ( 59 mL ) RID ® HOME LICE , BEDBUG & DUST MITE SPRAY NET WT .
3 OZ ( 85 . 1 g ) 1 PATENTED RID ® LICE COMB RID ® provides everything you need to treat lice in your family and in your home .
Step 1 TREAT • Apply RID ® Lice Killing Shampoo according to label directions .
• Repeat this step 7 to 10 days later to kill any newly hatched lice .
Step 2 REMOVE • After Step 1 , apply a small amount of RID ® Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray and use a wide - tooth comb to remove any tangles .
• Comb out the eggs and nits in the hair with RID ® Lice comb ( included ) , using additional spray to remove tangles if needed .
Step 3 CONTROL • Use RID ® Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray to kill lice and their eggs on mattresses , furniture , car interiors , and other non - washable items .
IMPORTANT : Read detailed directions inside before using .
This kit contains 4 products ( Lice Killing Shampoo , Lice & Egg Comb - Out Spray , Lice Comb and RID ® Home Lice , Bedbug & Dust Mite Spray to treat lice in your family and home .
The 4 oz .
bottle of shampoo and 2 oz bottle of comb - out spray should be enough product to treat one person one time .
However , the amount of shampoo needed will vary by hair length and you may need additional shampoo for the second treatment 7 to 10 days later .
See below for guidelines .
Lice Killing Shampoo Hair Length Approximate Amount For 1 Adult / Child : Short ( ear length or shorter ) First Application : 1 oz - 2 oz Second Application : 1 oz - 2 oz Total : 2 oz - 4 oz Medium ( shoulder length ) First Application : 2 oz - 3 oz Second Application : 2 oz - 3 oz Total : 4 oz - 6 oz Long ( past shoulder length ) First Application : 3 oz - 4 oz Second Application : 3 oz - 4 oz Total : 6 oz - 8 oz [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
