DESCRIPTION Meclizine HCl , an oral antiemetic , is a white , slightly yellowish , crystalline powder which has a slight odor and is tasteless .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name is 1 - ( p - chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 12 . 5 mg or 25 mg of Meclizine HCl .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , D & C yellow # 10 lake ( 25 mg only ) , FD & C blue # 1 lake ( 12 . 5 mg only ) , lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone ( 12 . 5 mg only ) , sodium starch glycolate , and stearic acid .
ACTIONS Meclizine HCl is an antihistamine which shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
It has a slower onset and longer duration of action ( 24 hours ) than most other antihistamines used for motion sickness .
Antihistamines have been observed to have both stimulant and depressant effects on the CNS , but no clear explanation exists in regard to their diverse central actions .
The site and mode of their central action is unknown .
INDICATIONS : Prophylactic treatment and management of nausea and vomiting , and dizziness associated with motion sickness .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine HCl is contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Some drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with the use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma , glaucoma , or enlargement of the prostate gland .
USAGE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in pediatric patients under 12 years of age .
USAGE IN PREGNANCY Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 - 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that meclizine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , meclizine , or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Drowsiness , dry mouth , and on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Motion Sickness : The initial dose of 25 to 50 mg of meclizine , should be taken prior to travel for protection against motion sickness .
Thereafter , the dose may be repeated every 24 hours for the duration of the journey .
HOW SUPPLIED Meclizine HCl Tablets USP are supplied as follows : 12 . 5 mg : Blue / white , oval , bi - layer tablet debossed WATSON and 802 on one side and a partial bisect on the other side , in bottles of 100 .
25 mg : Yellow / white , oval , bi - layer tablet debossed WATSON and 803 on one side and a partial bisect on the other side , in bottles of 100 and 1000 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a well - closed container as defined in USP / NF .
Manufactured For : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured by : Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cincinnati , OH 45215 USA Rev . 10 / 03 70010599 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
