Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses • for the treatment of acne • clears up acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads , whiteheads and allows skin to heal • helps prevent the development of new acne pimples blackheads and whiteheads Warnings For external use only When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth .
• skin irritation may occur such as redness , burning , itching and peeling .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily .
• because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Inactive ingredients Cetearyl Alcohol , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexyl Cocoate , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Jojoba ( Simmondsia Chinensis ) Seed Oil , Olive ( Olea Europaea ) Fruit Oil , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , PPG - 3 Benzyl Ether Myristate , Sodium Polyacrylate , Water ( Aqua ) Other information Store below 25 ° C Questions ?
+ 1 - 917 - 676 - 2003 Available during working hours : ( 9 am - 5 pm ) Monday to Friday Manufactured by : ACTIV OZONE ( Pty ) Ltd .
77 , 10 th Road , Kew , Johannesburg , South Africa , 2090 .
Tel : + 27 - 11 - 887 - 1752 www . activo2 . com Made in South Africa Distributed / Imported / Marketed by : Miller Methods Imports 3921 Alton Road , Miami Beach FL , 33140 You may report serious side effects to the above address INSPIRED BY NATURE PERFECTED BY SCIENCE ADVANCED SCIENTIFIC FORMULATION WITH ACTIVE OZONE TECHNOLOGY Performs skin clearing action Based on organic ozonised plant oils .
Apply one to three times daily .
First wash face with ACTIV O2 Acne Treatment Cleansing Bar then apply the lotion thinly onto the affected areas .
Gently massage in small circles .
Avoid the eye area .
Provides effective relief from acne and blemishes and helps prevent the development of new acne blemishes , acne pimples , blackheads and whiteheads .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
