Active Ingredient ( s ) Sodium hypochlorite 4 % ~ 6 % ( w / v ) Purpose Antimicrobial Use Suitable for disinfection of general object surfaces , fruits , vegetables , fabrics , blood , mucus and excreta .
Warnings This product is a topical disinfectant and cannot be mixed with other disinfection products .
It ’ s recommended to wear gloves and avoid contact with the skin during use .
If the original solution comes in contact with the skin , rinse it with water ; if it gets in eyes , immediately rinse it with water .
Don ’ t dilute with hot water above 40 ℃ .
Corrosive to metals and bleaching to fabrics .
It ’ s normal to have a few floating objects and sediments , and you can continue to use them .
Store in a closed , dark , cool and dry place .
Use it as soon as possible after opening .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel PRODUCT NAME Qiqing ® Sodium Hypochlorite disinfectant MAIN ACTIVE INGREDIENT AND CONTENT The main active ingredient is sodium hypochlorite , the effective chlorine content is 4 % ~ 6 % ( w / v ) .
DOSAGE FORM Liquid PACKING SPECIFICATIONS 5 L , 10 L MICROBICIDE RANGE Kills intestinal pathogens , pyogenic cocci , common bacteria and bacterial spores from hospital infections .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
