This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to 21 CFR part 210 , 211 , 333 , and 330 * .
* In Health Care Antiseptic Final Rule : Finalizes rulemaking for healthcare antiseptics , a final monograph determination was not made for three active ingredients : Isopropyl alcohol 70 - 91 . 3 percent , Benzalkonium chloride , and Alcohol ( ethyl alcohol ) 60 to 95 percent .
These active ingredients were classified as Category III .
Therefore , according to 21 USC 355 h , this hand sanitizer is not required to be the subject of an application approved under section 355 of Title 21 because this hand sanitizer is : ( i ) classified in category III for safety or effectiveness in the preamble of a proposed rule establishing a tentative final monograph that is the most recently applicable proposal or determination for such drug issued under part 330 of title 21 , Code of Federal Regulations ; ( ii ) in conformity with - ( I ) the conditions of use , including indication and dosage strength , if any , described for the Health care personnel hand rub with the active ingredient Alcohol 60 to 95 percent in such preamble or in an applicable subsequent proposed rule ; ( II ) the proposed requirements for drugs classified in such tentative final monograph in category I in the most recently proposed rule establishing requirements related to such tentative final monograph and in any final rule establishing requirements that are applicable to the drug ; and ( III ) the general requirements for nonprescription drugs and conditions or requirements under subsection ( b ) or ( k ) of 21 USC 355 h ; and ( iii ) in a dosage form that , immediately prior to March 27 , 2020 , had been used to a material extent and for a material time under section 321 ( p ) ( 2 ) of Title 21 .
The hand sanitizer is formulated using only the following ingredients : Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 71 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured with Isopropanol according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
Aloe Vera Leaf .
AMMONIUM ACRYLOYLDIMETHYLTAURATE , DIMETHYLACRYLAMIDE , LAURYL METHACRYLATE AND LAURETH - 4 METHACRYLATE COPOLYMER , TRIMETHYLOLPROPANE TRIACRYLATE CROSSLINKED ( 45000 MPA . S ) Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
Active Ingredient Alcohol 71 % v / v Purpose ANTISEPTIC Uses Hand Sanitizer that reduces bacteria on the skin including bacteria that may cause disease .
Intended for repeated use .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
When using this product do not use near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly cover your hands Rub hands together briskly until dry Children under 6 years of age should be supervised while using this product Other information Do not store above 110 ° F ( 43 ° C ) May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Water , Aloe Vera , Isopropyl Alcohol , Sepimax Zen Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 844 - 333 - 2133 Monday - Friday 9 : 00 am - 5 : 00 pm Package Label - Principal Display Panel These labels are representative of all listed dosage forms : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
