Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 7 % , Homosalate 9 . 0 % , Octisalate 4 . 5 % , Octocrylene 7 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Do not use in the presense of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal May stain some fabrics Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep away from face to avoid breathing it • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Shake Well • Hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • Do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• Do not apply in windy conditions • Use in well - ventilated area • Reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat , , Isobutane , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Isododecane , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Dimethicone , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - SafeSun , Mon - Fri Primary Display Panel BANANA BOAT ( r ) NEW LOOK !
DRY Balance CLEAR SUNSCREEN SPRAY UVA / UVB BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + 50 + Skin Feels Fresh & Dry SOFT MATTE FINISH High Endurance vs . Water Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) NET WT 6 OZ .
( 170 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
