1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Mesna Injection is indicated as a prophylactic agent in reducing the incidence of ifosfamide - induced hemorrhagic cystitis .
Mesna Injection is a cytoprotective agent indicated as a prophylactic agent in reducing the incidence of ifosfamide - induced hemorrhagic cystitis .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Mesna Injection is not indicated to reduce the risk of hematuria due to other pathological conditions such as thrombocytopenia .
( 1 ) Limitation of Use : Mesna Injection is not indicated to reduce the risk of hematuria due to other pathological conditions such as thrombocytopenia .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Mesna injection may be given on a fractionated dosing schedule of three bolus intravenous injections or a single bolus injection followed by two oral administrations of mesna tablets as outlined below .
The dosing schedule should be repeated on each day that ifosfamide is administered .
When the dosage of ifosfamide is adjusted , the ratio of mesna to ifosfamide should be maintained .
( 2 ) Intravenous Dosing Schedule : 0 Hours 4 Hours 8 Hours Ifosfamide 1 . 2 g / m2 - - Mesna injection 240 mg / m2 240 mg / m2 240 mg / m2 Intravenous and Oral Dosing Schedule : 0 Hours 2 Hours 6 Hours Ifosfamide 1 . 2 g / m2 - - Mesna injection 240 mg / m2 - - Mesna tablets - 480 mg / m2 480 mg / m2 Maintain sufficient urinary output , as required for ifosfamide treatment , and monitor urine for the presence of hematuria .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Intravenous Dosing Mesna injection may be given on a fractionated dosing schedule of three bolus intravenous injections as outlined below .
Mesna injection is given as intravenous bolus injections in a dosage equal to 20 % of the ifosfamide dosage weight by weight ( w / w ) at the time of ifosfamide administration and 4 and 8 hours after each dose of ifosfamide .
The total daily dose of mesna injection is 60 % of the ifosfamide dose .
The recommended dosing schedule is outlined below in Table 1 .
Table 1 .
Recommended Intravenous Dosing Schedule 1 The dosing schedule should be repeated on each day that ifosfamide is administered .
When the dosage of ifosfamide is increased or decreased , the ratio of mesna to ifosfamide should be maintained .
0 Hours 4 Hours 8 Hours Ifosfamide 1 . 2 g / m2 - - Mesna injection1 240 mg / m2 240 mg / m2 240 mg / m2 2 . 2 Intravenous and Oral Dosing Mesna injection may be given on a fractionated dosing schedule of a single bolus injection followed by two oral administrations of mesna tablets as outlined below .
Mesna injection is given as intravenous bolus injections in a dosage equal to 20 % of the ifosfamide dosage ( w / w ) at the time of ifosfamide administration .
Mesna tablets are given orally in a dosage equal to 40 % of the ifosfamide dose 2 and 6 hours after each dose of ifosfamide .
The total daily dose of mesna is 100 % of the ifosfamide dose .
The recommended dosing schedule is outlined in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Recommended Intravenous and Oral Dosing Schedule 1 The dosing schedule should be repeated on each day that ifosfamide is administered .
When the dosage of ifosfamide is increased or decreased , the ratio of mesna to ifosfamide should be maintained .
0 Hours 2 Hours 6 Hours Ifosfamide 1 . 2 g / m2 - - Mesna injection1 240 mg / m2 - - Mesna tablets - 480 mg / m2 480 mg / m2 The efficacy and safety of this ratio of intravenous and oral mesna has not been established as being effective for daily doses of ifosfamide higher than 2 g / m2 .
Patients who vomit within two hours of taking oral mesna should repeat the dose or receive intravenous mesna injection .
2 . 3 Monitoring for Hematuria Maintain adequate hydration and sufficient urinary output , as required for ifosfamide treatment , and monitor urine for the presence of hematuria .
If severe hematuria develops when mesna injection is given according to the recommended dosage schedule , dosage reductions or discontinuation of ifosfamide therapy may be required .
2 . 4 Preparation for Intravenous Administration and Stability Preparation Determine the volume of mesna injection for the intended dose .
Dilute the volume of mesna injection for the dose in any of the following fluids to obtain a final concentration of 20 mg per mL : • 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 33 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP Stability The mesna injection multidose vials may be stored and used for up to 8 days after initial puncture .
Store diluted solutions at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Use diluted solutions within 24 hours .
Do not mix mesna injection with epirubicin , cyclophosphamide , cisplatin , carboplatin , and nitrogen mustard .
The benzyl alcohol contained in mesna injection vials can reduce the stability of ifosfamide .
Ifosfamide and mesna injection may be mixed in the same bag provided the final concentration of ifosfamide does not exceed 50 mg per mL .
Higher concentrations of ifosfamide may not be compatible with mesna injection and may reduce the stability of ifosfamide .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
Any solutions which are discolored , hazy , or contain visible particulate matter should not be used .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • Mesna Injection : 1 gram Multi - Dose Vial , 100 mg per mL • Mesna Injection : 1 gram ( 100 mg per mL ) Multi - Dose vials ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Mesna is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to mesna or to any of the excipients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to mesna or to any of the excipients in mesna , including benzyl alcohol .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Anaphylactic reactions have been reported .
Less severe hypersensitivity reactions may also occur .
Monitor patients .
If a reaction occurs , discontinue mesna and provide supportive care .
( 5 . 1 ) • Dermatologic toxicity : Skin rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis have occurred .
Skin rash , urticaria , and angioedema have also been seen .
Monitor patients .
If a reaction occurs , discontinue mesna and provide supportive care .
( 5 . 2 ) • Benzyl alcohol toxicity : Serious and fatal adverse reactions can occur in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants treated with benzyl alcohol - preserved drugs , including mesna injection .
Avoid use in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants .
( 5 . 3 ) • Laboratory test alterations : False positive tests for urinary ketones and interference with enzymatic CPK activity tests have been seen .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Mesna may cause systemic hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis .
These reactions may include fever , cardiovascular symptoms ( hypotension , tachycardia ) , acute renal impairment , hypoxia , respiratory distress , urticaria , angioedema , laboratory signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation , hematological abnormalities , increased liver enzymes , nausea , vomiting , arthralgia , and myalgia .
These reactions may occur with the first exposure or after several months of exposure .
Monitor for signs or symptoms .
Discontinue mesna and provide supportive care .
5 . 2 Dermatologic Toxicity Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms and bullous and ulcerative skin and mucosal reactions , consistent with Stevens - Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis have occurred .
Mesna may cause skin and mucosal reactions characterized by urticaria , rash , erythema , pruritus , burning sensation , angioedema , periorbital edema , flushing and stomatitis .
These reactions may occur with the first exposure or after several months of exposure .
Discontinue mesna and provide supportive care .
5 . 3 Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity Serious adverse reactions including fatal reactions and the “ gasping syndrome ” occurred in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants who received benzyl alcohol dosages of 99 to 234 mg / kg / day ( blood levels of benzyl alcohol were 0 . 61 to 1 . 378 mmol / L ) .
Symptoms associated with “ gasping syndrome ” and other potential adverse reactions include gradual neurological deterioration , seizures , intracranial hemorrhage , hematological abnormalities , skin breakdown , hepatic and renal failure , hypotension , bradycardia , and cardiovascular collapse .
Premature neonates and low - birth weight infants may be more likely to develop these reactions because they may be less able to metabolize benzyl alcohol .
The minimum amount of benzyl alcohol at which toxicity may occur is not known .
Mesna injection contains 10 . 4 mg / mL of the preservative benzyl alcohol .
Avoid use of mesna injection in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants .
Mesna tablets do not contain benzyl alcohol [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Laboratory Test Interferences False - Positive Urine Tests for Ketone Bodies A false positive test for urinary ketones may arise in patients treated with mesna when using nitroprusside sodium - based urine tests ( including dipstick tests ) .
The addition of glacial acetic acid can be used to differentiate between a false positive result ( cherry - red color that fades ) and a true positive result ( red - violet color that intensifies ) .
False - Negative Tests for Enzymatic CPK Activity Mesna may interfere with enzymatic creatinine phosphokinase ( CPK ) activity tests that use a thiol compound ( e . g . , N - acetylcysteine ) for CPK reactivation .
This may result in a falsely low CPK level .
False - Positive Tests for Ascorbic Acid Mesna may cause false - positive reactions in Tillman ' s reagent - based urine screening tests for ascorbic acid .
5 . 5 Use in Patients with a History of Adverse Reactions to Thiol Compounds Mesna is a thiol compound , i . e . , a sulfhydryl ( SH ) group - containing organic compound .
Hypersensitivity reactions to mesna and to amifostine , another thiol compound , have been reported .
It is not clear whether patients who experienced an adverse reaction to a thiol compound are at increased risk for a hypersensitivity reaction to mesna .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Dermatological Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Laboratory Test Interferences [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Use in Patients with a History of Adverse Reactions to Thiol Compounds [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 10 % ) when mesna is given with ifosfamide are nausea , vomiting , constipation , leukopenia , fatigue , fever , anorexia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , granulocytopenia , diarrhea , asthenia , abdominal pain , headache , alopecia , and somnolence .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 625 - 1618 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Mesna adverse reaction data are available from four Phase 1 studies in which single intravenous doses of 600 to 1200 mg mesna injection without concurrent chemotherapy were administered to a total of 53 healthy volunteers .
The most frequently reported side effects ( observed in two or more healthy volunteers ) for healthy volunteers receiving single doses of mesna injection alone were headache , injection site reactions , flushing , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , somnolence , diarrhea , anorexia , fever , pharyngitis , hyperesthesia , influenza - like symptoms , and coughing .
In two Phase 1 multiple - dose studies where healthy volunteers received mesna tablets alone or intravenous mesna followed by repeated doses of mesna tablets , flatulence and rhinitis were reported .
In addition , constipation was reported by healthy volunteers who had received repeated doses of intravenous mesna .
Additional adverse reactions in healthy volunteers receiving mesna alone included injection site reactions , abdominal pain / colic , epigastric pain / burning , mucosal irritation , lightheadedness , back pain , arthralgia , myalgia , conjunctivitis , nasal congestion , rigors , paresthesia , photophobia , fatigue , lymphadenopathy , extremity pain , malaise , chest pain , dysuria , pleuritic pain , dry mouth , dyspnea , and hyperhidrosis .
In healthy volunteers , mesna was commonly associated with a rapid ( within 24 hours ) decrease in lymphocyte count , which was generally reversible within one week of administration .
Because mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide or ifosfamide - containing chemotherapy regimens , it is difficult to distinguish the adverse reactions which may be due to mesna from those caused by the concomitantly administered cytotoxic agents .
Adverse reactions reasonably associated with mesna administered intravenously and orally in four controlled studies in which patients received ifosfamide or ifosfamide - containing regimens are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions in ≥ 5 % of Patients Receiving Mesna in combination with Ifosfamide - containing Regimens 1 Intravenous dosing of ifosfamide and mesna followed by either intravenous or oral doses of mesna according to the applicable dosage schedule [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Mesna Regimen Intravenous - Intravenous - Intravenous1 Intravenous - Oral - Oral1 N exposed 119 ( 100 . 0 % ) 119 ( 100 % ) Incidence of AEs 101 ( 84 . 9 % ) 106 ( 89 . 1 % ) Nausea 65 ( 54 . 6 ) 64 ( 53 . 8 ) Vomiting 35 ( 29 . 4 ) 45 ( 37 . 8 ) Constipation 28 ( 23 . 5 ) 21 ( 17 . 6 ) Leukopenia 25 ( 21 . 0 ) 21 ( 17 . 6 ) Fatigue 24 ( 20 . 2 ) 24 ( 20 . 2 ) Fever 24 ( 20 . 2 ) 18 ( 15 . 1 ) Anorexia 21 ( 17 . 6 ) 19 ( 16 . 0 ) Thrombocytopenia 21 ( 17 . 6 ) 16 ( 13 . 4 ) Anemia 20 ( 16 . 8 ) 21 ( 17 . 6 ) Granulocytopenia 16 ( 13 . 4 ) 15 ( 12 . 6 ) Asthenia 15 ( 12 . 6 ) 21 ( 17 . 6 ) Abdominal Pain 14 ( 11 . 8 ) 18 ( 15 . 1 ) Alopecia 12 ( 10 . 1 ) 13 ( 10 . 9 ) Dyspnea 11 ( 9 . 2 ) 11 ( 9 . 2 ) Chest Pain 10 ( 8 . 4 ) 11 ( 9 . 2 ) Hypokalemia 10 ( 8 . 4 ) 11 ( 9 . 2 ) Diarrhea 9 ( 7 . 6 ) 17 ( 14 . 3 ) Dizziness 9 ( 7 . 6 ) 5 ( 4 . 2 ) Headache 9 ( 7 . 6 ) 13 ( 10 . 9 ) Pain 9 ( 7 . 6 ) 10 ( 8 . 4 ) Sweating Increased 9 ( 7 . 6 ) 2 ( 1 . 7 ) Back Pain 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) Hematuria 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 7 ( 5 . 9 ) Injection Site Reaction 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 10 ( 8 . 4 ) Edema 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 9 ( 7 . 6 ) Edema Peripheral 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 8 ( 6 . 7 ) Somnolence 8 ( 6 . 7 ) 12 ( 10 . 1 ) Anxiety 7 ( 5 . 9 ) 4 ( 3 . 4 ) Confusion 7 ( 5 . 9 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) Face Edema 6 ( 5 . 0 ) 5 ( 4 . 2 ) Insomnia 6 ( 5 . 0 ) 11 ( 9 . 2 ) Coughing 5 ( 4 . 2 ) 10 ( 8 . 4 ) Dyspepsia 4 ( 3 . 4 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) Hypotension 4 ( 3 . 4 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) Pallor 4 ( 3 . 4 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) Dehydration 3 ( 2 . 5 ) 7 ( 5 . 9 ) Pneumonia 2 ( 1 . 7 ) 8 ( 6 . 7 ) Tachycardia 1 ( 0 . 8 ) 7 ( 5 . 9 ) Flushing 1 ( 0 . 8 ) 6 ( 5 . 0 ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in the postmarketing experience of patients receiving mesna in combination with ifosfamide or similar drugs , making it difficult to distinguish the adverse reactions which may be due to mesna from those caused by the concomitantly administered cytotoxic agents .
Because these reactions are reported from a population of unknown size , precise estimates of frequency cannot be made .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension Gastrointestinal : Dysgeusia Hepatobiliary : Hepatitis Nervous System : Convulsion Respiratory : Hemoptysis 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No clinical drug interaction studies have been conducted with mesna .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Mesna in combination with ifosfamide can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of potential risk to a fetus .
( 8 . 1 ) • Lactation : Do not breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise patients to use effective contraception .
Verify pregnancy status prior to initiation of mesna in combination with ifosfamide .
( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : In premature neonates and low - birth weight infants , avoid use of benzyl alcohol – containing solutions .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric use : Dose selection should be cautious .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide or other cytotoxic agents .
Ifosfamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Refer to the ifosfamide prescribing information for more information on use during pregnancy .
Mesna injection contains the preservative benzyl alcohol .
Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by a pregnant woman , benzyl alcohol exposure in the fetus is unlikely [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide or other cytotoxic agents .
Ifosfamide can cause fetal harm including embryo - fetal lethality .
Refer to the ifosfamide prescribing information for more information on use during pregnancy .
In embryo - fetal development studies , oral administration of mesna to pregnant rats ( 500 , 1000 , 1500 , and 2000 mg / kg ) and rabbits ( 500 and 1000 mg / kg ) during the period of organogenesis revealed no adverse developmental outcomes at doses approximately 10 times the maximum recommended total daily human equivalent dose based on body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide or other cytotoxic agents .
Ifosfamide is excreted in breast milk .
Refer to the ifosfamide prescribing information for more information on use during lactation .
There are no data on the presence of mesna in human or animal milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or the effect on milk production .
Mesna injection contains the preservative benzyl alcohol .
Because benzyl alcohol is rapidly metabolized by a lactating woman , benzyl alcohol exposure in the breastfed infant is unlikely .
However , adverse reactions have occurred in premature neonates and low birth weight infants who received intravenously administered benzyl alcohol - containing drugs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child , advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment and for 1 week after the last dose of mesna or ifosfamide .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide or other cytotoxic agents .
Ifosfamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Refer to the ifosfamide prescribing information for more information on contraception and effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiation of mesna in combination with ifosfamide .
Contraception Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with mesna in combination with ifosfamide and for 6 months after the last dose .
Males Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with mesna in combination with ifosfamide and for 3 months after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Mesna injection contains the preservative benzyl alcohol which has been associated with serious adverse reactions and death when administered intravenously to premature neonates and low - birth weight infants .
Avoid use of mesna injection in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of mesna did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The ratio of ifosfamide to mesna should remain unchanged .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment No clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of mesna .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment No clinical studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of mesna .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote for mesna .
In a clinical trial , 11 patients received intravenous mesna 10 mg / kg to 66 mg / kg per day for 3 to 5 days .
Patients also received ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide .
Adverse reactions included nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and fever .
An increased rate of these adverse reactions has also been found in oxazaphosphorine - treated patients receiving ≥ 80 mg mesna per kg per day intravenously compared with patients receiving lower doses or hydration treatment only .
Postmarketing , administration of 4 . 5 g to 6 . 9 g of mesna resulted in hypersensitivity reactions including mild hypotension , shortness of breath , asthma exacerbation , rash , and flushing .
11 DESCRIPTION Mesna is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , aqueous detoxifying agent to inhibit the hemorrhagic cystitis induced by ifosfamide .
The active ingredient , mesna , is a synthetic sulfhydryl compound designated as sodium - 2 - mercaptoethane sulfonate with a molecular formula of C2H5NaO3S2 and a molecular weight of 164 . 18 .
Its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mesna Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , aqueous solution of colorless to light pink appearance in clear glass multidose vials for intravenous administration .
Mesna Injection contains 100 mg per mL mesna , 0 . 25 mg per mL edetate disodium , sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment and qs with Water for Injection .
Mesna Injection multidose vials also contain 10 . 4 mg per mL of benzyl alcohol as a preservative .
The solution has a pH range of 6 . 5 to 7 . 4 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Mesna reacts chemically with the urotoxic ifosfamide metabolites , acrolein and 4 - hydroxy - ifosfamide , resulting in their detoxification .
The first step in the detoxification process is the binding of mesna to 4 - hydroxy - ifosfamide forming a non - urotoxic 4 - sulfoethylthioifosfamide .
Mesna also binds to the double bonds of acrolein and to other urotoxic metabolites and inhibits their effects on the bladder .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration , peak plasma concentrations were reached within 1 . 5 to 4 hours and 3 to 7 hours for free mesna and total mesna ( mesna plus dimesna and mixed disulfides ) , respectively .
Oral bioavailability averaged 58 % ( range 45 to 71 % ) for free mesna and 89 % ( range 74 to 104 % ) for total mesna based on plasma AUC data from 8 healthy volunteers who received 1200 mg oral or intravenous doses .
Food does not affect the urinary availability of orally administered mesna .
Distribution Mean apparent volume of distribution ( Vd ) for mesna is 0 . 652 ± 0 . 242 L / kg after intravenous administration which suggests distribution to total body water ( plasma , extracellular fluid , and intracellular water ) .
Metabolism Analogous to the physiological cysteine - cystine system , mesna is rapidly oxidized to its major metabolite , mesna disulfide ( dimesna ) .
Plasma concentrations of mesna exceed those of dimesna after oral or intravenous administration .
Excretion Following intravenous administration of a single 800 mg dose , approximately 32 % and 33 % of the administered dose was eliminated in the urine in 24 hours as mesna and dimesna , respectively .
Mean plasma elimination half - lives of mesna and dimesna are 0 . 36 hours and 1 . 17 hours , respectively .
Mesna has a plasma clearance of 1 . 23 L / h / kg .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of mesna .
Mesna was not genotoxic in the in vitro Ames bacterial mutagenicity assay , the in vitro mammalian lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay or the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
No studies on male or female fertility were conducted .
No signs of male or female reproductive organ toxicity were seen in 6 - month oral rat studies ( ≤ 2000 mg / kg / day ) or 29 - week oral dog studies ( 520 mg / kg / day ) at doses approximately 10 - fold higher than the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Intravenous Mesna Hemorrhagic cystitis produced by ifosfamide is dose dependent ( Table 4 ) .
At a dose of 1 . 2 g / m2 ifosfamide administered daily for 5 days , 16 to 26 % of the patients who received conventional uroprophylaxis ( high fluid intake , alkalinization of the urine , and the administration of diuretics ) developed hematuria ( > 50 RBC per hpf or macrohematuria ) ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
In contrast , none of the patients who received mesna injection together with this dose of ifosfamide developed hematuria ( Studies 3 and 4 ) .
In two randomized studies , ( Studies 5 and 6 ) , higher doses of ifosfamide , from 2 g / m2 to 4 g / m2 administered for 3 to 5 days , produced hematuria in 31 to 100 % of the patients .
When mesna was administered together with these doses of ifosfamide , the incidence of hematuria was less than 7 % .
Table 4 .
Percent of Mesna Patients Developing Hematuria ( ≥ 50 RBC / hpf or macrohematuria ) * Ifosfamide dose 1 . 2 g / m2 d x 5 † Ifosfamide dose 2 g / m2 to 4 g / m2 d x 3 to 5 Study Conventional Uroprophylaxis ( number of patients ) Standard Mesna Intravenous Regimen ( number of patients ) Uncontrolled Studies * Study 1 16 % ( 7 / 44 ) - Study 2 26 % ( 11 / 43 ) - Study 3 18 % ( 7 / 38 ) 0 % ( 0 / 21 ) Study 4 - 0 % ( 0 / 32 ) Controlled Studies † Study 5 31 % ( 14 / 46 ) 6 % ( 3 / 46 ) Study 6 100 % ( 7 / 7 ) 0 % ( 0 / 8 ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Mesna Injection is supplied as follows : NDC Mesna Injection ( 100 mg per mL ) Package Factor 25021 - 201 - 10 1 gram per 10 mL Multi - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton 25021 - 201 - 11 1 gram per 10 mL Multi - Dose Vial 10 vials per carton Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
If Mesna Injection is co - administered with ifosfamide , refer to the ifosfamide prescribing information for safe handling instructions .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity • Advise the patient to discontinue mesna and seek immediate medical attention if any signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction , including systemic anaphylactic reactions occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hemorrhagic Cystitis • Mesna does not prevent hemorrhagic cystitis in all patients nor does it prevent or alleviate any of the other adverse reactions or toxicities associated with ifosfamide .
Advise the patient to report to their healthcare provider if his / her urine has turned a pink or red color [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise the patient to drink 1 to 2 liters of fluid each day during mesna therapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Dermatologic Toxicity • Advise the patient that Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms and bullous and ulcerative skin and mucosal reactions have occurred with mesna .
Advise the patient to report to their healthcare provider if signs and symptoms of these syndromes occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Benzyl Alcohol Toxicity • Advise patients that serious adverse reactions are associated with the benzyl alcohol found in mesna and other medications in premature neonates and low - birth weight infants [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Mesna is used in combination with ifosfamide .
Ifosfamide or other cytotoxic agents can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Inform female patients of the risk to a fetus and potential loss of the pregnancy .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or become pregnant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception • Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with mesna in combination with ifosamide and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with mesna in combination with ifosamide and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise lactating women not to breastfeed during treatment with mesna or ifosfamide and for 1 week after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
SAGENT ® Mfd .
for SAGENT Pharmaceuticals Schaumburg , IL 60195 ( USA ) Made in India © 2021 Sagent Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Revised : January 2021 SAGENT Pharmaceuticals ® PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 25021 - 201 - 10 Rx only Mesna Injection 1 gram per 10 mL ( 100 mg per mL ) For Intravenous Use 10 mL Multi - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
