[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION FLAREX ® ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) is a corticosteroid prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic suspension .
The active ingredient , fluorometholone acetate , is a white to creamy white powder with an empirical formula of C24H31FO5 and a molecular weight of 418 . 5 .
Its chemical name is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 6α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - acetate .
The chemical structure of Fluorometholone Acetate is presented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains : Active : fluorometholone acetate 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , tyloxapol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , and purified water .
The pH of the suspension is approximately 7 . 3 , with an osmolality of approximately 300 mOsm / kg .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Corticosteroids suppress the inflammatory response to inciting agents of mechanical , chemical or immunological nature .
No generally accepted explanation of this steroid property has been advanced .
Corticosteroids cause a rise in intraocular pressure in susceptible individuals .
In a small study , FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) demonstrated a significantly longer average time to produce a rise in intraocular pressure than did dexamethasone phosphate ; however , the ultimate magnitude of the rise was equivalent for both drugs and in a small percentage of individuals a significant rise in intraocular pressure occurred within three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) is indicated for use in the treatment of steroid responsive inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the eye .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in acute superficial herpes simplex keratitis , vaccinia , varicella , and most other viral diseases of cornea and conjunctiva ; mycobacterial infection of the eye ; fungal diseases ; acute purulent untreated infections , which like other diseases caused by microorganisms , may be masked or enhanced by the presence of the steroid ; and in those persons who have known hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Use in the treatment of herpes simplex infection requires great caution .
Prolonged use may result in glaucoma , damage to the optic nerve , defect in visual acuity and visual field , cataract formation and / or may aid in the establishment of secondary ocular infections from pathogens due to suppression of host response .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or exacerbated by presence of steroid medication .
Topical ophthalmic corticosteroids may slow corneal wound healing .
In those diseases causing thinning of the cornea or sclera , perforation has been known to occur with chronic use of topical steroids .
It is advisable that the intraocular pressure be checked frequently .
PRECAUTIONS General Fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term local steroid application .
Fungus invasion must be considered in any persistent corneal ulceration where a steroid has been used or is in use .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the suspension .
The preservative in FLAREX ® ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) , benzalkonium chloride , may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed during instillation of FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) but may be reinserted 15 minutes after instillation .
Patients should be advised that their vision may be temporarily blurred following dosing with FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) .
Care should be exercised in operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No studies have been conducted in animals or in humans to evaluate the possibility of these effects with fluorometholone .
Pregnancy Fluorometholone has been shown to be embryocidal and teratogenic in rabbits when administered at low multiples of the human ocular dose .
Fluorometholone was applied ocularly to rabbits daily on days 6 - 18 of gestation , and dose - related fetal loss and fetal abnormalities including cleft palate , deformed rib cage , anomalous limbs and neural abnormalities such as encephalocele , craniorachischisis , and spina bifida were observed .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies of fluorometholone in pregnant women , and it is not known whether fluorometholone can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fluorometholone should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) , is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Glaucoma with optic nerve damage , visual acuity and field defects , cataract formation , secondary ocular infection following suppression of host response , and perforation of the globe may occur .
Postmarketing Experience : The following reaction has been identified during post - marketing use of FLAREX ® ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) in clinical practice .
Because reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The reactions , which has been chosen for inclusion due to either its seriousness , frequency of reporting , possible causal connection to FLAREX , or a combination of these factors , includes : dysgeusia .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Shake Well Before Using .
One to two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily .
During the initial 24 to 48 hours the dosage may be safely increased to two drops every two hours .
If no improvement after two weeks , consult physician .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
HOW SUPPLIED FLAREX ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) is supplied in white low density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottles , with natural LDPE dispensing plugs and pink polypropylene closures .
The product is supplied as 5 mL in an 8 mL bottle .
5 mL : NDC 0065 - 0096 - 05 STORAGE : Store upright between 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Protect from freezing .
© 2002 , 2004 , 2006 , 2016 Novartis Distributed by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Revised : October 2016 ALCON ® a Novartis company 9012837 - 0116 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0065 - 0096 - 05 Alcon ® a Novartis company Flarex ® ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % 5 mLSterile Rx Only STORAGE : Store upright between 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
© 2004 , 2006 , 2016 Novartis Each mL CONTAINS : Active : fluorometholone acetate 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , tyloxapol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , and purified water .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
One to two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily .
During the initial 24 to 48 hours , the dosage may be safely increased to two drops every two hours .
If no improvement after two weeks , consult physician .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
Alcon ® ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA Country of Origin : Italy A190374 - 0416 LOT : EXP . : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0065 - 0096 - 05 Alcon ® Flarex ® ( fluorometholone acetate ophthalmic suspension ) 0 . 1 % Sterile 5 mL Rx Only STERILE FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Each mL contains : Active : fluorometholone acetate 0 . 1 % ( 1 mg ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactive : sodium chloride , monobasic sodium phosphate , edetate disodium , hydroxyethyl cellulose , tyloxapol , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , and purified water .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
One to two drops instilled into the conjunctival sac ( s ) four times daily .
During the initial 24 to 48 hours , the dosage may be safely increased to two drops every two hours .
If no improvement after two weeks , consult physician .
Care should be taken not to discontinue therapy prematurely .
STORAGE : Store upright between 2 ° - 25 ° C ( 36 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Protect From Freezing .
ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 USA © 2004 , 2006 , 2016 Novartis LOT : EXP . : A190371 - 0416 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
