Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients water , diisopropyl adipate , cyclomethicone , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , glyceryl stearate , PET - 100 stearate , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , tocopyeryl acetate , carbomer , disodium EDTA , trietanoolamine , potassium sorbate * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Galderma Laboratories , LP , distributor of Cetaphil Daily Facial Moistrizer SPF 15 Made in the USA with US and foreign components May stain or damage some fabric or surfaces .
Manufactured for Big Lots by : Vi - Jon , Inc .
8515 Page Avenue St . Louis , MO 63114 995 . 001 / 995 AB principal display panel Sound Body Compare to Cetaphil Daily Facial Moisturizer * Daily Facial Moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Non - comedogenic UVA / UVB protection Helps revent sunburn Fragrance Free Lightweight & non - greasy 4 . 8 FL OZ ( 141 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
