Active ingredients Cetylpyridinium chloride 0 . 07 % Purpose Antigingivitis , Antiplaque Use helps control plaque that leads to gingivitis Warnings for this product Stop use and ask a dentist if • gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for ore than 2 weeks • you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth or increased spacing between the teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If more than used for rinsing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • adults and children 6 years & older : rinse for 30 seconds with 20 mL ( 4 teaspoonfulw ) twice a day • do not swallow • children 6 years to under 12 years of age : supervise use • when used after brushing , rinse mouth with water first • children under 6 years of age : do not use Other information • this rinse is not intended to replace brushing or flossing inactive ingredients water , glycerin , flavor , poloxamer 188 , sodium saccharin , propylene glycol , sodium benzoate , sucralose , benzoic acid , blue 1 multi - action alcohol - free antiseptic rinse For better oral hygiene and fresher breath Sealed with printed neckband for your protection This rinse may cause temporary staining to the surface of teeth .
This is not harmful and adequate brushing may prevent tis occurrence .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Crest Pro - Health Multi - Protection Alcool Free Rinse - Refreshing Clean Mint DISTRIBUTED BY SUPERVALU INC .
EDEN PRAIRIE , MN 55344 USA Contact us at 1 - 877 - 932 - 7948 or www . supervalu - ourownbrands . com principal display panel compare to Crest Pro - Health Alcool Free Rinse active ingredient * EQUALINE multi - action alcohol - free antigingivitis / antiplaque mouth rinse • kills germs • helps prevent plaque • helps prevent gingivitis • freshens breath • no burn of alcohol fresh mint 1 L ( 33 . 8 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
