[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION Lidocaine 4 % cream is a non - greasy cream specially formulated with soothing agents , indicated as a topical anesthetic for use on normal intact skin for local analgesia and itching due to minor cuts , minor scrapes , sunburn , minor skin irritations , minor burns and insect bites .
INGREDIENTS ACTIVE : Lidocaine ( 4 % ) INACTIVE : Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Edetate Disodium , Light Mineral Oil , Methylparaben , Polyoxyl 20 Cetostearyl Ether , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Citrate and White Petrolatum .
The chemical designation of Lidocaine is 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , acetamide .
The structure of lidocaine is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] MECHANISM OF ACTION Lidocaine 4 % cream applied to intact skin provides dermal analgesia by the release of lidocaine from the cream into the epidermis and dermis .
Lidocaine is a local anesthetic agent of the amide type .
Local anesthetics reversibly block the initiation and conduction of nerve impulses by interfering with the flux of sodium ions through the neuronal membrane .
The onset , depth and duration of dermal analgesia provided depend upon the site and duration of application .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine 4 % cream is indicated for use on normal intact skin for temporary relief of pain and itching due to minor cuts , minor scrapes , minor skin irritations , minor burns and insect bites .
Lidocaine 4 % cream is not recommended for internal use , in the or near the eyes and in large quantities , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine 4 % cream is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to amide type local anesthetics or to any component of the product .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
Do not use over large areas of the body .
Do not use for more than seven days unless directed by a doctor .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Inappropriate use of this product , such as on large areas of the body , application on mucous membranes , or on individuals that are allergic to the amide type anesthetics , may result in serious side effects .
Consultation with a doctor before using this product is strongly recommended .
PRECAUTIONS Repeated doses of lidocaine 4 % cream may increase blood levels of lidocaine .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If eye contact occurs , immediately wash out the eye with water or saline .
The patient should be aware that dermal analgesia may be accompanied by the block of all sensations in the treated skin .
For this reason , the patient should avoid inadvertent trauma to the treated area by scratching , rubbing or exposure to extreme hot or cold temperatures until complete sensation has returned .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Lidocaine 4 % cream should be used with caution in patients receiving Class I antiarrhythmic agents ( e . g . , tocainide , mexiletine ) since the toxic effects are potentially additive and synergistic .
DIRECTIONS • Adults and children 2 years and older .
Apply externally to the affected area up to 3 to 4 times a day .
• Children under 2 years of age .
Consult a doctor .
HOW SUPPLIED NDC 52565 - 122 - 07 ( 5 x 5 gram tubes ) NDC 52565 - 122 - 15 ( 15 gram tubes ) NDC 52565 - 122 - 30 ( 30 gram tubes ) Store at USP controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Teligent Pharma , Inc .
Buena , New Jersey 08310 PI - 122 - 01 Revised 09 / 2018 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 52565 - 122 - 15 Lidocaine Cream 4 % Net Wt .
15 grams For Topical Use Only Do Not Use in the Eyes [ MULTIMEDIA ]
