CII WARNING : May be habit forming Rx only DESCRIPTION Meperidine hydrochloride is a white crystalline substance with a melting point of 186 ° C to 189 ° C .
It is readily soluble in water and has a neutral reaction and a slightly bitter taste .
The solution is not decomposed by a short period of boiling .
Each tablet , for oral administration , contains 50 mg or 100 mg meperidine hydrochloride .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate and stearic acid .
Chemically , meperidine hydrochloride is 4 - Piperidinecarboxylic acid , 1 - methyl - 4 - phenyl - , ethyl ester , hydrochloride and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meperidine hydrochloride is a narcotic analgesic with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of morphine ; the most prominent of these involve the central nervous system and organs composed of smooth muscle .
The principal actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation .
There is some evidence which suggests that meperidine may produce less smooth muscle spasm , constipation , and depression of the cough reflex than equianalgesic doses of morphine .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to meperidine or to any of its ingredients .
Meperidine is contraindicated in patients who are receiving monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or those who have recently received such agents .
Therapeutic doses of meperidine have occasionally precipitated unpredictable , severe , and occasionally fatal reactions in patients who have received such agents within 14 days .
The mechanism of these reactions is unclear , but may be related to a preexisting hyperphenylalaninemia .
Some have been characterized by coma , severe respiratory depression , cyanosis , and hypotension , and have resembled the syndrome of acute narcotic overdose .
Serotonin syndrome with agitation , hyperthermia , diarrhea , tachycardia , sweating , tremors and impaired consciousness may also occur .
In other reactions the predominant manifestations have been hyperexcitability , convulsions , tachycardia , hyperpyrexia , and hypertension .
Although it is not known that other narcotics are free of the risk of such reactions , virtually all of the reported reactions have occurred with meperidine .
If a narcotic is needed in such patients , a sensitivity test should be performed in which repeated , small , incremental doses of morphine are administered over the course of several hours while the patient ' s condition and vital signs are under careful observation .
( Intravenous hydrocortisone or prednisolone have been used to treat severe reactions , with the addition of intravenous chlorpromazine in those cases exhibiting hypertension and hyperpyrexia .
The usefulness and safety of narcotic antagonists in the treatment of these reactions is unknown . )
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe respiratory insufficiency ( see WARNINGS : Respiratory Conditions ) .
WARNINGS Meperidine should not be used for treatment of chronic pain .
Meperidine should only be used in the treatment of acute episodes of moderate to severe pain .
Prolonged meperidine use may increase the risk of toxicity ( e . g . , seizures ) from the accumulation of the meperidine metabolite , normeperidine .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are opioid agonists and a Schedule II controlled substance with an abuse liability similar to morphine .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing meperidine hydrochloride tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse , abuse , or diversion .
Misuse , Abuse , and Diversion of Opioids Meperidine is an opioid agonist of the morphine - type .
Such drugs are sought by drug abusers and people with addiction disorders and are subject to criminal diversion .
Meperidine can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing meperidine hydrochloride tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse , abuse , or diversion .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets have been reported as being abused by crushing , chewing , snorting , or injecting the dissolved product .
These practices will result in the uncontrolled delivery of the opioid and pose a significant risk to the abuser that could result in overdose or death ( see WARNINGS and DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION ) .
Concerns about abuse , addiction , and diversion should not prevent the proper management of pain .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substances Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
Interactions with Alcohol and Drugs of Abuse Meperidine may be expected to have additive effects when used in conjunction with alcohol , other opioids , or illicit drugs that cause central nervous system depression .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure The respiratory depressant effects of meperidine and its capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
In such patients , meperidine must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential .
Respiratory Conditions Meperidine should be used with extreme caution in patients having an acute asthmatic attack , patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cor pulmonale , patients having a substantially decreased respiratory reserve , and patients with preexisting respiratory depression , hypoxia , or hypercapnia .
In such patients , even usual therapeutic doses of narcotics may decrease respiratory drive while simultaneously increasing airway resistance to the point of apnea .
Hypotensive Effect The administration of meperidine may result in severe hypotension in the postoperative patient or any individual whose ability to maintain blood pressure has been compromised by a depleted blood volume or the administration of drugs such as the phenothiazines or certain anesthetics .
Usage in Ambulatory Patients Meperidine may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
The patient should be cautioned accordingly .
Meperidine , like other narcotics , may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients .
Usage in Pregnancy Meperidine should not be used in pregnant women prior to the labor period , unless in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible risks , because safe use in pregnancy prior to labor has not been established relative to possible adverse effects on fetal development .
Labor and Delivery Meperidine crosses the placental barrier and can produce depression of respiration and psychophysiologic functions in the newborn .
Resuscitation may be required ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Therefore meperidine is not recommended during labor .
Nursing Mothers Meperidine appears in the milk of nursing mothers receiving the drug .
Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the potential benefits of the drug to the nursing woman .
PRECAUTIONS General Opioid analgesics can have a narrow therapeutic index in certain patient populations , particularly when combined with CNS depressant drugs .
The use of these products should be reserved for cases where the benefits of opioid analgesia outweigh the known risks of respiratory depression , altered mental state , and postural hypotension .
Use of meperidine hydrochloride tablets may be associated with increased potential risks and should be used with caution in the following conditions : sickle cell anemia , pheochromocytoma , acute alcoholism ; adrenocortical insufficiency ( e . g . , Addison ' s disease ) ; CNS depression or coma ; delirium tremens ; debilitated patients ; kyphoscoliosis associated with respiratory depression ; myxedema or hypothyroidism ; prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture ; severe impairment of hepatic , pulmonary , or renal function ; and toxic psychosis ( see PRECAUTIONS : Special Risk Patients ) .
The administration of meperidine may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
All opioids may induce or aggravate seizures in some clinical settings .
Interactions with Other CNS Depressants Meperidine hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution and consideration should be given to starting with a reduced dosage in patients who are concurrently receiving other central nervous system depressants including sedatives or hypnotics , general anesthetics , phenothiazines , other tranquilizers , and alcohol .
Drug - drug interactions may result in respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , coma , or death if these drugs are taken in combination with the usual doses of meperidine hydrochloride tablets .
Interactions with Mixed Agonist / Antagonist Opioid Analgesics Agonist / antagonist analgesics ( i . e . , pentazocine , nalbuphine , butorphanol , and buprenorphine ) should be administered with caution to a patient who has received or is receiving a course of therapy with a pure opioid agonist analgesic such as meperidine .
In this situation , mixed agonist / antagonist analgesics may reduce the analgesic effect of meperidine and / or may precipitate withdrawal symptoms in these patients due to competitive blocking of receptors .
Supraventricular Tachycardias Meperidine should be used with caution in patients with atrial flutter and other supraventricular tachycardias because of a possible vagolytic action which may produce a significant increase in the ventricular response rate .
Convulsions Meperidine may aggravate preexisting convulsions in patients with convulsive disorders .
If dosage is escalated substantially above recommended levels because of tolerance development , convulsions may occur in individuals without a history of convulsive disorders .
Acute Abdominal Conditions The administration of meperidine or other narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course in patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Tolerance and Physical Dependence Meperidine has the potential to produce tolerance and drug dependence .
Tolerance is the need for increasing doses of opioids to maintain a defined effect such as analgesia ( in the absence of disease progression or other external factors ) .
Physical dependence is manifested by withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a drug or upon administration of an antagonist .
Physical dependence and tolerance are not unusual during chronic opioid therapy .
The opioid abstinence or withdrawal syndrome is characterized by some or all of the following : restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , mydriasis .
Other symptoms also may develop , including : irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
In general , opioids used regularly should not be abruptly discontinued .
Use in Drug and Alcohol Addiction Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are opioids with no approved use in the management of addictive disorders .
Its proper usage in individuals with drug or alcohol dependence , either active or in remission , is for the management of pain requiring opioid analgesia .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets should be used with caution in patients with alcoholism and other drug dependencies due to the increased frequency of narcotic tolerance , dependence , and the risk of addiction observed in these patient populations .
Abuse of meperidine hydrochloride tablets in combination with other CNS depressant drugs can result in serious risk to the patient .
Information for Patients / Caregivers If clinically advisable , patients receiving meperidine hydrochloride tablets or their caregivers should be given the following information by the physician , nurse , pharmacist , or caregiver : • Patients should be aware that meperidine hydrochloride tablets contain meperidine , which is a morphine - like substance .
• Patients should be advised to report pain and adverse experiences occurring during therapy .
Individualization of dosage is essential to make optimal use of this medication .
• Patients should be advised not to adjust the dose of meperidine hydrochloride tablets without consulting the prescribing professional .
• Patients should be advised that meperidine hydrochloride tablets may impair mental and / or physical ability required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks ( e . g . , driving , operating heavy machinery ) .
• Patients should not combine meperidine hydrochloride tablets with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants ( sleep aids , tranquilizers ) except by the orders of the prescribing physician , because dangerous additive effects may occur , resulting in serious injury or death .
• Women of childbearing potential who become , or are planning to become pregnant should be advised to consult their physician regarding the effects of analgesics and other drug use during pregnancy on themselves and their unborn child .
• Patients should be advised that meperidine hydrochloride tablets are a potential drug of abuse .
They should protect them from theft , and they should never be given to anyone other than the individual for whom they were prescribed .
• Patients should be advised that if they have been receiving treatment with meperidine hydrochloride tablets for more than a few weeks and cessation of therapy is indicated , it may be appropriate to taper the meperidine hydrochloride tablets dose , rather than abruptly discontinue it , due to the risk of precipitating withdrawal symptoms .
Their physician can provide a dose schedule to accomplish a gradual discontinuation of the medication .
• Patients should be instructed to keep meperidine hydrochloride tablets in a secure place out of the reach of children .
When meperidine hydrochloride tablets are no longer needed , the unused tablets should be destroyed by flushing down the toilet .
Drug Interactions Also see WARNINGS .
Acyclovir Plasma concentrations of meperidine and its metabolite , normeperidine , may be increased by acyclovir , thus caution should be used with concomitant administration .
Cimetidine Cimetidine reduced the clearance and volume of distribution of meperidine and also the formation of the metabolite , normeperidine , in healthy subjects and thus , caution should be used with concomitant administration .
CNS Depressants Concomitant use of CNS depressants with usual doses of meperidine may result in respiratory depression , hypotension , profound sedation , coma or death ( see PRECAUTIONS : Interactions with Other CNS Depressants ) .
Phenytoin The hepatic metabolism of meperidine may be enhanced by phenytoin .
Concomitant administration resulted in reduced half - life and bioavailability with increased clearance of meperidine in healthy subjects , however , blood concentrations of normeperidine were increased , thus exercise caution when phenytoin is used concomitantly with meperidine .
Ritonavir Plasma concentrations of the active metabolite normeperidine may be increased by ritonavir , thus concomitant administration should be avoided .
Opioid analgesics , including meperidine hydrochloride tablets , may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of skeletal muscle relaxants and produce an increased degree of respiratory depression .
Special Risk Patients Meperidine should be given with caution and the initial dose should be reduced in certain patients such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , Sickle Cell Anemia , hypothyroidism , Addison ' s disease , Pheochromocytoma and prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture .
In patients with pheochromocytoma , meperidine has been reported to provoke hypertension .
Usage in Hepatically Impaired Patients Accumulation of meperidine and / or its active metabolite , normeperidine , can occur in patients with hepatic impairment .
Meperidine should therefore be used with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Usage in Renally Impaired Patients Accumulation of meperidine and / or its active metabolite , normeperidine , can also occur in patients with renal impairment .
Meperidine should therefore be used with caution in patients with renal impairment .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies to assess the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of meperidine have not been conducted .
Studies to determine the effect of meperidine on fertility have not been conducted .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with meperidine .
It is also not known whether meperidine hydrochloride tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery See WARNINGS .
Nursing Mothers See WARNINGS .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of meperidine in pediatric patients has not been established .
Literature reports indicate that meperidine has a slower elimination rate in neonates and young infants compared to older children and adults .
Neonates and young infants may also be more susceptible to the effects , especially the respiratory depressant effects .
If meperidine use is contemplated in neonates or young infants , any potential benefits of the drug need to be weighed against the relative risk of the patient .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of meperidine hydrochloride tablets during product development did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to evaluate age - related differences in safety or efficacy .
Literature reports indicate that geriatric patients have a slower elimination rate compared to young patients and they may be more susceptible to the effects of meperidine .
Reducing the total daily dose of meperidine is recommended in elderly patients and the potential benefits of the drug should be weighed against the relative risk to a geriatric patient .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The major hazards of meperidine , as with other narcotic analgesics , are respiratory depression and , to a lesser degree , circulatory depression ; respiratory arrest , shock , and cardiac arrest have occurred .
The most frequently observed adverse reactions include lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea , vomiting , and sweating .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory patients and in those who are not experiencing severe pain .
In such individuals , lower doses are advisable .
Some adverse reactions in ambulatory patients may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include : Nervous System : Mood changes ( e . g . , euphoria , dysphoria ) , weakness , headache , agitation , tremor , involuntary muscle movements ( e . g . , muscle twitches , myoclonus ) , severe convulsions , transient hallucinations and disorientation , confusion , delirium , visual disturbances .
Gastrointestinal : Dry mouth , constipation , biliary tract spasm .
Cardiovascular : Flushing of the face , tachycardia , bradycardia , palpitation , hypotension ( see WARNINGS ) , syncope .
Genitourinary : Urinary retention .
Allergic : Pruritus , urticaria , other skin rashes , wheal and flare over the vein with intravenous injection .
Hypersensitivity reactions , anaphylaxis .
Histamine release leading to hypotension and / or tachycardia , flushing , sweating , and pruritus .
DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION Meperidine hydrochloride tablets contain meperidine , a mu - agonist opioid with an abuse liability similar to morphine and is a Schedule II controlled substance .
Meperidine , like morphine and other opioids used in analgesia , can be abused and is subject to criminal diversion .
Drug addiction is characterized by compulsive use , use for non - medical purposes , and continued use despite harm or risk of harm .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , utilizing a multi - disciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
" Drug seeking " behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated " loss " of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
" Doctor shopping " to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physicians should be aware that addiction may not be accompanied by concurrent tolerance and symptoms of physical dependence in all addicts .
In addition , abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets , like other opioids , have been diverted for non - medical use .
Careful record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Abuse of meperidine hydrochloride tablets poses a risk of overdose and death .
This risk is increased with concurrent abuse of meperidine hydrochloride tablets with alcohol and other substances .
Due to the presence of talc as one of the excipients in tablets , parenteral abuse of crushed tablets can be expected to result in local tissue necrosis , infection , pulmonary granulomas , and increased risk of endocarditis and valvular heart disease .
In addition , parenteral drug abuse is commonly associated with transmission of infectious diseases such as hepatitis and HIV .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms Serious overdosage with meperidine is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , hypothermia , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , particularly by the intravenous route , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest , and death may occur .
Treatment Primary attention should be given to the reestablishment of adequate respiratory exchange through provision of a patent airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation .
The narcotic antagonist , naloxone hydrochloride , is a specific antidote against respiratory depression which may result from overdosage or unusual sensitivity to narcotics , including meperidine .
Therefore , an appropriate dose of this antagonist should be administered as necessary , preferably by the intravenous route , simultaneously with efforts at respiratory resuscitation .
An antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
In cases of overdosage with meperidine hydrochloride tablets , the stomach should be evacuated by emesis or gastric lavage .
NOTE : In an individual physically dependent on narcotics , the administration of the usual dose of a narcotic antagonist will precipitate an acute withdrawal syndrome .
The severity of this syndrome will depend on the degree of physical dependence and the dose of antagonist administered .
The use of narcotic antagonists in such individuals should be avoided if possible .
If a narcotic antagonist must be used to treat serious respiratory depression in the physically dependent patient , the antagonist should be administered with extreme care and only one - fifth to one - tenth the usual initial dose administered .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Relief of Pain Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
Meperidine is less effective orally than on parenteral administration .
The dose of meperidine hydrochloride tablets should be proportionately reduced ( usually by 25 to 50 percent ) when administered concomitantly with phenothiazines and many other tranquilizers since they potentiate the action of meperidine hydrochloride tablets .
Adults The usual dosage is 50 mg to 150 mg orally , every 3 or 4 hours as necessary .
Pediatric Patients The usual dosage is 1 . 1 mg / kg to 1 . 8 mg / kg orally , up to the adult dose , every 3 or 4 hours as necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
SAFETY AND HANDLING Meperidine hydrochloride tablets are a dosage form that contains meperidine hydrochloride which is a controlled substance .
Like morphine , meperidine is controlled under Schedule II of the Controlled Substances Act .
Meperidine , like all opioids , is liable to diversion and misuse and should be handled accordingly .
Patients and their families should be instructed to flush any meperidine hydrochloride tablets that are no longer needed .
Meperidine hydrochloride tablets have been targeted for theft and diversion by criminals .
Healthcare professionals should contact their State Professional Licensing Board or State Controlled Substance Authority for information on how to prevent and detect abuse or diversion of this product .
HOW SUPPLIED Meperidine HCl Tablets of 50 mg , white , round , convex , bisected tablets , debossed " 4171 " over " V " on one side and plain on the reverse side , are available in bottles of Bottles of 10 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 1 Bottles of 20 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 6 Bottles of 30 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 3 Bottles of 40 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 2 Bottles of 100 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 4 Bottles of 120 NDC 54868 - 1233 - 5 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : QUALITEST PHARMACEUTICALS Huntsville , AL 35811 8181647 R12 / 11 - R7 Relabeling and Repackaging by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
