This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin that could cause disease .
Recommeded for repeated use Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only .
Do not use • for children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly cover your hands .
• Rub hands together briskly until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product Other information • Store below 110 oF ( 43 oC ) • May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Warnings : Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses : • Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin that could cause diease • Recommended for repeated use Directions : • Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly cover your hands • Rub hands together briskly unitl dry • Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product Package Label - Principal Display Panel 18900 mL NDC : 77183 - 5195 - 0 18900 mL in ONE PAIL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
