Active Ingredients Avoebenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 5 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses helps prevent sunburn .
if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin again caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at tremperatures above 120 F .
Do not use in the presence of a flame or spark .
Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
keep out os eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help ot contact a Posion Control Center right away .
May stain some fabrics .
Directions hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply .
spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure .
do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
do not apply in windy conditions .
use in well - ventialated area .
repply : after 80 minutes of swmming or sweating , immediately after towel drying , at least every 2 hours .
Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . , wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
children under 6 months : Ask a doctor .
Inactive Ingredients Isobutane , Alcohol Denat . , Isododecane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Lauryl PEG - 8 Dimethicone , Phenylisopropyl Dimethicone , Polyglyceryl - 3 Stearate / Isostearate / Dimer Dilinoleate Crosspolymer , Caprylyl Glycol , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Fragrance , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Tocopheryl Acetate , Mineral Oil , Panthenol , Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract .
Other Information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 800 SafeSun , Mon - Fri [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clear Ultramist BANANA BOAT SPORT Performance With POWERSTAY TECHNOLOGY continuous spray sunscreen 50 + UVA / UVB PROTECTION BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 + HEAVY - DUTY PROTECTION ULTRA - LIGHTWEIGHT FEEL WATER & SWEAT RESISTANT ( 80 MINUTES ) SWIM SPLASH SPORT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
