additional warnings Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequences Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough suppressant + topical analgesic Use • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to the common cold • on muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smokng , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
This could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions See important warnings under " When using this product " • adults & children 2 yrs & over : • rub a thick layer on chest & throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol Questions Call 1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Side Panel Information Medicated Chest Rub Cough Suppressant / Topical Analgesic The active ingredents in Premier Value Medicated chest rub work naturally by breathing in the medicated vapors to relieve coughing due to colds .
Premier Value Medicated Chest Rub also relieves minor aches and pains disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks VapoRub adverse reactions Distributed By : Pharmacy Value Alliance , LLC 407 East lancaster Avenue , Wayne , PA 19087 www . emersongroup . com principal display panel Compare to Vicks Vapor Rub Premier Value Medicated Chest Rub Cough Supprassant / Topical Analgasia NET WT 3 . 53 OZ ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
