Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Inactive ingredients Water Purpose SUITABLE FOR : Use on a varlety of hard , nonporous surfaces where bacteria or unpleasant odors are a concern , including but not limited to : countertops , food preparation surfaces , floors , appliances , garbage cans , changing tables , appliances , garbage cans , changing tables , highchairs , cribs , children ' s toys , toilet seats , door knobs , desks , pet habitats .
This product is used to wipe hands , faces , skins , etc .
It can also be used to clean many kinds of places .
Do not use on children less than 2 months of age on open skin wounds if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
Use DIRECTIONS FOR USE : It is a violation of Federal law to use this product in a manner inconsistent with its labeling .
For heavily soiled or greasy areas , pre - cleaning is required .
TO OPEN PACKAGE : Open the lid and pull corner of wipe from top of the stack .
Drag the wipe out of the opening , pulling it through to next perforation and tear off the wipe if necessary .
Close lid immediately to retain moistrue .
TO CLEAN : Wet the surface with the wipe & wipe clean .
For stubbom stains , let stand for a few minutes .
TO DISINFECT & DEODORIZE : 1 .
Wet the surface with the wipe ( spot test to check surface compatibility ) .
2 .
Leave visibly wet for 10 minutes .
Allow to air - dry .
No rinsing or wiping is required ( even on food contact surfaces ) .
WIPE MATERIAL : Spunlace non - woven fabric Gluten free .
No phosphates .
Learn more at www . schneidercare . com Directions Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Warnings Do not apply this product to red and swollen skin , wound or any part sensitive to it .
Keep this product out of children ’ s reach in case they might eat it .
Alcohol is violatile , please use it as soon as possible after opening , store it in a cool and dry place , avoid direct sunlight and open fire , and avoid contact with eyes and damaged skin .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Dispose of wipe in trash after use .
Do not flush .
Tightly close lid between uses to retain moisture .
Non refillable container .
Do not reuse or refill this empty bag .
Offer empty bag for recycling .
If recycling is not available , discard in trash .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 50 CLOTH IN 1 BAG NDC : 78450 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 CLOTH IN 1 BAG NDC : 78450 - 001 - 02 10 CLOTH IN 1 BAG NDC : 78450 - 001 - 03 80 CLOTH IN 1 BAG NDC : 78450 - 001 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
