Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl alcohol 70 % w / w , 2 - Propanol 0 . 5 % w / w Purpose Antiseptic Alcohol - based hand disinfectant Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings This product is only for external use .
Keep away from children , food , and animal feed .
Do not swallow .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Put enough product ( app . 3 - 5 ml ) on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together , until hands feel dry .
This should take araound 20 seconds .
Do not rinse or wipe off the hand sanitizer before it ' s dry ; it may not work as well against germs .
Supervise children under 6 years of age when they use hand sanitizer gel to prevent swallowing alcohol , especially in schools and childcare facilities .
Other information Do not use other disinfectant and cleaning agents .
It should be used in it ' s orginal packaging .
Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) .
Protect from direct sunlight .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Glycerin , Fragrance , Citric acid , Purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel DTH Saglik Hizmetleri Tic .
A . S . Merkez : Incek Mehmetcik Cad .
2654 .
Sk .
No : 2 Golbasi - Ankara T : + 90 312 211 05 06 F : + 90 312 211 05 00 wwww . dthsaglik . com - www . idkimya . com I & D sept INTERNATIONAL DISINFECTION ANTI - BACTERIAL ALCOHOL BASED HAND AND SKIN AEROSOL SPRAY DISINFECTANT For External Use Only KILLS 99 , 9 % of germs without water KILLS 99 , 9 % VIRUSES & BACTERIA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
