Active ingredient Povidone Iodine USP 10 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Uses • Health Care Antiseptic for preparation of the skin prior to surgery • First Aid Antiseptic to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns Warnings For external use only Do not • use in the eyes • use on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine • apply over large areas of the body • use as a first aid antiseptic for longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Discontinue use if irritation and redness develop .
Consult a doctor in case of • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and consult a doctor If condition persists or gets worse .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : For preparation of the skin prior to surgery • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product to the area For use as a first aid antispetic • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product on the area 1 - 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • If bandaged , let dry first .
Other Information : Store at room temperature : 59 o - 86 o F ( 15 o - 30 o C ) Inactive Ingredients citric acid , glycerin , Makon 8 , purified water , sodium hydroxide Package Label Specialty Medical Supplies Povidone Iodine Prep Pads Medium For Individual , Professional and Hospital Use Saturated with 10 % Povidone Iodine for external use only 100 Individual Pads Latex free Two ply folded pad 10 % Povidone Iodine for optimum bacterial action Use for preparation of the skin prior to an injection ; to decrease germs in minor cuts and scrapes .
Four layer wrapper provides air - tight seal ... prevents leakage and drying out .
Manufactured by Specialty Medical Supplies Coral Springs , FL 33065 954 - 752 - 5603 www . specialtymedicalsupplies . com Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] Specialty Medical Supplies Povidone Iodine Prep Pads Medium For Individual , Professional and Hospital Use Saturated with 10 % Povidone Iodine for external use only 200 Individual Pads Latex free Two ply folded pad 10 % Povidone Iodine for optimum bacterial action Use for preparation of the skin prior to an injection ; to decrease germs in minor cuts and scrapes .
Four layer wrapper provides air - tight seal ... prevents leakage and drying out .
Manufactured by Specialty Medical Supplies Coral Springs , FL 33065 954 - 752 - 5603 www . specialtymedicalsupplies . com Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
