Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 61 % v / v .
Purpose : Antimicrobial Purpose Antimicrobial , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria and viruses on the skin which could cause illness or disease .
Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
For external use only Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if redness or irritation occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Apply enitre package contents onto hands and rub until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store below 110 o F ( 43 o C ) • May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces • www . ViRlogix . com Inactive ingredients Purified Water , Glycerol , Carbomer 940 , Hydrogen Peroxide , Trolamine , Eucalyptus Oil Warnings : Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only When using the product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughtly with water .
Stop use and consult a doctor if redness or irritation occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical helpor contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Use : Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria and viruses on the skin which could cause illness or disease Recommeded for repeated use Directions : Apply entire package contents onto hands and rub until dry Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product Package Label - Principal Display Panel NDC : 77183 - 8067 - 2 24 POUCHES in 1 BOX > . 0025 L in 1 POUCH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
