Rx only Solutions for local anesthesia in Dentistry DESCRIPTION Lidocaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine , USP is a sterile isotonic solution containing a local anesthetic agent , Lidocaine Hydrochloride , and a vasoconstrictor , Epinephrine ( as bitartrate ) and are administered parenterally by injection .
Both solutions are available in single dose cartridges of 1 . 7 mL ( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE for specific uses ) .
The solutions contain lidocaine hydrochloride which is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) - monohydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C14H22N20 • HCl • H20 M . W . 288 . 8 Epinephrine is ( - ) - 3 , 4 - Dihydroxy - α - [ ( Methylamino ) methyl ] benzyl alcohol and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C9H13NO3 M . W . 183 . 21 COMPOSITION OF AVAILABLE SOLUTIONSPRODUCT IDENTIFICATION FORMULA SINGLE DOSE CARTRIDGE Lidocaine hydrochloride Epinephrine ( as the bitartrate ) Sodium Chloride Potassium metabisulfite Edetate Disodium Concentration % Dilution ( mg / mL ) ( mg / mL ) ( mg / mL ) The pH of all solutions are adjusted to USP limits with sodium hydroxide .
2 1 : 50 , 000 6 . 5 1 . 2 0 . 25 2 1 : 100 , 000 6 . 5 1 . 2 0 . 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of action Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for the initiation and conduction of nerve impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Onset and duration of anesthesia When used for infiltration anesthesia in dental patients , the time of onset averages less than two minutes for Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections .
Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections provide an average pulp anesthesia of at least 60 minutes with an average duration of soft tissue anesthesia of approximately 2 ½ hours .
When used for nerve blocks in dental patients , the time of onset for both forms of Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections averages 2 - 4 minutes .
Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections provide pulp anesthesia averaging at least 90 minutes with an average duration of soft tissue anesthesia of 3 to 3 ½ hours .
Hemodynamics Excessive blood levels may cause changes in cardiac output , total peripheral resistance , and mean arterial pressure .
These changes may be attributable to a direct depressant effect of the local anesthetic agent on various components of the cardiovascular system and / or the beta - adrenergic receptor stimulating action of epinephrine when present .
Pharmacokinetics and metabolism Information derived from diverse formulations , concentrations and usages reveals that lidocaine is completely absorbed following parenteral administration , its rate of absorption depending , for example , upon various factors such as the site of administration and the presence or absence of a vasoconstrictor agent .
Except for intravascular administration , the highest blood levels are obtained following intercostal nerve block and the lowest after subcutaneous administration .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentration of 1 to 4 μg of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - l - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 . 0 μg free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 μg / mL have been shown to be the threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injection , USP is indicated for the production of local anesthesia for dental procedures by nerve block or infiltration techniques .
Only accepted procedures for these techniques as described in standard textbooks are recommended .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to any components of the injectable formulations .
WARNINGS DENTAL PRACTITIONERS WHO EMPLOY LOCAL ANESTHETIC AGENTS SHOULD BE WELL VERSED IN DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF EMERGENCIES WHICH MAY ARISE FROM THEIR USE .
RESUSCITATIVE EQUIPMENT , OXYGEN AND OTHER RESUSCITATIVE DRUGS SHOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE USE .
To minimize the likelihood of intravascular injection , aspiration should be performed before the local anesthetic solution is injected .
If blood is aspirated , the needle must be repositioned until no return of blood can be elicited by aspiration .
Note , however , that the absence of blood in the syringe does not assure that intravascular injection will be avoided .
Local anesthetic procedures should be used with caution when there is inflammation and / or sepsis in the region of the proposed injection .
Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections contain potassium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
The American Heart Association has made the following recommendations regarding the use of local anesthetics with vasoconstrictors in patients with ischemic heart disease : " Vasoconstrictor agents should be used in local anesthesia solutions during dental practice only when it is clear that the procedure will be shortened or the analgesia rendered more profound .
When a vasoconstrictor is indicated , extreme care should be taken to avoid intravascular injection .
The minimum possible amount of vasoconstrictor should be used . "
( Kaplan , EL , editor : Cardiovascular disease in dental practice , Dallas 1986 , American Heart Association . )
Methemoglobinemia : Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and / or abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue LIDOCAINE and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the signs and symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
A more severe clinical presentation may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
PRECAUTIONS General The safety and effectiveness of lidocaine depend on proper dosage , correct technique , adequate precautions and readiness for emergencies .
Consult standard textbooks for specific techniques and precautions for various regional anesthetic procedures .
Resuscitative equipment , oxygen and other resuscitative drugs should be available for immediate use ( See WARNINGS AND ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The lowest dosage that results in effective anesthesia should be used to avoid high plasma levels and serious adverse effects .
Repeated doses of lidocaine may cause significant increases in blood levels with each repeated dose due to slow accumulation of the drug or its metabolites .
Tolerance to elevated blood levels varies with the status of the patient .
Debilitated , elderly patients , acutely ill patients , and children should be given reduced doses commensurate with their age and physical condition .
If sedatives are employed to reduce patient apprehension , reduced doses should be used since local anesthetic agents , like sedatives , are central nervous system depressants which in combination may have an additive effect .
Young children should be given minimal doses of each agent .
Lidocaine should be used with caution in patients with severe shock or heart block .
Lidocaine should also be used with caution in patients with impaired cardiovascular function .
Local anesthetic solutions containing a vasoconstrictor should be used with caution in areas of the body supplied by end arteries or having otherwise compromised blood supply .
Patients with peripheral vascular disease and those with hypertensive vascular disease may exhibit exaggerated vasoconstrictor response .
Ischemic injury ( such as exfoliating or ulcerating lesions ) or necrosis may result .
Preparations containing a vasoconstrictor should be used with caution in patients during or following the administration of potent general anesthetic agents , since cardiac arrhythmias may occur under such conditions .
Cardiovascular and respiratory ( adequacy of ventilation ) vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness should be monitored after each local anesthetic injection .
Restlessness , anxiety tinnitus , dizziness , blurred vision , tremors , depression or drowsiness should alert the practitioner to the possibility of central nervous system toxicity .
Signs and symptoms of depressed cardiovascular function may commonly result from a vasovagal reaction , particularly if the patient is in an upright position : placing the patient in the recumbent position is recommended when an adverse response is noted after injection of a local anesthetic ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS - Cardiovascular System . )
Vasovagal reactions may elicit a range of clinical manifestations , from prodrome signs of pre - syncope ( e . g . lightheadedness , pallor , nausea , sweating , visual disturbances , weakness ) to brief loss of consciousness ( i . e . syncope ) .
Lidocaine should be used with caution in patients with hepatic disease , since amide - type local anesthetics are metabolized by the liver .
Patients with severe hepatic disease , because of their inability to metabolize local anesthetics normally , are at greater risk of developing toxic plasma concentrations .
Many drugs used during the conduct of anesthesia are considered potential triggering agents for familial malignant hyperthermia .
Since it is not known whether amide - type local anesthetics may trigger this reaction , and since the need for supplemental general anesthesia cannot be predicted in advance , it is suggested that a standard protocol for management should be available .
Early unexplained signs of tachycardia , tachypnea , labile blood pressure and metabolic acidosis may precede temperature elevation .
Successful outcome is dependent on early diagnosis , prompt discontinuance of the suspected triggering agent ( s ) and prompt treatment , including oxygen therapy , dantrolene ( consult dantrolene sodium intravenous package insert before using ) and other supportive measures .
Lidocaine should be used with caution in persons with known drug sensitivities .
Patients allergic to para - aminobenzoic acid derivatives ( procaine , tetracaine , benzocaine , etc . ) have not shown cross sensitivity to lidocaine .
Use in the Head and Neck Area Small doses of local anesthetics injected into the head and neck area , including retrobulbar , dental and stellate ganglion blocks , may produce adverse reactions similar to systemic toxicity seen with unintentional intravascular injections of larger doses .
Confusion , convulsions , respiratory depression and / or respiratory arrest , and cardiovascular stimulation or depression have been reported .
These reactions may be due to intra - arterial injection of the local anesthetic with retrograde flow to the cerebral circulation .
Patients receiving these blocks should have their circulation and respiration monitored and be constantly observed .
Resuscitative equipment and personnel for treating adverse reactions should be immediately available .
Dosage recommendations should not be exceeded ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for Patients / Patient Counseling Information The patient should be informed of the possibility of temporary loss of sensation and muscle function following infiltration or nerve block injections .
The patient should be advised to exert caution to avoid inadvertent trauma to the lips , tongue , cheek mucosae or soft palate when these structures are anesthetized .
The ingestion of food should therefore be postponed until normal function returns .
The patient should be advised to consult the dentist if anesthesia persists or if a rash develops .
Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Clinically Significant Drug Interactions The administration of local anesthetic solutions containing epinephrine or norepinephrine to patients receiving monoamine oxidase inhibitors , tricyclic antidepressants or phenothiazines may produce severe prolonged hypotension or hypertension .
Concurrent use of these agents should generally be avoided .
In situations when concurrent therapy is necessary , careful patient monitoring is essential .
Concurrent administration of vasopressor drugs and ergot - type oxytocic drugs may cause severe , persistent hypertension or cerebrovascular accidents .
As the Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections contain a vasoconstrictor ( epinephrine ) , concurrent use of either with a Beta - adrenergic blocking agent ( propranolol , timolol , etc . ) may result in dose - dependent hypertension and bradycardia with possible heart block .
Patients who are administered local anesthetics are at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following drugs , which could include other local anesthetics : EXAMPLES OF DRUGS ASSOCIATED WITH METHEMOGLOBINEMIA : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitric oxide , nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics articaine , benzocaine , bupivacaine , lidocaine , mepivacaine , prilocaine , procaine , ropivacaine , tetracaine Antineoplastic Agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , hydroxyurea , ifosfamide , rasburicase Antibiotics dapsone , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid , sulfonamides Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenobarbital , phenytoin , sodium valproate Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , quinine , sulfasalazine Drug / Laboratory test interactions The intramuscular injection of lidocaine may result in an increase in creatine phosphokinase levels .
Thus , the use of this enzyme determination , without isoenzyme separation , as a diagnostic test for the presence of acute myocardial infarction may be compromised by the intramuscular injection of lidocaine .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential or the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when lidocaine is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Dosages in pediatric population should be reduced , commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide - type local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels ( which may be caused by excessive dosage , rapid absorption , unintended intravascular injection or slow metabolic degradation ) , injection technique , volume of injection , hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central Nervous System CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations in response to lidocaine are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest . In addition , the beta - adrenergic receptor - stimulating action of epinephrine may lead to excitatory cardiovascular responses , such as tachycardia , palpitations , and hypertension .
Signs and symptoms of depressed cardiovascular function may commonly result from a vasovagal reaction , particularly if the patient is in an upright position .
Less commonly , they may result from a direct effect of the drug .
Failure to recognize the premonitory signs such as sweating , a feeling of faintness , changes in pulse or sensorium may result in progressive cerebral hypoxia and seizure or serious cardiovascular catastrophe .
Management consists of placing the patient in the recumbent position and ventilation with oxygen .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require the administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor ( e . g , ephedrine ) as directed by the clinical situation .
Allergic reactions Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema , anaphylactoid reactions , or dyspnea due to bronchoconstriction .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
Neurologic reactions The incidences of adverse reactions ( e . g . , persistent neurologic deficit ) associated with the use of local anesthetics may be related to the technique employed , the total dose of local anesthetic administered , the particular drug used , the route of administration , and the physical condition of the patient .
Persistent paresthesias of the lips , tongue , and oral tissues have been reported with the use of lidocaine , with slow , incomplete , or no recovery .
These post - marketing events have been reported chiefly following nerve blocks in the mandible and have involved the trigeminal nerve and its branches .
OVERDOSAGE Acute emergencies from local anesthetics are generally related to high plasma levels encountered during therapeutic use of local anesthetics or to unintended subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic solution ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS , WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ) .
Management of local anesthetic emergencies The first consideration is prevention , best accomplished by careful and constant monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory vital signs and the patient ' s state of consciousness after each local anesthetic injection .
At the first sign of change , oxygen should be administered .
The first step in the management of convulsions consists of immediate attention to the maintenance of a patent airway and assisted or controlled ventilation with oxygen and a delivery system capable of permitting immediate positive airway pressure by mask .
Immediately after the institution of these ventilatory measures , the adequacy of the circulation should be evaluated , keeping in mind that drugs used to treat convulsions sometimes depress the circulation when administered intravenously .
Should convulsions persist despite adequate respiratory support , and if the status of the circulation permits , small increments of an ultra - short acting barbiturate ( such as thiopental or thiamylal ) or a benzodiazepine ( such as diazepam ) may be administered intravenously .
The clinician should be familiar , prior to use of local anesthetics , with these anticonvulsant drugs .
Supportive treatment of circulatory depression may require administration of intravenous fluids and , when appropriate , a vasopressor as directed by the clinical situation ( e . g . , ephedrine ) .
If not treated immediately , both convulsions and cardiovascular depression can result in hypoxia , acidosis , bradycardia , arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
If cardiac arrest should occur , standard cardio - pulmonary resuscitative measures should be instituted .
Endotracheal intubation , employing drugs and techniques familiar to the clinician , may be indicated , after initial administration of oxygen by mask , if difficulty is encountered in the maintenance of a patent airway or if prolonged ventilatory support ( assisted or controlled ) is indicated .
Dialysis is of negligible value in the treatment of acute overdosage with lidocaine .
The intravenous LD50 of lidocaine HCl in female mice is 26 ( 21 - 31 ) mg / kg and the subcutaneous LD50 is 264 ( 203 - 304 ) mg / kg .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections , USP depends on the physical status of the patient , the area of the oral cavity to be anesthetized , the vascularity of the oral tissues , and the technique of anesthesia used .
The least volume of solution that results in effective local anesthesia should be administered ; time should be allowed between injections to observe the patient for manifestations of an adverse reaction .
For specific techniques and procedures of a local anesthesia in the oral cavity , refer to standard textbooks .
For most routine dental procedures , Lidocaine and Epinephrine 1 : 100 , 000 Injection is preferred .
However , when greater depth and a more pronounced hemostasis are required , a 1 : 50 , 000 Epinephrine concentration should be used .
Dosage requirements should be determined on an individual basis .
In oral infiltration and / or mandibular block , initial dosages of 1 . 0 - 5 . 0 mL ( ½ to 2 ½ cartridges ) of Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections are usually effective .
In children under 10 years of age , it is rarely necessary to administer more than one - half cartridge ( 0 . 9 - 1 . 0 mL or 18 - 20 mg of lidocaine ) per procedure to achieve local anesthesia for a procedure involving a single tooth .
In maxillary infiltration , this amount will often suffice to the treatment of two or even three teeth .
In the mandibular block , however , satisfactory anesthesia achieved with this amount of drug , will allow treatment of the teeth of an entire quadrant .
Aspiration is recommended since it reduces the possibility of intravascular injection , thereby keeping the incidence of side effects and anesthetic failures to a minimum .
Moreover , injection should always be made slowly .
Maximum recommended dosages for Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections .
Adult For normal healthy adults , the amount of lidocaine HCl administered should be kept below 500 mg , and in any case , should not exceed 7 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
Pediatric Pediatric patients : It is difficult to recommend a maximum dose of any drug for pediatric patients since this varies as a function of age and weight .
For pediatric patients of less than ten years who have a normal lean body mass and normal body development , the maximum dose may be determined by the application of one of the standard pediatric drug formulas ( e . g . , Clark ' s rule ) .
For example , in pediatric patients of five years weighing 50 Ibs , the dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 75 - 100 mg when calculated according to Clark ' s rule .
In any case , the maximum dose of lidocaine hydrochloride should not exceed 7 mg / kg ( 3 . 2 mg / lb ) of body weight .
NOTE : Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever the solution and container permit .
Solutions that are discolored and / or contain particulate matter should not be used and any unused portion of a cartridge of Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections should be discarded .
HOW SUPPLIED - Lidocaine Hydrochloride 2 % ( 34 mg / 1 . 7 mL ) ( 20 mg / mL ) and Epinephrine 1 : 50 , 000 injection is available in cardboard boxes containing 5 blisters of 10 x 1 . 7 mL single - dose cartridges .
- Lidocaine Hydrochloride 2 % ( 34 mg / 1 . 7 mL ) ( 20 mg / mL ) and Epinephrine 1 : 100 , 000 injection is available in cardboard boxes containing 5 blisters of 10 x 1 . 7 mL single - dose cartridges .
Store at controlled room temperature , below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Do not permit to freeze .
BOXES : For protection from light , retain in box until time of use .
Once opened , the box should be reclosed by closing the end flap .
Do not use if color is pinkish or darker than slightly yellow or if it contains a precipitate .
STERILIZATION : STORAGE AND TECHNICAL PROCEDURES • Cartridges should not be autoclaved , because the closures employed cannot withstand autoclaving temperatures and pressures .
• If chemical disinfection of anesthetic cartridges is desired , either isopropyl alcohol ( 91 % ) or 70 % ethyl alcohol is recommended .
Many commercially available brands of rubbing alcohol , as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol not of U . S . P grade , contain denaturants that are injurious to rubber and , therefore , are not to be used .
It is recommended that chemical disinfection be accomplished just prior to use by wiping the cartridge cap thoroughly with a pledge of cotton that has been moistened with recommended alcohol .
• Certain metallic ions ( mercury , zinc , copper , etc . ) have been related to swelling and edema after local anesthesia in dentistry .
Therefore , chemical disinfectants containing or releasing these ions are not recommended .
Antirust tablets usually contain sodium nitrite or some similar agents that may be capable of releasing metal ions .
Because of this , aluminium sealed cartridges should not be kept in such solutions .
• Quaternary ammonium salts , such as benzalkonium chloride , are electrolytically incompatible with aluminium .
Cartridges of Lidocaine and Epinephrine Injections are sealed with aluminium caps and therefore should not be immersed in any solution containing these salts .
• To avoid leakage of solutions during injection , be sure to penetrate the center of the rubber diaphragm when loading the syringe .
An off - center penetration produces an oval shaped puncture that allows leakage around the needle .
Other causes of leakage and breakage include badly worn syringes , aspirating syringes with bent harpoons , the use of syringes not designed to take 1 . 7 mL cartridges , and inadvertent freezing .
• Cracking of glass cartridges is most often the result of an attempt to use a cartridge with an extruded plunger .
An extruded plunger loses its lubrication and can be forced back into the cartridge only with difficulty .
Cartridges with extruded plungers should be discarded .
• Store at controlled room temperature , below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Manufactured by : Novocol Pharmaceutical of Canada , Inc .
25 Wolseley Court , Cambridge ON N1R 6X3 Made in Canada Rev . 07 / 2021 ( 2103 - 4 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 7 mL Cartridge Carton Advance NDC 71347 - 210 - 50 Lidocaine HCl 2 % ( 34 mg / 1 . 7 mL ) ( 20 mg / mL ) Lidocaine Hydrochloride 2 % ( 34 mg / 1 . 7 mL ) ( 20 mg / mL ) and Epinephrine 1 : 100 , 000 ( Lidocaine Hydrochloride and Epinephrine injection , USP ) 50 / Single - Dose Cartridges Store below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) 1 . 7 mL each DO NOT PERMIT TO FREEZE FOR DENTAL BLOCK AND INFILTRATION ANESTHESIA Advancing the Quality of Dental Care Products [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
