Drug Facts : Ethyl alcohol ----------------------------- 70 % v / v .
Porpuse ANTIMICROBIAL Use : Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not - available .
Warnings : Flammable Keep away from fire or flame .
For external use only When using this product - do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
DO NOT INGEST OR INHALE .
In the case of ingestion or inhalation , call poison control Center DO NOT USE : - In children less than 2 months of age .
- On open skin wounds Stop use and ask a doctor - if irritation or rash occurs , appears and last .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Dispense enough product into your palm to adequately cover your hands .
Rub hands together vigorously until dry .
Children under the age of 6 should be supervised when using this product ..
Other Information : Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive Ingridients : Water , Carboxymethyl cellulose , T - butyl alcohol , Denatonium benzoate Package . Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Facts Ethyl alcohol ----------------- 70 % v / v .
Purpose : ANTIMICROBIAL Indications : Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not - available .
Warnings : Flammable Keep away from fire or flame . For external use only When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
DO NOT INGEST OR INHALE .
In the case of ingestion or inhalation , call poison control .
DO NOT USE : - In children less than 2 months of age - On open skin wounds When using this product : keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions : Dispense enough product into your palm to adequately cover your hands .
Rub hands together vigorously until dry .
Children under the age of 6 should be supervised when using this product .
.
Other Information : Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive Ingridients : Water , Carboxymethyl cellulose , T - butyl alcohol , Denatonium benzoate Distributed by : Econ Trading LLC , Newark , NJ 1892 . 71 ml 64 FL OZ lot # 042020 - 1 Exp 04 / 2023 1892 . 71 ml 64 FL OZ NDC : 79339 - 001 - 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
