DESCRIPTION Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is the prototype for the benzodiazepine compounds .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is 7 - chloro - 2 - ( methylamino ) - 5 - phenyl - 3 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepine 4 - oxide hydrochloride .
A white to practically white crystalline substance , it is soluble in water .
It is unstable in solution and the powder must be protected from light .
The molecular weight is 336 . 22 .
The structural formula of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule , for oral administration , contains 5 mg , 10 mg or 25 mg of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : D & C red # 28 ( 10 mg only ) , D & C yellow # 10 , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C red # 40 ( 10 mg only ) , FD & C yellow # 6 ( 10 mg only ) , gelatin , hydrogenated vegetable oil , lactose anhydrous , methylparaben , microcrystalline cellulose , propylparaben , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
ACTIONS Chlordiazepoxide HCI has antianxiety , sedative , appetite - stimulating and weak analgesic actions .
The precise mechanism of action is not known .
The drug blocks EEG arousal from stimulation of the brain stem reticular formation .
It takes several hours for peak blood levels to be reached and the half - life of the drug is between 24 and 48 hours .
After the drug is discontinued plasma levels decline slowly over a period of several days .
Chlordiazepoxide is excreted in the urine , with 1 to 2 % unchanged and 3 to 6 % as a conjugate .
Animal Pharmacology : The drug has been studied extensively in many species of animals and these studies are suggestive of action on the limbic system of the brain , which recent evidence indicates is involved in emotional responses .
Hostile monkeys were made tame by oral drug doses which did not cause sedation .
Chlordiazepoxide revealed a " taming " action with the elimination of fear and aggression .
The taming effect of chlordiazepoxide was further demonstrated in rats made vicious by lesions in the septal area of the brain .
The drug dosage which effectively blocked the vicious reaction was well below the dose which caused sedation in these animals .
The LD50 of parenterally administered chlordiazepoxide HCl was determined in mice ( 72 hours ) and rats ( 5 days ) , and calculated according to the method of Miller and Tainter , with the following results : mice , I . V . , 123 ± 12 mg / kg ; mice , I . M . , 366 ± 7 mg / kg ; rats , I . V . , 120 ± 7 mg / kg ; rats , l . M . , > 160 mg / kg .
Effects On Reproduction : Reproduction studies in rats fed 10 , 20 , and 80 mg / kg daily and bred through one or two matings showed no congenital anomalies , nor were there adverse effects on lactation of the dams or growth of the newborn .
However , in another study at 100 mg / kg daily there was noted a significant decrease in the fertilization rate and a marked decrease in the viability and body weight of offspring which may be attributable to sedation activity , thus resulting in lack of interest in mating and lessened maternal nursing and care of the young .
One neonate in each of the first and second matings in the rat reproduction study at the 100 mg / kg dose exhibited major skeletal defects .
Further studies are in progress to determine the significance of these findings .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlordiazepoxide HCI Capsules are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of symptoms of anxiety , withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism , and preoperative apprehension and anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
The effectiveness of chlordiazepoxide in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Chlordiazepoxide HCI Capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Chlordiazepoxide may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a vehicle or operating machinery .
Similarly , it may impair mental alertness in children .
The concomitant use of alcohol or other central nervous system depressants may have an additive effect .
PATIENTS SHOULD BE WARNED ACCORDINGLY .
Usage In Pregnancy : An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
PRECAUTIONS In elderly or debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 10 mg or less per day initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
In general , the concomitant administration of chlordiazepoxide HCI and other psychotropic agents is not recommended .
If such combination therapy seems indicated , careful consideration should be given to pharmacology of the agents to be employed - particularly when the known potentiating compounds such as the MAO inhibitors and phenothiazines are to be used .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
Paradoxical reactions , e . g . , excitement , stimulation and acute rage , have been reported in psychiatric patients and in hyperactive aggressive children , and should be watched for during chlordiazepoxide therapy .
The usual precautions are indicated when chlordiazepoxide HCI capsules are used in the treatment of anxiety states where there is any evidence of impending depression ; it should be borne in mind that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
Although clinical studies have not established a cause and effect relationship , physicians should be aware that variable effects on blood coagulation have been reported very rarely in patients receiving oral anticoagulants and chlordiazepoxide .
In view of isolated reports associating chlordiazepoxide with exacerbation of porphyria , caution should be exercised in prescribing chlordiazepoxide to patients suffering from this disease .
Information for patients To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing the drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare .
Drowsiness , ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients - particularly the elderly and debilitated .
While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment , they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges .
In few instances syncope has been reported .
Other adverse reactions reported during therapy include isolated instances of skin eruptions , edema , minor menstrual irregularities , nausea and constipation , extrapyramidal symptoms , as well as increased and decreased libido .
Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage .
Changes in EEG patterns ( low - voltage fast activity ) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide treatment .
Blood dyscrasias ( including agranulocytosis ) , jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy .
When chlordiazepoxide treatment is protracted , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Chlordiazepoxide HCI Capsules are classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of chlordiazepoxide .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving chlordiazepoxide or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of the wide range of clinical indications for chlordiazepoxide , the optimum dosage varies with the diagnosis and response of the individual patient .
The dosage , therefore , should be individualized for maximum beneficial effects .
ADULTS Usual Daily Dose Relief of mild and moderate anxiety disorders and symptoms of anxiety 5 mg or 10 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Relief of severe anxiety disorders and symptoms of anxiety 20 mg or 25 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Geriatric patients , or in the presence of debilitating disease 5 mg , 2 or 4 times daily Preoperative apprehension and anxiety : On days preceding surgery , 5 to 10 mg orally , 3 or 4 times daily .
If used as preoperative medication , 50 to 100 mg IM * one hour prior to surgery .
CHILDREN Usual Daily Dose Because of the varied response of children to CNS - acting drugs , therapy should be initiated with the lowest dose and increased as required .
Since clinical experience in children under 6 years of age is limited , the use of the drug in this age group is not recommended .
5 mg , 2 or 4 times daily ( may be increased in some children to 10 mg , 2 or 3 times daily ) For the relief of withdrawal symptoms of acute alcoholism , the parenteral form * is usually used initially .
If the drug is administered orally , the suggested initial oral dose is 50 to 100 mg , to be followed by repeated doses as needed until agitation is controlled - up to 300 mg per day .
Dosage should then be reduced to maintenance levels .
* See package insert for Sterile Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride .
Management of Overdosage : Manifestations of chlordiazepoxide overdosage includes somnolence , confusion , coma and diminished reflexes .
Respiration , pulse and blood pressure should be monitored , as in all cases of drug overdosage , although , in general , these effects have been minimal following chlordiazepoxide overdosage .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with immediate gastric lavage .
Intravenous fluids should be administered and an adequate airway maintained .
Hypotension may be combated by the use of norepinephrine or metaraminol .
Dialysis is of limited value .
There have been occasional reports of excitation in patients following chlordiazepoxide overdosage ; if this occurs barbiturates should not be used .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation , and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for re - sedation , respiratory depression , and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
The complete flumazenil package insert including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS should be consulted prior to use .
HOW SUPPLIED Chlordiazepoxide Hydrochloride Capsules USP are supplied as follows : 5 mg : Green opaque / yellow opaque capsules , imprinted WATSON and 785 on cap and 5 mg on body , in bottles of 100 and 500 .
10 mg : Black opaque / green opaque capsules , imprinted WATSON and 786 on cap and 10 mg on body , in bottles of 100 and 500 .
25 mg : Green opaque / white opaque capsules , imprinted WATSON and 787 on cap and 25 mg on body , in bottles of 100 and 500 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in USP / NF .
Manufactured for : Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA Manufactured by : Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Cincinnati , OH 45215 USA Rev . 10 / 03 70010564 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
