This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Recommended for repeated use Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • in case of eye contact , immediately flush eyes with water , call a doctor • avoid contact with broken skin Discontinue use if irrittion or redness develops .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
Children should only use this product under adult supervision Do not drink .
Not edible .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to thoroughly spread on both hands and rub into the skin until dry .
Recommended for repeated use Other information • Do not store above 105 F • May discolor some fabrics .
• Harmful to wood finishes and plastics Inactive ingredients aloe bardensis leaf extract , caprylyl glycol carbomer , glycerin , isopropyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , hydrochloric acid , sodium chloride Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
