1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE RELYVRIO is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) in adults .
RELYVRIO is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is 1 packet ( 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol ) administered orally or via feeding tube as follows : ( 2 . 1 ) • Initial dosage : 1 packet daily for the first 3 weeks ( 2 . 1 ) • maintenance dosage : 1 packet twice daily thereafter ( 2 . 1 ) • Empty contents of one packet in a cup containing 8 ounces of room temperature water and stir vigorously prior to administration .
( 2 . 2 ) • Take within 1 hour of preparation .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer RELYVRIO before a snack or meal .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended initial dosage of RELYVRIO for oral suspension is 1 packet ( 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol ) daily for the first 3 weeks .
After 3 weeks , increase to the maintenance dosage of 1 packet twice daily .
2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Information Empty contents of one packet in a cup containing 8 ounces of room temperature water and stir vigorously .
Take orally or administer via feeding tube within 1 hour of preparation .
The reconstituted suspension may be stored for up to 1 hour at room temperature .
Discard any unused RELYVRIO reconstituted suspension after 1 hour .
Administer RELYVRIO before a snack or meal .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral suspension : white to yellow powder provided in single - dose packets each containing 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol .
For oral suspension : 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol in single - dose packets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk in Patients with Enterohepatic Circulation Disorders , Pancreatic Disorders , or Intestinal Disorders : In patients with disorders that interfere with bile acid circulation , consider consulting with a specialist .
Monitor for new or worsening diarrhea in these patients .
These conditions may also lead to decreased absorption of either of the components of RELYVRIO .
( 5 . 1 ) • Use in Patients Sensitive to High Sodium Intake : RELYVRIO has a high sodium content .
In patients sensitive to salt intake , consider the amount of daily sodium intake in each dose of RELYVRIO and monitor appropriately .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Risk in Patients with Enterohepatic Circulation Disorders , Pancreatic Disorders , or Intestinal Disorders RELYVRIO contains taurursodiol , which is a bile acid .
In patients with disorders that interfere with bile acid circulation , there may be an increased risk for worsening diarrhea , and patients should be monitored appropriately for this adverse reaction .
Pancreatic insufficiency , intestinal malabsorption , or intestinal diseases that may alter the concentration of bile acids , may also lead to decreased absorption of either of the components of RELYVRIO .
Because different enterohepatic circulation , pancreatic , and intestinal disorders have varying degrees of severity , consider consulting with a specialist .
Patients with disorders of enterohepatic circulation ( e . g . , biliary infection , active cholecystitis , etc . ) , severe pancreatic disorders ( e . g . , pancreatitis ) , and intestinal disorders that may alter concentrations of bile acids ( e . g . , ileal resection , regional ileitis , etc . ) were excluded from the study , therefore there is no clinical experience in these conditions .
5 . 2 Use in Patients Sensitive to High Sodium Intake RELYVRIO has a high salt content .
Each initial daily dosage of one packet contains 464 mg of sodium ; each maintenance dosage of two packets daily contains 928 mg of sodium .
In patients sensitive to salt intake ( e . g . , those with heart failure , hypertension , or renal impairment ) , consider the amount of daily sodium intake in each dose of RELYVRIO and monitor appropriately .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Risk in Patients with Enterohepatic Circulation Disorders , Pancreatic Disorders , or Intestinal Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Use in Patients Sensitive to High Sodium Intake [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( at least 15 % and at least 5 % greater than placebo ) are diarrhea , abdominal pain , nausea , and upper respiratory tract infection .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 877 - 374 - 1208 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of RELYVRIO was evaluated in Study 1 which enrolled 137 adult patients with ALS randomized ( 2 : 1 ) to RELYVRIO ( n = 89 ) or placebo ( n = 48 ) for 24 weeks .
In Study 1 , there were 5 ( 6 % ) RELYVRIO - treated patients and 2 ( 4 % ) placebo patients who died during the 24 - week study .
The deaths appeared to be related to ALS disease progression .
The most common adverse reactions ( at least 15 % and at least 5 % greater than placebo ) with RELYVRIO were diarrhea , abdominal pain , nausea , and upper respiratory tract infection .
Gastrointestinal - related adverse reactions occurred throughout the study but were more frequent during the first 3 weeks of treatment .
Table 1 lists the common adverse reactions that occurred in more than 5 % of patients taking RELYVRIO and were at least 5 % greater than in patients taking placebo in Study 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in More than 5 % of RELYVRIO - Treated Patients with ALS and at least 5 % Greater than Placebo ( Study 1 ) Adverse Reaction RELYVRIO ( N = 89 ) % Placebo ( N = 48 ) % Diarrhea * 25 19 Abdominal pain * 21 13 Nausea 18 13 Upper respiratory tract infection * 18 10 Fatigue * 12 6 Salivary hypersecretion 11 2 Dizziness 10 4 * Adverse reaction is composed of several similar terms .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See Full Prescribing Information for complete list of clinically significant drug interactions .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect RELYVRIO Bile Acid Sequestering Agents Bile acid sequestering agents ( e . g . , cholestyramine , colestipol , colesevelam ) may interfere with the absorption of bile acids such as taurursodiol .
Avoid use of bile acid sequestering agents with RELYVRIO and consider alternative cholesterol lowering agents .
Inhibitors of Bile Acid Transporters Concomitant medications that inhibit canalicular membrane bile acid transporters such as the bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) may exacerbate accumulation of conjugated bile salts in the liver and result in clinical symptoms .
Avoid use of strong inhibitors of BSEP with RELYVRIO .
If concomitant use of a strong inhibitor of BSEP ( e . g . , cyclosporine ) is deemed necessary , caution should be exercised and monitoring of serum transaminases and bilirubin is recommended .
Aluminum - based Antacids Aluminum - based antacids have been shown to adsorb bile acids in vitro and may interfere with the absorption of taurursodiol .
Avoid use of aluminum - based antacids with RELYVRIO and consider other acid lowering agents .
Probenicid Avoid use of probenecid with RELYVRIO as it may affect renal excretion of sodium phenylbutyrate metabolites .
HDAC Inhibitors Phenylbutyrate is a pan - histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor .
Avoid use of other HDAC inhibitors with RELYVRIO .
Inhibitors of Transports OATP1B3 In vitro studies showed that RELYVRIO is a substrate of OATP1B3 .
Avoid use of inhibitors of OATP1B3 with RELYVRIO .
7 . 2 Potential for RELYVRIO to Affect Other Drugs OAT1 Substrates Plasma concentrations of OAT1 substrates may be increased if given concomitantly with RELYVRIO .
Avoid use of OAT1 substrates for which a small change in substrate plasma concentration may lead to serious toxicities or loss of efficacy with RELYVRIO .
P - glycoprotein ( P - gP ) and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein ( BCRP ) Substrates RELYVRIO has been shown to inhibit P - gP and BCRP in vitro .
Plasma concentrations of P - gP and BCRP substrates may be increased if given concomitantly with RELYVRIO .
Avoid the concomitant use of P - gP and BCRP substrates for which a small change in substrate plasma concentration may lead to serious toxicities or loss of efficacy with RELYVRIO .
Drugs that are substrates of CYP2C8 , CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4isoenzymes RELYVRIO inhibits CYP2C8 and CYP2B6 isoenzymes in vitro .
RELYVRIO induces CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4 in vitro .
Plasma concentrations of substrates for these enzymes may be changed if given concomitantly with RELYVRIO .
Avoid use of drugs that are substrates of these CYP P450 isoenzymes in which a small change in substrate plasma concentration may lead to serious toxicities or loss of efficacy .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm .
( 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on RELYVRIO use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal studies , administration of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in increased offspring mortality at all doses tested , which were less than or similar to the clinical doses .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ( 0 , 375 , 750 , or 1500 mg / kg / day , containing sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol in a 3 : 1 ratio ) to pregnant mice during the period of organogenesis was not associated with any adverse effects .
At the highest dose of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol tested , the doses of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol were similar to the maximum recommended dose ( 6 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 2 g taurursodiol ) in humans ( MRHDs ) , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
Oral administration of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ( 0 , 375 , 750 , or 1500 mg / kg / day ) to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis was not associated with any adverse effects .
At the highest dose of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol tested , the doses of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol were approximately 2 - fold the MRHDs , based on mg / m2 .
Oral administration of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ( 0 , 375 , 750 , or 1500 mg / kg / day ) to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation resulted in increases in stillbirth at all doses and pup deaths at the highest dose tested .
A no effect dose for adverse developmental effects in rats was not identified .
At the lowest dose of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol tested , the doses of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol were less than the MRHDs , based on mg / m2 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of sodium phenylbutyrate or taurursodiol in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for RELYVRIO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from RELYVRIO or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of RELYVRIO in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 89 patients with ALS who received RELYVRIO in Study 1 , 25 patients ( 28 % ) were 65 years of age or older , while 4 patients ( 4 . 5 % ) were 75 years of age and older with the oldest patient being 79 years old .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between those patients 65 years of age and older and those < 65 years of age .
Although differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients were not identified , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild renal impairment .
Avoid use in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild hepatic impairment .
Avoid use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION RELYVRIO contains two active ingredients : sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol .
The chemical designation for phenylbutyrate is 4 - phenyl butyric acid sodium salt .
Its molecular formula is C10H11NaO2 , and its molecular weight is 186 . 2 .
The sodium phenylbutyrate chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium phenylbutyrate is a white or yellow powder which decomposes at about 220 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water and methanol ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; and practically insoluble in methylene chloride , acetone , and diethyl ether .
Taurursodiol , also known as tauroursdeoxycholic acid , is an ambiphilic bile acid and is the taurine conjugate of ursodiol , also known as ursodeoxycholic acid .
The chemical name of taurursodiol is 2 - [ ( 3α , 7β - dihydroxy - 24 - oxo - 5β - cholan - 24 - yl ) amino ] ethane sulfonic acid , dihydrate .
The molecular formula is C26H45NO6S .
2H2O and the molecular weight is 535 . 74 ( dihydrate ) .
The taurursodiol chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Taurursodiol is a white microcrystalline powder , practically odorless , with a bitter taste .
It is freely soluble in ethyl alcohol , very slightly soluble in acetone and dioxane , sparingly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in ether and ethyl acetate .
RELYVRIO is a white to yellow powder for oral suspension that consists of fine to large granules .
RELYVRIO is supplied in a packet containing 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate ( equivalent to 2630 mg phenylbutyrate ) and 1 g taurursodiol .
Each packet contains 464 mg of sodium and also contains the following inactive ingredients : acacia , dextrates , dibasic sodium phosphate , maltodextrin , medium - chain triglycerides , mixed berry flavoring , other flavoring ingredients , silicon dioxide , sodium stearyl fumarate , sorbitol , and sucralose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which RELYVRIO exerts its therapeutic effects in patients with ALS is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At the maximum recommended dose , RELYVRIO does not cause large mean increases ( > 20 ms ) in the QT interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of a single dose of RELYVRIO in healthy subjects under fasting conditions , sodium phenylbutyrate reaches a median Tmax of 0 . 5 hour .
Taurursodiol reaches a median Tmax of 4 . 5 hours .
Effect of Food Administration of RELYVRIO in the presence of a high - fat meal resulted in both significantly slower absorption ( Cmax reduced by 76 % ) and lower overall exposure ( AUC reduced by 54 % ) of sodium phenylbutyrate .
A high - fat meal did not significantly affect the Cmax for taurursodiol , but AUC was increased by 39 % [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Distribution Human plasma protein binding for sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol is 82 % and 98 % , respectively .
Elimination Metabolism No mass balance studies of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol have been conducted in humans to confirm the metabolic pathways and elimination routes .
Phenylacetate was found to be a major metabolite of phenylbutyrate .
Ursodiol and glyco - ursodiol were found as major metabolites of taurursodiol .
Excretion The majority of administered sodium phenylbutyrate ( ~ 80 - 100 % ) is excreted in the urine within 24 hours as the conjugated product , phenylacetylglutamine .
Specific Populations The effect of age , gender , racial , or ethnic groups on the pharmacokinetics of RELYVRIO is unknown .
Patients with Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of RELYVRIO has not been studied .
There were no reports of safety issues with patients with mild renal impairment who were enrolled in Study 1 .
However , there is no clinical experience for subjects with moderate and severe renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of RELYVRIO has not been studied .
There were no reports of safety issues with patients with mild hepatic impairment ( using National Cancer Institute Classification system ) who were enrolled in Study 1 .
However , there is no clinical experience for subjects with moderate and severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 ) ] No clinical interaction studies between RELYVRIO and other medicinal products have been performed .
In vitro studies showed that the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol : • induces CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , and CYP3A4 at clinically relevant concentrations • inhibits CYP2C8 and CYP2B6 at clinically relevant concentrations .
• inhibits OAT1 , P - gP , and BCRP at clinically relevant concentrations • is a substrate of OATP1B3 , MATE2 - K , OAT3 , and BSEP 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Studies to assess the carcinogenic potential of RELYVRIO have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis The combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ( 3 : 1 ratio of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ) was negative in in vitro ( bacterial reverse mutation and mammalian cell chromosomal aberration ) and in vivo ( mouse micronucleus ) assays .
Impairment of Fertility Oral administration of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ( 0 , 375 , 750 , or 1500 mg / kg / day ) prior to and throughout mating in male and female rats and continuing to gestation day 7 in females resulted in no adverse effects on fertility .
At the highest dose of the combination of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol tested , doses of sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol were approximately 2 times the maximum recommended doses ( 6 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 2 g taurursodiol ) in humans , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Efficacy The efficacy of RELYVRIO for the treatment of ALS was demonstrated in a 24 - week , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel - group study that evaluated RELYVRIO in adult patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) ( Study 1 ; NCT03127514 ) .
For inclusion in the study , patients had to have a definite diagnosis of sporadic or familial ALS as defined by the revised El Escorial criteria , with symptom onset within the past 18 months , and a slow vital capacity ( SVC ) greater than 60 % of predicted at screening .
A total of 137 patients were randomized 2 : 1 to receive either RELYVRIO ( n = 89 ) or placebo ( n = 48 ) for 24 weeks ( Intent - to - Treat [ ITT ] population ) .
Baseline disease characteristics were generally comparable between the two treatment groups ; 95 % were Caucasian , the median age was 57 . 7 years , and 68 % were males .
Thirty percent of patients in the RELYVRIO treatment group had bulbar disease onset vs . 21 % in the placebo group .
On average , patients had been diagnosed with ALS six months prior to baseline with a time since onset of first symptom of approximately 13 . 5 months .
At or prior to study entry , 71 % of patients were taking riluzole and 34 % were taking edaravone .
The average ( standard deviation ) baseline ALS Functional Rating Scale - Revised ( ALSFRS - R ) total score was 35 . 7 ( 5 . 8 ) in the RELYVRIO treatment group and 36 . 7 ( 5 . 1 ) in the placebo group .
Patients were administered the contents of one packet of RELYVRIO or placebo , once daily for the first 3 weeks .
After 3 weeks of treatment , the dose was increased to one packet twice daily if tolerated .
The prespecified primary efficacy endpoint was a comparison of the rate of reduction in the ALSFRS - R total scores from baseline to Week 24 in the mITT population .
The ALSFRS - R scale consists of 12 questions that evaluate the fine motor , gross motor , bulbar , and respiratory function of patients with ALS ( speech , salivation , swallowing , handwriting , cutting food , dressing / hygiene , turning in bed , walking , climbing stairs , dyspnea , orthopnea , and respiratory insufficiency ) .
Each item is scored from 0 - 4 , with higher scores representing greater functional ability .
There was a statistically significant difference in the rate of reduction in the ALSFRS - R total score from baseline to Week 24 in RELYVRIO - treated patients compared to placebo - treated patients ( p = 0 . 034 ) ( see Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : ALSFRS - R Total Score in Patients with ALS at Week 24 — Shared Baseline Mixed Effects Statistical Analysis ( Primary , Prespecified Analysis ) in Study 1 Treatment LS Mean ( SE ) ALSFRS - R Total Score at Week 24 Treatment Difference ( SE ) ( RELYVRIO - placebo [ 95 % CI ] ) p - value RELYVRIO ( n = 87 ) 29 . 06 ( 0 . 781 ) 2 . 32 points ( 1 . 094 ) [ 95 % CI : 0 . 18 , 4 . 47 ] 0 . 034 Placebo ( n = 48 ) 26 . 73 ( 0 . 975 ) In a post hoc , long - term survival analysis , vital status was ascertained in 136 of 137 patients who were enrolled in Study 1 .
Longer median overall survival was observed in the patients originally randomized to RELYVRIO compared to those originally randomized to placebo .
This exploratory analysis should be interpreted cautiously given the limitations of data collected outside of a controlled study , which may be subject to confounding .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied RELYVRIO for oral suspension is supplied in single - dose packets of white to yellow powder containing 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol as follows : • Carton of 7 single - dose packets ( NDC 73063 - 035 - 04 ) • Carton of 56 single - dose packets ( Carton NDC 73063 - 035 - 03 ) , contained in 4 boxes with 14 single - dose packets per box 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) for storage of RELYVRIO reconstituted suspension .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Administration Instruct patients or caregivers to empty the contents of one packet in a cup containing 8 ounces of room temperature water and stir vigorously .
Advise them that RELYVRIO can be taken orally or administered via feeding tube , and to use or discard within 1 hour of preparation .
Instruct to administer RELYVRIO before a snack or meal [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Enterohepatic Circulation , Pancreatic and Intestinal Disorders Inform patients about the risks and benefits with the use of RELYVRIO if they have underlying medical conditions such as enterohepatic circulation , pancreatic , or intestinal disorders and advise them to notify their healthcare provider if they have new or worsening diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Sodium Intake Inform patients that 2 packets of RELYVRIO contain 928 mg sodium ( 46 % of WHO daily recommended intake ) and patients who are sensitive to sodium ( e . g . , those with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , or other conditions associated with sodium retention ) should limit their sodium intake [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Aluminum - based Antacids Inform patients that aluminum - based antacids may interfere with the absorption of RELYVRIO , and therefore should not be taken during treatment with RELYVRIO [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Pregnancy and Breastfeeding Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant during RELYVRIO therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they intend to breastfeed or are breastfeeding an infant [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for and Distributed by : Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , 43 Thorndike Street , Cambridge , MA 02141 © 2022 Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All Rights Reserved .
AMYLYX ® and RELYVRIO ™ are trademarks of Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
PATIENT INFORMATION RELYVRIO ( Re - LIV - rio ) ( sodium phenylbutyrate and taurursodiol ) for oral suspension What is RELYVRIO ?
• RELYVRIO is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) .
• It is not known if RELYVRIO is safe and effective in children .
Before taking RELYVRIO , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have pancreas , liver , or intestinal problems .
• have heart failure , including congestive heart failure .
• have high blood pressure .
• have kidney problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if RELYVRIO will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if RELYVRIO passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide the best way to feed your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements , and any taurursodiol products , such as tauroursodeoxycholic acid ( TUDCA ) .
RELYVRIO may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how RELYVRIO works .
How should I take RELYVRIO ?
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much RELYVRIO to take and when to take it .
• Empty 1 packet of RELYVRIO in a cup ( 8 ounces ) of room temperature water and stir well .
• RELYVRIO can be taken by mouth or through a feeding tube within 1 hour of preparing .
Throw away ( discard ) any unused RELYVRIO after 1 hour .
• RELYVRIO should be taken before a snack or meal .
• Avoid taking antacids that contain aluminum while you are receiving treatment with RELYVRIO .
If you need an antacid , talk to your healthcare provider about the best one for you to take .
What are the possible side effects of RELYVRIO ?
RELYVRIO may cause serious side effects , including : • Changes in bile acid levels .
RELYVRIO may increase bile acid levels and cause worsening diarrhea if you already have problems with your liver , bile ducts , or pancreas .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you for these side effects .
Some disorders of the pancreas , bile ducts , or intestines may also make it harder to absorb RELYVRIO .
• Salt ( sodium ) retention .
RELYVRIO contains a high amount of salt .
For people who are sensitive to salt intake , such as people with heart failure , high blood pressure , or kidney problems , limit the amount of salt you eat and drink .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the total amount of daily salt that is right for you .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you for signs and symptoms of salt retention during your treatment with RELYVRIO .
The most common side effects of RELYVRIO include : • diarrhea • abdominal pain • nausea • upper respiratory tract infection Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of RELYVRIO .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store RELYVRIO ?
• Store RELYVRIO at room temperature between 68 ⁰ F to 77 ⁰ F ( 20 ⁰ C to 25 ⁰ C ) .
• Keep RELYVRIO packets away from moisture .
Keep RELYVRIO and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of RELYVRIO .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use RELYVRIO for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give RELYVRIO to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about RELYVRIO that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in RELYVRIO ?
Active ingredients : sodium phenylbutyrate , taurursodiol Inactive ingredients : acacia , dibasic sodium phosphate , maltodextrin , medium - chain triglycerides , mixed berry flavoring , other flavoring ingredients , silicon dioxide , sodium stearyl fumarate , sorbitol , and sucralose .
Marketed and distributed by : Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . , 43 Thorndike St . , Cambridge , MA 02141 For more information , go to AMYLYX . com or call 1 - 877 - 374 - 1208 .
© 2022 Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All Rights Reserved .
AMYLYX ® and RELYVRIO ™ are trademarks of Amylyx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 9 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL RELYVRIO 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol per packet NDC 73063 - 035 - 04 Carton of 7 single - dose packets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL RELYVRIO 3 g sodium phenylbutyrate and 1 g taurursodiol per packet NDC 73063 - 035 - 03 Carton of 56 single - dose packets , contained in 4 boxes with 14 single - dose packets per box [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
