This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol • Sterile distilled water .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire and flame Do not use • Do not use in or near eyes .
When using this product do not use in or ner eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub together briskly until dry .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product Other information • Store below 110 F ( 43 C ) .
• May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Deionized water , glycerin , polysorbate 20 , aloe barbadensis leaf juice , citrus aurantium dulcis peel oil , tocopheryl acetate , maltodextrin , parfum Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
