To reduce the development of drug resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of dicloxacillin sodium capsules and other antibacterial drugs , dicloxacillin sodium capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Dicloxacillin sodium , USP is a semisynthetic antibiotic substance which resists destruction by the enzyme penicillinase ( beta - lactamase ) .
It is monosodium ( 2 S , 5 R , 6 R ) - 6 - [ 3 - ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl ) - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolecarboxamido ] - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 0 ] heptane - 2 - carboxylate monohydrate .
Dicloxacillin is administered orally via capsule form or powder for reconstitution .
Structurally , dicloxacillin sodium , USP may be represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C19H16Cl2N3NaO5 S · H2O MW 510 . 32 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive Ingredients Capsules Magnesium Stearate .
Capsule Shell and Print Constituents D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 1 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Red # 40 Aluminum Lake , D & C Yellow # 10 , Gelatin , Shellac , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Sorbitan Monolaurate , Black Iron Oxide , Titanium Dioxide , Propylene Glycol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Mechanism of Action Penicillinase - resistant penicillins exert a bactericidal action against penicillin - susceptible microorganisms during the state of active multiplication .
All penicillins inhibit the biosynthesis of the bacterial cell wall .
Antibacterial Activity Dicloxacillin sodium has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Gram - positive Bacteria Staphylococcus spp .
Susceptibility Testing For specific information regarding susceptibility test interpretive criteria and associated test methods and quality control standards recognized by FDA for this drug , please see : https : / / www . fda . gov / STIC .
Pharmacokinetics Methicillin sodium is readily destroyed by gastric acidity and must be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection .
The isoxazolyl penicillins ( cloxacillin , dicloxacillin and oxacillin ) and nafcillin are more acid - resistant and may be administered orally .
Absorption of the isoxazolyl penicillins after oral administration is rapid but incomplete ; peak blood levels are achieved in 1 to 1 . 5 hours .
In one study , after ingestion of a single 500 mg oral dose , peak serum concentrations range from 5 to 7 micrograms / milliliter for oxacillin , from 7 . 5 to 14 . 4 mcg / mL for cloxacillin and from 10 to 17 mcg / mL for dicloxacillin .
Oral absorption of cloxacillin , dicloxacillin , oxacillin and nafcillin is delayed when the drugs are administered after meals .
Once absorbed , the penicillinase - resistant penicillins bind to serum protein , mainly albumin .
The degree of protein binding reported varies with the method of study and the investigator ( see TABLE II ) .
TABLE II PENICILLINASE - RESISTANT PENICILLINS PERCENT PROTEIN BINDING ± SD Methicillin 37 . 3 ± 7 . 9 Nafcillin 89 . 9 ± 1 . 5 Oxacillin 94 . 2 ± 2 . 1 Cloxacillin 95 . 2 ± 0 . 5 Dicloxacillin 97 . 9 ± 0 . 6 The penicillinase - resistant penicillins vary in the extent to which they are distributed in the body fluids .
With normal doses , insignificant concentrations are found in the cerebrospinal fluid and aqueous humor .
All the drugs in this class are found in therapeutic concentrations in the pleural , bile and amniotic fluids .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins are rapidly excreted , primarily as unchanged drug in the urine by glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
The elimination half - life for dicloxacillin is about 0 . 7 hour .
Nonrenal elimination includes hepatic inactivation and excretion in bile .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of dicloxacillin sodium capsules and other antibacterial drugs , dicloxacillin sodium capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Dicloxacillin is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by penicillinase - producing staphylococci which have demonstrated susceptibility to the drug .
Cultures and susceptibility tests should be performed initially to determine the causative organisms and their sensitivity to the drug ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY – Susceptibility Plate Testing ) .
Dicloxacillin may be used to initiate therapy in suspected cases of resistant staphylococcal infections prior to the availability of laboratory test results .
The penicillinase - resistant penicillins should not be used in infections caused by organisms susceptible to penicillin G .
If the susceptibility tests indicate that the infection is due to an organism other than a resistant staphylococcus , therapy should not be continued with a penicillinase - resistant penicillin .
CONTRAINDICATIONS A history of a hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reaction to any penicillin is a contraindication .
WARNINGS Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic shock with collapse ) reactions have occurred in patients receiving penicillin .
The incidence of anaphylactic shock in all penicillin - treated patients is between 0 . 015 % and 0 . 04 % .
Anaphylactic shock resulting in death has occurred in approximately 0 . 002 % of the patients treated .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following a parenteral administration , it has occurred in patients receiving oral penicillins .
When penicillin therapy is indicated , it should be initiated only after a comprehensive patient drug and allergy history has been obtained .
If an allergic reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued and the patient should receive supportive treatment , e . g . , artificial maintenance of ventilation , pressor amines , antihistamines and corticosteroids .
Individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity may also experience allergic reactions when treated with a cephalosporin .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing dicloxacillin sodium capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Dicloxacillin should generally not be administered to patients with a history of sensitivity to any penicillin .
Penicillin should be used with caution in individuals with histories of significant allergies and / or asthma .
Whenever allergic reactions occur , penicillin should be withdrawn unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition being treated is life - threatening and amenable only to penicillin therapy .
The oral route of administration should not be relied upon in patients with severe illness , or with nausea , vomiting , gastric dilatation , cardiospasm or intestinal hypermotility .
Occasionally , patients will not absorb therapeutic amounts of orally administered penicillin .
The use of antibiotics may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
If new infections due to bacteria or fungi occur , the drug should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken .
Information for the Patient Patients should be counselled that antibacterial drugs including dicloxacillin sodium capsules should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When dicloxacillin sodium capsules are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by dicloxacillin sodium capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Patients receiving penicillins should be given the following information and instructions by the physician : • Patients should be told that penicillin is an antibacterial agent which will work with the body ’ s natural defenses to control certain types of infections .
They should be told that the drug should not be taken if they have had an allergic reaction to any form of penicillin previously , and to inform the physician of any allergies or previous allergic reactions to any drugs they may have had ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Patients who have previously experienced an anaphylactic reaction to penicillin should be instructed to wear a medical identification tag or bracelet .
• Because most antibacterial drugs taken by mouth are best absorbed on an empty stomach , patients should be directed , unless circumstances warrant otherwise , to take penicillin one hour before meals or two hours after eating ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacokinetics ) .
• Patients should be told to take the entire course of therapy prescribed , even if fever and other symptoms have stopped ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
• If any of the following reactions occur , stop taking your prescription and notify the physician : shortness of breath , wheezing , skin rash , mouth irritation , black tongue , sore throat , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , fever , swollen joints or any unusual bleeding or bruising ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
• Do not take any additional medications without physician approval , including nonprescription drugs such as antacids , laxatives or vitamins .
• Discard any liquid forms of penicillin after seven days if stored at room temperature or after 14 days if refrigerated .
Laboratory Tests Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should be performed ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Microbiology ) .
In the treatment of suspected staphylococcal infections , therapy should be changed to another active agent if culture tests fail to demonstrate the presence of staphylococci .
Periodic assessment of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hematopoietic , should be made during prolonged therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Blood cultures , white blood cell and differential cell counts should be obtained prior to initiation of therapy and at least weekly during therapy with penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Periodic urinalysis , blood urea nitrogen and creatinine determinations should be performed during therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins and dosage alterations should be considered if these values become elevated .
If any impairment of renal function is suspected or known to exist , a reduction in the total dosage should be considered and blood levels monitored to avoid possible neurotoxic reactions ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
SGOT and SGPT values should be obtained periodically during therapy to monitor for possible liver function abnormalities .
Drug Interactions Tetracycline , a bacteriostatic antibiotic , may antagonize the bactericidal effect of penicillin and concurrent use of these drugs should be avoided .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been conducted with these drugs .
Studies on reproduction ( nafcillin ) in rats and rabbits reveal no fetal or maternal abnormalities before conception and continuously through weaning ( one generation ) .
Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in the mouse , rat and rabbit have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins .
Human experience with the penicillins during pregnancy has not shown any positive evidence of adverse effects on the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women showing conclusively that harmful effects of these drugs on the fetus can be excluded .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Penicillins are excreted in breast milk .
Caution should be exercised when penicillins are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Because of incompletely developed renal function in newborns , penicillinase - resistant penicillins ( especially methicillin ) may not be completely excreted , with abnormally high blood levels resulting .
Frequent monitoring of blood levels is advisable in this group , with dosage adjustments when necessary .
All newborns treated with penicillins should be monitored closely for clinical and laboratory evidence of toxic or adverse effects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Body as a Whole The reported incidence of allergic reactions to penicillin ranges from 0 . 7 % to 10 % ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sensitization is usually the result of treatment , but some individuals have had immediate reactions to penicillin when first treated .
In such cases , it is thought that the patients may have had prior exposure to the drug via trace amounts present in milk and vaccines .
Two types of allergic reactions to penicillin are noted clinically , immediate and delayed .
Immediate reactions usually occur within 20 minutes of administration and range in severity from urticaria and pruritus to angioneurotic edema , laryngospasm , bronchospasm , hypotension , vascular collapse and death .
Such immediate anaphylactic reactions are very rare ( see WARNINGS ) and usually occur after parenteral therapy , but have occurred in patients receiving oral therapy .
Another type of immediate reaction , an accelerated reaction , may occur between 20 minutes and 48 hours after administration and may include urticaria , pruritus and fever .
Although laryngeal edema , laryngospasm and hypotension occasionally occur , fatality is uncommon .
Delayed allergic reactions to penicillin therapy usually occur after 48 hours and sometimes as late as two to four weeks after initiation of therapy .
Manifestations of this type of reaction include serum sickness - like symptoms ( i . e . , fever , malaise , urticaria , myalgia , arthralgia , abdominal pain ) and various skin rashes .
Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , stomatitis , black or hairy tongue and other symptoms of gastrointestinal irritation may occur , especially during oral penicillin therapy .
Nervous System Reactions Neurotoxic reactions similar to those observed with penicillin G may occur with large intravenous doses of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins , especially with patients with renal insufficiency .
Urogenital Reactions Renal tubular damage and interstitial nephritis have been associated with the administration of methicillin sodium and , infrequently , with the administration of nafcillin and oxacillin .
Manifestations of this reaction may include rash , fever , eosinophilia , hematuria , proteinuria and renal insufficiency .
Methicillin - induced nephropathy does not appear to be dose - related and is generally reversible upon prompt discontinuation of therapy .
Metabolic Reactions Agranulocytosis , neutropenia and bone marrow depression have been associated with the use of methicillin sodium and nafcillin .
Hepatotoxicity , characterized by fever , nausea and vomiting associated with abnormal liver function tests , mainly elevated SGOT levels , has been associated with the use of oxacillin .
RECOMMENDED DOSAGES FOR DICLOXACILLIN IN MILD TO MODERATE AND SEVERE INFECTIONS DRUG ADULTS CHILDREN Mild to Moderate Severe Mild to Moderate Severe Dicloxacillin 125 mg every 250 mg every 12 . 5 mg / kg / day1 25 mg / kg / day1 6 hours 6 hours in equally in equally divided doses divided doses every 6 hours every 6 hours 1 .
Patients weighing less than 40 kg ( 88 lbs ) DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Bacteriologic studies to determine the causative organisms and their sensitivity to the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should always be performed .
Duration of therapy varies with the type and severity of infection as well as the overall condition of the patient , therefore it should be determined by the clinical and bacteriological response of the patient .
In severe staphylococcal infections , therapy with penicillinase - resistant penicillins should be continued for at least 14 days .
Therapy should be continued for at least 48 hours after the patient has become afebrile , asymptomatic and cultures are negative .
The treatment of endocarditis and osteomyelitis may require a longer term of therapy .
Concurrent administration of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins and probenecid increases and prolongs serum penicillin levels .
Probenecid decreases the apparent volume of distribution and slows the rate of excretion by competitively inhibiting renal tubular secretion of penicillin .
Penicillin - probenecid therapy is generally limited to those infections where very high serum levels of penicillin are necessary .
Oral preparations of the penicillinase - resistant penicillins should not be used as initial therapy in serious , life - threatening infections ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
Oral therapy with the penicillinase - resistant penicillins may be used to follow up the previous use of a parenteral agent as soon as the clinical condition warrants .
For intramuscular gluteal injections , care should be taken to avoid sciatic nerve injury .
With intravenous administration , particularly in elderly patients , care should be taken because of the possibility of thrombophlebitis .
NB : INFECTIONS CAUSED BY GROUP A BETA - HEMOLYTIC STREPTOCOCCI SHOULD BE TREATED FOR AT LEAST 10 DAYS TO HELP PREVENT THE OCCURRENCE OF ACUTE RHEUMATIC FEVER OR ACUTE GLOMERULONEPHRITIS .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 0116 NDC : 50090 - 0116 - 1 40 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0116 - 0 28 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0116 - 4 20 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE Product : 50090 - 0310 NDC : 50090 - 0310 - 0 28 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0310 - 1 40 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 0310 - 4 20 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE Dicloxacillin Sodium [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dicloxacillin Sodium [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
