1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ADMELOG is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with type 1 diabetes mellitus and adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
ADMELOG is a rapid - acting human insulin analog indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients 3 years and older with type 1 diabetes mellitus and adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See Full Prescribing Information for important administration instructions .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) • Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
( 2 . 2 ) • Subcutaneous injection ( 2 . 2 ) : • Administer ADMELOG by subcutaneous injection in the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks within 15 minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal .
• Rotate injection sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
• Continuous subcutaneous infusion ( Insulin Pump ) ( 2 . 2 ) : • Administer ADMELOG by continuous subcutaneous infusion using an insulin pump in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer .
• Rotate infusion sites to reduce risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
• Intravenous Infusion : Administer ADMELOG by intravenous infusion ONLY after dilution and under medical supervision .
( 2 . 2 ) • The dosage of ADMELOG must be individualized based on the route of administration and the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results and glycemic control goal .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions • Always check insulin labels before administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Inspect ADMELOG visually before use .
It should appear clear and colorless .
Do not use ADMELOG if particulate matter or coloration is seen .
• Use ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen with caution in patients with visual impairment who may rely on audible clicks to dial their dose .
• Do NOT mix ADMELOG with other insulins when administering using a continuous subcutaneous infusion pump .
2 . 2 Route of Administration Subcutaneous Injection • Administer the dose of ADMELOG within fifteen minutes before a meal or immediately after a meal .
• ADMELOG administered by subcutaneous injection should generally be used in regimens with intermediate or long - acting insulin .
• ADMELOG should be administered by subcutaneous injection in the abdominal wall , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks .
Rotate injection site within the same region ( abdomen , thigh , upper arm , or buttocks ) from one injection to the next to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• The ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen dials in 1 - unit increments .
Continuous Subcutaneous Infusion ( Insulin Pump ) • Administer ADMELOG by continuous subcutaneous infusion in a region recommended in the instructions from the pump manufacturer .
Rotate infusion sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy and localized cutaneous amyloidosis .
Do not inject into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• During changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen , increase the frequency of blood glucose monitoring [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Follow healthcare provider recommendations when setting basal and mealtime infusion rate .
• Do NOT dilute or mix ADMELOG when administering by continuous subcutaneous infusion .
• Change ADMELOG in the pump reservoir at least every 7 days .
• Change the infusion sets and the infusion set insertion site at least every 3 days .
• Do NOT expose ADMELOG in the pump reservoir to temperatures greater than 98 . 6 ° F ( 37 ° C ) .
• Use ADMELOG in accordance with the insulin infusion pump systems instructions for use .
See the insulin infusion pump system labeling to determine if ADMELOG can be used with the pump system .
Intravenous Administration • Dilute ADMELOG to concentrations from 0 . 1 unit / mL to 1 unit / mL using 0 . 9 % sodium chloride .
• Administer ADMELOG intravenously ONLY under medical supervision with close monitoring of blood glucose and potassium levels to avoid hypoglycemia and hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage Information • Individualize and adjust the dosage of ADMELOG based on route of administration , the individual ' s metabolic needs , blood glucose monitoring results , and glycemic control goal .
• Dosage adjustments may be needed with changes in physical activity , changes in meal patterns ( i . e . , macronutrient content or timing of food intake ) , changes in renal or hepatic function , or during acute illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
• If changing patients from another insulin lispro product to ADMELOG , the dose of ADMELOG should be the same as the other insulin lispro product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 4 Dosage Adjustment Due to Drug Interactions • Dosage adjustment may be needed when ADMELOG is coadministered with certain drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Dosage adjustment may be needed when switching from another insulin to ADMELOG [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Do NOT mix ADMELOG with any other insulin .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Insulin lispro injection 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : • 10 mL multiple - dose vials • 3 mL multiple - dose vials • 3 mL single patient use SoloStar prefilled pens Injection : 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : ( 3 ) • 10 mL multiple - dose vials • 3 mL multiple - dose vials • 3 mL single - patient - use SoloStar ® prefilled pens 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ADMELOG is contraindicated : • during episodes of hypoglycemia .
• in patients who are hypersensitive to insulin lispro or to any of the excipients .
• Do not use during episodes of hypoglycemia .
( 4 ) • Do not use in patients with hypersensitivity to insulin lispro or any of the excipients .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Never share an ADMELOG SoloStar disposable prefilled pen or syringe between patients , even if the needle is changed .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen : Make changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor blood glucose and increase monitoring frequency with changes to insulin dosage , use of glucose lowering medications , meal pattern , physical activity ; in patients with renal or hepatic impairment ; and in patients with hypoglycemia unawareness .
( 5 . 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors : Accidental mix - ups between insulin products can occur .
Instruct patients to check insulin labels before injection .
( 5 . 4 ) • Hypersensitivity Reactions : Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergic , including anaphylaxis can occur .
Discontinue ADMELOG , monitor and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 5 ) • Hypokalemia : May be life - threatening .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk of hypokalemia and treat if indicated .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) : Observe for signs and symptoms of heart failure ; consider dosage reduction or discontinuation if heart failure occurs .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hyperglycemia and Ketoacidosis Due to Insulin Pump Device Malfunction : Monitor glucose and administer ADMELOG by subcutaneous injection if pump malfunction occurs .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Never Share an ADMELOG SoloStar Pen or Syringe Between Patients ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using ADMELOG vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens .
5 . 2 Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia with Changes in Insulin Regimen Changes in an insulin regimen ( e . g . , insulin strength , manufacturer , type , injection site or method of administration ) may affect glycemic control and predispose to hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] or hyperglycemia .
Repeated insulin injections into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis have been reported to result in hyperglycemia ; and a sudden change in the injection site ( to unaffected area ) has been reported to result in hypoglycemia [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Make any changes to a patient ' s insulin regimen under close medical supervision with increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring .
Advise patients who have repeatedly injected into areas of lipodystrophy or localized cutaneous amyloidosis to change the injection site to unaffected areas and closely monitor for hypoglycemia .
For patients with type 2 diabetes , dosage adjustments of concomitant anti - diabetic products may be needed .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most common adverse reaction associated with insulins , including ADMELOG .
Severe hypoglycemia can cause seizures , may be life - threatening , or cause death .
Hypoglycemia can impair concentration ability and reaction time ; this may place an individual and others at risk in situations where these abilities are important ( e . g . , driving or operating other machinery ) .
Hypoglycemia can happen suddenly , and symptoms may differ in each individual and change over time in the same individual .
Symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia may be less pronounced in patients with longstanding diabetes , in patients with diabetic nerve disease , in patients using medications that block the sympathetic nervous system ( e . g . , beta - blockers ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] , or in patients who experience recurrent hypoglycemia .
Risk Factors for Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia after an injection is related to the duration of action of the insulin and , in general , is highest when the glucose lowering effect of the insulin is maximal .
As with all insulin preparations , the glucose lowering effect time course of ADMELOG may vary in different individuals or at different times in the same individual and depends on many conditions , including the area of injection as well as the injection site blood supply and temperature [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Other factors which may increase the risk of hypoglycemia include changes in meal pattern ( e . g . , macronutrient content or timing of meals ) , changes in level of physical activity , or changes to coadministered medication [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment may be at higher risk of hypoglycemia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
Risk Mitigation Strategies for Hypoglycemia Patients and caregivers must be educated to recognize and manage hypoglycemia .
Self - monitoring of blood glucose plays an essential role in the prevention and management of hypoglycemia .
In patients at higher risk for hypoglycemia and patients who have reduced symptomatic awareness of hypoglycemia , increased frequency of blood glucose monitoring is recommended .
5 . 4 Hypoglycemia Due to Medication Errors Accidental mix - ups between basal insulin products and other insulins , particularly rapid - acting insulins , have been reported .
To avoid medication errors between ADMELOG and other insulins , instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergic reactions , including anaphylaxis , can occur with insulin products , including ADMELOG .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue ADMELOG ; treat per standard of care and monitor until symptoms and signs resolve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
ADMELOG is contraindicated in patients who have had hypersensitivity reactions to insulin lispro or any of the excipients [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Hypokalemia All insulin products , including ADMELOG , cause a shift in potassium from the extracellular to intracellular space , possibly leading to hypokalemia .
Untreated hypokalemia may cause respiratory paralysis , ventricular arrhythmia , and death .
Monitor potassium levels in patients at risk for hypokalemia if indicated ( e . g . , patients using potassium - lowering medications , patients taking medications sensitive to serum potassium concentrations ) .
5 . 7 Fluid Retention and Heart Failure with Concomitant Use of PPAR - gamma Agonists Thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) , which are peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor ( PPAR ) - gamma agonists , can cause dose - related fluid retention , particularly when used in combination with insulin .
Fluid retention may lead to or exacerbate heart failure .
Patients treated with insulin , including ADMELOG , and a PPAR - gamma agonist should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure .
If heart failure develops , it should be managed according to current standards of care , and discontinuation or dose reduction of the PPAR - gamma agonist must be considered .
5 . 8 Hyperglycemia and Ketoacidosis Due to Insulin Pump Device Malfunction Malfunction of the insulin pump or insulin infusion set or insulin degradation can rapidly lead to hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis .
Prompt identification and correction of the cause of hyperglycemia or ketosis is necessary .
Interim subcutaneous injections with ADMELOG may be required .
Patients using continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion pump therapy must be trained to administer insulin by injection and have alternate insulin therapy available in case of pump failure [ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere : • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity and allergic reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Adverse reactions associated with ADMELOG include hypoglycemia , allergic reactions , injection site reactions , lipodystrophy , pruritus , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact sanofi - aventis at 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Two clinical trials with ADMELOG were conducted : one in patients with type 1 diabetes and one in patients with type 2 diabetes [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The data in Table 1 reflect the exposure of 252 patients with type 1 diabetes to ADMELOG with mean exposure duration of 49 weeks .
The type 1 diabetes population had the following characteristics : Mean age was 43 years and mean duration of diabetes was 20 years .
Fifty - nine percent were male , 80 % were White , 6 % were Black or African American and 7 % were Hispanic .
At baseline , the mean eGFR was 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and 49 % of patients had eGFR ≥ 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean BMI was 26 kg / m2 .
The mean HbA1c at baseline was 8 . 07 % .
Two hundred fifty - three patients with type 2 diabetes were exposed to ADMELOG with mean exposure duration of 25 weeks .
The type 2 diabetes population had the following characteristics : Mean age was 62 years and mean duration of diabetes was 17 years .
Fifty - four percent were male , 90 % were White , 6 % were Black or African American and 17 % were Hispanic .
At baseline , the mean eGFR was 77 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and 27 % of patients had eGFR ≥ 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean BMI was 32 kg / m2 .
The mean HbA1c at baseline was 7 . 99 % .
Common adverse reactions were defined as reactions occurring in ≥ 5 % of the population studied .
Common adverse reactions ( other than hypoglycemia ) during a clinical trial in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus are listed in Table 1 .
In a 26 - week clinical trial in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , no adverse reactions ( other than hypoglycemia ) occurring in ≥ 5 % of ADMELOG - treated patients ( n = 253 ) were observed .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 5 % of ADMELOG - Treated Patients with Type 1 Diabetes in a 52 - Week Trial ADMELOG + Insulin Glargine ( 100 units / mL ) , % ( n = 252 ) Nasopharyngitis 13 . 1 % Upper respiratory tract infection 6 . 0 % Severe Hypoglycemia Hypoglycemia is the most commonly observed adverse reaction in patients using insulin , including ADMELOG [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The rates of reported hypoglycemia depend on the definition of hypoglycemia used , diabetes type , insulin dose , intensity of glucose control , background therapies , and other intrinsic and extrinsic patient factors .
For these reasons , comparing rates of hypoglycemia in clinical trials for ADMELOG with the incidence of hypoglycemia for other products may be misleading and also , may not be representative of hypoglycemia rates that will occur in clinical practice .
In the ADMELOG trials , severe hypoglycemia was defined as an event requiring assistance of another person to actively administer carbohydrate , glucagon , or other resuscitative actions .
The incidence of severe hypoglycemia in patients receiving ADMELOG with type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus was 13 . 5 % at 52 weeks and 2 . 4 % at 26 weeks , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Insulin Initiation and Intensification of Glucose Control Intensification or rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory , reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder , worsening of diabetic retinopathy , and acute painful peripheral neuropathy .
However , long - term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy and neuropathy .
Lipodystrophy Long - term use of insulin , including ADMELOG , can cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated insulin injections or infusion .
Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy ( thickening of adipose tissue ) and lipoatrophy ( thinning of adipose tissue ) and may affect insulin absorption .
Rotate insulin injection or infusion sites within the same region to reduce the risk of lipodystrophy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Weight Gain Weight gain can occur with insulin therapy , including ADMELOG , and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria .
Peripheral Edema Insulin , including ADMELOG , may cause sodium retention and edema , particularly if previously poor metabolic control is improved by intensified insulin therapy .
Adverse Reactions with Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Infusion ( CSII ) In a randomized , open - label crossover study in adult patients with type 1 diabetes treated over two 4 - week periods , the incidence of infusion set occlusions ( defined as failure to correct hyperglycemia [ plasma glucose ≥ 300 mg / dL ] by insulin bolus via insulin pump ) in ADMELOG - treated patients ( n = 25 ) was evaluated .
Infusion - set occlusions were reported by 24 % of patients .
In a randomized , 16 - week , open - label , parallel design study of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes , adverse event reports related to infusion - site reactions for another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , occurred in 21 % of patients .
The most frequently reported infusion site adverse events were infusion site erythema and infusion site reaction .
Allergic Reactions Local allergy As with any insulin therapy , patients taking ADMELOG may experience redness , swelling , or itching at the site of the injection .
These minor reactions usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks , but in some occasions may require discontinuation of ADMELOG .
In some instances , these reactions may be related to factors other than insulin , such as irritants in a skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique .
Systemic allergy Severe , life - threatening , generalized allergy , including anaphylaxis , may occur with any insulin , including ADMELOG .
Generalized allergy to insulin may cause whole body rash ( including pruritus ) , dyspnea , wheezing , hypotension , tachycardia , or diaphoresis .
Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have been reported with injected metacresol , which is an excipient in ADMELOG [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity Consistent with the potentially immunogenic properties of protein and peptide pharmaceuticals , patients treated with ADMELOG may develop anti - insulin antibodies .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and may be influenced by several factors such as assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medication , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , the incidence of antibodies to ADMELOG in the studies described below cannot be directly compared with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products .
In a 52 - week study of ADMELOG in type 1 diabetes patients , 49 . 4 % were positive at baseline and 22 . 6 % had treatment - emergent ADA ( i . e . , either new ADA , or increase in titer of at least 4 - fold ) .
In a 26 - week study of ADMELOG in type 2 diabetes patients , 26 . 4 % were positive at baseline and 18 . 8 % had treatment - emergent ADA ( i . e . , either new ADA , or increase in titer of at least 4 - fold ) .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Medication errors in which other insulins have been accidentally substituted for another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , have been identified during postapproval use [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Localized cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has occurred .
Hyperglycemia has been reported with repeated insulin injections into areas of localized cutaneous amyloidosis ; hypoglycemia has been reported with a sudden change to an unaffected injection site .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that Affect Glucose Metabolism : Adjustment of insulin dosage may be needed .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) • Antiadrenergic Drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine ) : Signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that May Increase the Risk of Hypoglycemia The risk of hypoglycemia associated with ADMELOG use may be increased when coadministered with antidiabetic agents , salicylates , sulfonamide antibiotics , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , fluoxetine , pramlintide , disopyramide , fibrates , pentoxifylline , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blocking agents , and somatostatin analogs ( e . g . , octreotide ) .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when ADMELOG is coadministered with these drugs .
7 . 2 Drugs that May Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of ADMELOG The glucose lowering effect of ADMELOG may be decreased when coadministered with corticosteroids , isoniazid , niacin , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenothiazines , danazol , diuretics , sympathomimetic agents ( e . g . , epinephrine , albuterol , terbutaline ) , somatropin , atypical antipsychotics , glucagon , protease inhibitors , and thyroid hormones .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when ADMELOG is coadministered with these drugs .
7 . 3 Drugs that May Increase or Decrease the Blood Glucose Lowering Effect of ADMELOG The glucose lowering effect of ADMELOG may be increased or decreased when coadministered with beta - blockers , clonidine , lithium salts , and alcohol .
Pentamidine may cause hypoglycemia , which may sometimes be followed by hyperglycemia .
Dose adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required when ADMELOG is coadministered with these drugs .
7 . 4 Drugs that May Blunt Signs and Symptoms of Hypoglycemia The signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] may be blunted when beta - blockers , clonidine , guanethidine , and reserpine are coadministered with ADMELOG .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatrics : Safety and effectiveness not established in pediatric patients < 3 years of age with type 1 diabetes mellitus or in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data with ADMELOG in pregnant women are insufficient to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Published studies with another insulin lispro product used during pregnancy have not reported an association between insulin lispro and the induction of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
Pregnant rats and rabbits were exposed to another insulin lispro product in animal reproduction studies during organogenesis .
Fetal growth retardation was observed in offspring of rats exposed to insulin lispro at a dose approximately 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 . 0 unit / kg / day .
No adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were observed in offspring of rabbits exposed to insulin lispro at doses up to approximately 0 . 24 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 . 0 unit / kg / day [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 % - 10 % in women with pregestational diabetes with a HbA1c > 7 % and has been reported to be as high as 20 % - 25 % in women with a HbA1c > 10 % .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo - fetal risk Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , preeclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human data Published data from retrospective studies and meta - analyses do not report an association with another insulin lispro product and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when insulin lispro is used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish or exclude the absence of any risk because of methodological limitations including small sample size , selection bias , confounding by unmeasured factors , and some lacking comparator groups .
Animal data In a combined fertility and embryo - fetal development study with another insulin lispro product , female rats were given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 5 and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 8 and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) from 2 weeks prior to cohabitation through Gestation Day 19 .
There were no adverse effects on female fertility , implantation , or fetal viability and morphology .
However , fetal growth retardation was observed at the 20 units / kg / day dose as indicated by decreased fetal weight and an increased incidence of fetal runts / litter .
In an embryo - fetal development study in pregnant rabbits with another insulin lispro product , insulin lispro doses of 0 . 1 , 0 . 25 , and 0 . 75 unit / kg / day ( 0 . 03 , 0 . 08 , and 0 . 24 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area , respectively ) were injected subcutaneously on Gestation Days 7 through 19 .
There were no adverse effects on fetal viability , weight , and morphology at any dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of insulin lispro in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Endogenous insulin is present in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ADMELOG and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from ADMELOG or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ADMELOG have been established in pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus who are 3 years of age and older .
Use of ADMELOG in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of ADMELOG and another insulin lispro product , 100 units / ml , in adults with additional data from adequate and well - controlled studies of pediatric patients using another insulin lispro product , 100 units / ml [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of ADMELOG have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 3 years of age with type 1 diabetes mellitus or in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
The dosage of ADMELOG must be individualized in pediatric patients based on metabolic needs and results of frequent monitoring of blood glucose .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects ( n = 2 , 834 ) in eight clinical studies of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , 12 % ( n = 338 ) were 65 years of age or over .
The majority of these had type 2 diabetes .
HbA1c values and hypoglycemia rates did not differ by age .
Of the total number of subjects ( n = 1 , 011 ) in clinical studies of patients treated with ADMELOG or another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , 26 . 5 % ( n = 268 ) were 65 years of age or over .
The majority of these had type 2 diabetes .
HbA1c values and hypoglycemia rates did not differ by age .
Pharmacokinetic / pharmacodynamic studies to assess the effect of age on the onset of ADMELOG action have not been performed .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent ADMELOG dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk of hypoglycemia and may require more frequent ADMELOG dose adjustment and more frequent blood glucose monitoring [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Excess insulin administration may cause hypoglycemia and hypokalemia .
Mild episodes of hypoglycemia usually can be treated with oral glucose .
Adjustments in drug dosage , meal patterns , or exercise may be needed .
More severe episodes with coma , seizure , or neurologic impairment may be treated with intramuscular / subcutaneous glucagon or concentrated intravenous glucose .
Sustained carbohydrate intake and observation may be necessary because hypoglycemia may recur after apparent clinical recovery .
Hypokalemia must be corrected appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION ADMELOG ( insulin lispro injection ) is a rapid - acting human insulin analog used to lower blood glucose .
Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non - pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli .
Insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline .
Chemically , it is Lys ( B28 ) , Pro ( B29 ) human insulin analog and has the empirical formula C257H383N65O77S6 and a molecular weight of 5808 , both identical to that of human insulin .
ADMELOG has the following primary structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] ADMELOG is a sterile , aqueous , clear , and colorless solution .
Each milliliter of ADMELOG contains insulin lispro 100 units , 16 mg glycerin , 1 . 88 mg dibasic sodium phosphate , 3 . 15 mg metacresol , zinc oxide content adjusted to provide 0 . 0197 mg zinc ion , and Water for Injection .
Insulin lispro has a pH of 7 . 0 to 7 . 8 .
The pH is adjusted by addition of aqueous solutions of hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Regulation of glucose metabolism is the primary activity of insulins and insulin analogs , including insulin lispro products .
Insulins lower blood glucose by stimulating peripheral glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and fat , and by inhibiting hepatic glucose production .
Insulins inhibit lipolysis and proteolysis and enhance protein synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Subcutaneous Administration The pharmacodynamic profile of a single 0 . 3 unit / kg dose of ADMELOG administered subcutaneously was evaluated in a euglycemic clamp study enrolling 30 patients with type 1 diabetes .
In this study , the mean ( SD ) time to maximum effect of ADMELOG ( measured by the peak rate of glucose infusion ) was approximately 2 . 07 ( 0 . 78 ) hours .
The mean ( SD ) area under the glucose infusion rate curves ( measure of overall pharmacodynamic effect ) and mean ( SD ) maximum glucose infusion rate were 1953 . 5 ( 547 . 3 ) mg / kg and 9 . 97 ( 2 . 37 ) mg / min / kg , respectively ( see Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Mean Smoothed Glucose Infusion Rate [ 1 ] after Subcutaneous Injection of ADMELOG ( 0 . 3 unit / kg ) in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ 1 ] Body Weight Standardized The time course of action of insulin and insulin analogs , including insulin lispro products , may vary considerably in different individuals or within the same individual .
The rate of insulin absorption and , consequently , the onset of activity are known to be affected by the site of injection , exercise , and other variables [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Intravenous Administration The glucose lowering effect of intravenous administration of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , was tested in 21 patients with type 1 diabetes .
For the study , the patients ' usual doses of insulin were held , and blood glucose concentrations were allowed to reach a stable range of 200 to 260 mg / dL during a one to three - hour run - in phase .
The run - in phase was followed by a 6 - hour assessment phase .
During the assessment phase , patients received intravenous infusion of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , at an initial infusion rate of 0 . 5 units / hour .
The infusion rate could be adjusted at regular timed intervals to achieve and maintain blood glucose concentrations between 100 to 160 mg / dL .
The mean blood glucose levels during the assessment phase for patients on another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , therapy are summarized below in Table 2 .
All patients achieved the targeted glucose range at some point during the 6 - hour assessment phase .
At the endpoint , blood glucose was within the target range ( 100 to 160 mg / dL ) for 17 of 20 patients treated with another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL .
The average time ( ± SE ) required to attain near normoglycemia was 129 ± 14 minutes for another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL .
Table 2 : Mean Blood Glucose Concentrations ( mg / dL ) During Intravenous Infusions of Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mLTime from Start of Infusion ( minutes ) Mean Blood Glucose ( mg / dL ) Intravenous [ 1 ] 0 224 ± 16 30 205 ± 21 60 195 ± 20 120 165 ± 26 180 140 ± 26 240 123 ± 20 300 120 ± 27 360 122 ± 25 [ 1 ] Results shown as mean ± SD .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The pharmacokinetic profile of a single 0 . 3 unit / kg dose of ADMELOG administered subcutaneously was evaluated in a study enrolling 30 patients with type 1 diabetes .
In this study , the mean observed area under the plasma insulin lispro concentration - time curve from time zero to infinity and peak plasma insulin lispro concentration were 12800 pg ∙ hr / mL and 5070 pg / mL , respectively .
The median time to maximum plasma insulin lispro concentration was 0 . 83 hours after injection ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : Mean Plasma Concentrations of ADMELOG after a Single Subcutaneous Administration of ADMELOG ( 0 . 3 unit / kg ) in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes [ MULTIMEDIA ] The absolute bioavailability of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , after subcutaneous injection ranges from 55 % to 77 % with doses between 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 unit / kg , inclusive .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distribution When administered intravenously as bolus injections of 0 . 1 and 0 . 2 unit / kg dose in two separate groups of healthy subjects , the mean volume of distribution of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , appeared to decrease with increase in dose ( 1 . 55 and 0 . 72 L / kg , respectively ) .
Elimination Metabolism Human metabolism studies have not been conducted .
However , animal studies indicate that the metabolism of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , is identical to that of regular human insulin .
Excretion When administered intravenously , another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL demonstrated dose - dependent clearance , with a mean clearance of 21 . 0 mL / min / kg ( 0 . 1 unit / kg dose ) , and 9 . 6 mL / min / kg ( 0 . 2 unit / kg dose ) .
Another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , demonstrated a mean t1 / 2 of 0 . 85 hours ( 51 minutes ) and 0 . 92 hours ( 55 minutes ) , respectively for 0 . 1 unit / kg and 0 . 2 unit / kg doses .
Specific Populations The effects of age , gender , race , obesity , pregnancy , or smoking on the pharmacokinetics of ADMELOG have not been studied .
Patients with renal impairment Type 2 diabetic patients with varying degrees of renal impairment showed no difference in pharmacokinetics of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL .
However , the sensitivity of the patients to insulin did change , with an increased response to insulin as the renal function declined .
Some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with renal impairment .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including ADMELOG , may be necessary in patients with renal dysfunction .
Patients with hepatic impairment Type 2 diabetic patients with impaired hepatic function showed no effect on the pharmacokinetics of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , as compared to patients with no hepatic dysfunction .
However , some studies with human insulin have shown increased circulating levels of insulin in patients with liver failure .
Careful glucose monitoring and dose adjustments of insulin , including ADMELOG , may be necessary in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Standard 2 - year carcinogenicity studies in animals have not been performed .
In Fischer 344 rats , a 12 - month repeat - dose toxicity study was conducted with insulin lispro at subcutaneous doses of 20 and 200 units / kg / day ( approximately 3 and 32 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) .
Insulin lispro did not produce important target organ toxicity including mammary tumors at any dose .
Insulin lispro was not mutagenic in the following genetic toxicity assays : bacterial mutation , unscheduled DNA synthesis , mouse lymphoma , chromosomal aberration , and micronucleus assays .
Male fertility was not compromised when male rats given subcutaneous insulin lispro injections of 5 and 20 units / kg / day ( 0 . 8 and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) for 6 months were mated with untreated female rats .
In a combined fertility , perinatal , and postnatal study in male and female rats given 1 , 5 , and 20 units / kg / day subcutaneously ( 0 . 16 , 0 . 8 , and 3 times the human subcutaneous dose of 1 unit / kg / day , based on units / body surface area ) , mating and fertility were not adversely affected in either gender at any dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Overview of Clinical Studies The safety and effectiveness of ADMELOG have been established based on adequate and well controlled studies of ADMELOG in adult patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus , and based on adequate and well controlled studies of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , in adult and pediatric patients 3 years of age and older with type 1 diabetes mellitus and adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
The safety and effectiveness of ADMELOG were studied in 507 adult patients with type 1 diabetes and 505 adult patients with type 2 diabetes .
The safety and effectiveness of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , were studied in 1 , 087 adult and pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes and in 722 adult patients with type 2 diabetes .
14 . 2 Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Subcutaneous Injection ADMELOG : Study in Adult Patients A 26 - week open - label , active - controlled study ( NCT02273180 ) evaluated the glucose lowering effect of ADMELOG plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL , compared to that of Comparator ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , or a non – U . S . - approved insulin lispro , 100 units / mL ) , plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL .
A total of 507 patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus treated with insulin glargine 100 units / mL and rapid - acting mealtime insulin analogs participated in the study .
Patients were randomized to ADMELOG ( n = 253 ) or Comparator ( n = 254 ) .
ADMELOG or Comparator was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals .
The mean age of these subjects was 43 years , and 59 . 6 % were male .
The population was 82 . 1 % White , 4 . 7 % Black or African American and 5 . 3 % were Hispanic .
The population had type 1 diabetes mellitus for a mean duration of 19 years .
The mean eGFR was 90 . 6 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and 48 . 7 % of patients had GFR ≥ 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean BMI was approximately 26 kg / m2 .
At baseline , 60 . 6 % , 37 . 5 % and 2 . 0 % of the patients were using other insulin lispro products , 100 units / mL , insulin aspart , 100 units / mL , or both , respectively .
At week 26 , treatment with ADMELOG provided a mean reduction in HbA1c that was non - inferior to that achieved with the Comparator ( see Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Adults – Mean Change in HbA1c ( ADMELOG plus Insulin Glargine , 100 units / mL , versus Comparator plus Insulin Glargine , 100 units / mL ) Treatment Duration Treatment in Combination with : 26 Weeks Insulin Glargine ADMELOG Comparator N [ 1 ] 253 254 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 08 7 . 99 Adjusted mean change from baseline [ 2 ] - 0 . 40 - 0 . 46 Adjusted mean difference [ 3 ] ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 06 ( - 0 . 086 to 0 . 201 ) [ 1 ] ITT : Intent - to - treat ; all randomized patients .
[ 2 ] Estimated using a multiple imputation method that models a " return to baseline " for patients having missing data who discontinued treatment .
ANCOVA was used with treatment and stratification groups as fixed factors and baseline HbA1c as a covariate .
[ 3 ] Treatment difference : ADMELOG - Comparator .
Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mL : Study in Adult and Pediatric Patients 12 Years of Age and Older A 12 - month , randomized , parallel , open - label , active - controlled study was conducted in 167 patients with type 1 diabetes to assess the safety and efficacy of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL ( n = 81 ) , compared with regular human insulin , 100 units / mL ( n = 86 ) .
This other insulin lispro product was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals and regular human insulin was administered 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
Human insulin extended zinc suspension was administered once or twice daily as the basal insulin .
There was a 2 to 4 - week run - in period with regular human insulin and human insulin extended zinc suspension before randomization .
The mean age of these subjects was 31 years ( range 12 to 70 years ) , and 47 % were male .
The population was 97 % White .
Table 4 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Adults and Pediatric Patients 12 Years of Age and Older – Mean Change in HbA1c % ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , versus regular human insulin , 100 units / mL ) Treatment Duration Treatment in Combination with : 12 Months Human Insulin Extended Zinc Another Insulin Lispro Product Regular Human Insulin N 81 86 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] 8 . 2 ± 1 . 4 8 . 3 ± 1 . 7 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) null - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 9 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 Treatment difference in HbA1c mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0 . 4 ( 0 . 0 ; 0 . 8 ) [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD .
Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mL : Studies in Pediatric Patients 3 Years of Age and Older An 8 - month , crossover study of pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes ( n = 463 ) , aged 9 to 19 years , compared two subcutaneous multiple - dose treatment regimens : another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , or regular human insulin , 100 units / mL , both administered with NPH human insulin isophane suspension as the basal insulin .
Insulin lispro achieved glycemic control comparable to regular human insulin , as measured by HbA1c ( see Table 5 ) .
Table 5 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Pediatric Patients 9 Years of Age and Older – Mean Change in HbA1c ( % ) ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , versus regular human insulin , 100 units / mL ) Baseline Another Insulin Lispro Product + NPH Regular Human Insulin + NPH HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] 8 . 6 ± 1 . 5 8 . 7 ± 1 . 5 8 . 7 ± 1 . 6 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) null - 0 . 1 ± 1 . 1 0 . 1 ± 1 . 3 [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD .
In a 9 - month , crossover study of pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( n = 60 ) , aged 3 to 11 years , compared three subcutaneous injection regimens : another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , administered immediately before meals , this same insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , administered immediately after meals and regular human insulin , 100 units / mL administered 30 minutes before meals resulted in similar glycemic control , as measured by HbA1c , regardless of treatment group .
14 . 3 Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Continuous Subcutaneous Infusion Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mL : Studies in Adult and Pediatric Patients 15 Years of Age and Older To evaluate the administration of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , as a subcutaneous infusion via external insulin pumps , two open - label , crossover studies were performed in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus .
One study involved 39 patients , ages 19 to 58 years , treated for 24 weeks with another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , or regular human insulin 100 units / mL .
After 12 weeks of treatment , the mean HbA1c values decreased from 7 . 8 % to 7 . 2 % in patients treated with another insulin lispro , and from 7 . 8 % to 7 . 5 % in the regular human insulin - treated patients .
Another study involved 60 patients ( mean age 39 , range 15 to 58 years ) treated for 24 weeks with either another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , or buffered regular human insulin , 100 units / mL .
After 12 weeks of treatment , the mean HbA1c values decreased from 7 . 7 % to 7 . 4 % in patients treated with insulin lispro and remained unchanged from 7 . 7 % in the buffered regular human insulin - treated patients .
Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mL : Study in Pediatric Patients 4 Years of Age and Older A randomized , 16 - week , open - label , parallel design , study of pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( n = 298 ) , aged 4 to 18 years , compared two subcutaneous infusion regimens administered via an external insulin pump : insulin aspart , 100 units / mL ( n = 198 ) , or another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL ( n = 100 ) .
These two treatments resulted in comparable changes from baseline in HbA1c after 16 weeks of treatment ( see Table 6 ) .
Table 6 : Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus – Pediatric Patients 4 Years of Age and Older – Mean Change in HbA1c ( % ) ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , versus insulin aspart , 100 units / mL ) in Insulin Pump StudyTreatment duration 16 Weeks Another Insulin Lispro Product Insulin Aspart N 100 198 Baseline HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] 8 . 2 ± 0 . 8 8 . 0 ± 0 . 9 Change from Baseline HbA1c ( % ) - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 7 - 0 . 1 ± 0 . 8 Treatment Difference in HbA1c , Mean ( 95 % confidence interval ) 0 . 1 ( - 0 . 3 , 0 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD .
14 . 4 Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ADMELOG : Study in Adult Patients A 26 - week open - label , active - controlled study ( NCT02294474 ) evaluated the glucose lowering effect of ADMELOG plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL , compared to that of Comparator ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , or a non – U . S . - approved insulin lispro , 100 units / mL ) plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL .
A total of 505 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with insulin glargine , 100 units / mL , and rapid - acting mealtime insulin analogs participated in the study .
Patients were randomized to ADMELOG , 100 units / mL ( n = 253 ) or Comparator ( n = 252 ) .
ADMELOG or Comparator , was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately prior to meals .
The mean age of these subjects was 62 . 5 years , and 53 . 1 % were male .
The population was 88 . 3 % White , 6 . 1 % Black or African American and 17 . 8 % were Hispanic .
The population had type 2 diabetes mellitus for a mean duration of 17 years .
The mean eGFR was 77 . 9 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 and 26 . 9 % of patients had GFR > 90 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
The mean BMI was approximately 32 . 2 kg / m2 .
At baseline , 51 . 4 % , 48 . 2 % , and 0 . 4 % of the patients were using other insulin lispro products , 100 units / mL , insulin aspart , 100 units / mL , or both , respectively .
At week 26 , treatment with ADMELOG provided a mean reduction in HbA1c that was non - inferior to that achieved with the Comparator ( see Table 7 ) .
Table 7 : Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus – Adults – Mean Change in HbA1c ( % ) ( ADMELOG plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL , versus comparator plus insulin glargine , 100 units / mL ) Treatment Duration Treatment in Combination with : 26 Weeks Insulin Glargine ADMELOG Comparator N [ 1 ] 253 252 HbA1c ( % ) Baseline ( mean ) 8 . 00 8 . 03 Adjusted mean change from baseline [ 2 ] - 0 . 86 - 0 . 80 Adjusted mean difference [ 3 ] ( 95 % CI ) - 0 . 06 ( - 0 . 209 to 0 . 091 ) [ 1 ] ITT : Intent - to - treat ; all randomized patients .
[ 2 ] Estimated using a multiple imputation method that models a " return - to - baseline " for patients having missing data who discontinued treatment .
ANCOVA was used with treatment and stratification groups as fixed factors and baseline HbA1c as a covariate .
[ 3 ] Treatment difference : ADMELOG – Comparator .
Another Insulin Lispro Product , 100 units / mL : Study in Adult Patients A 6 - month randomized , crossover , open - label , active - controlled study was conducted in 722 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with insulin to assess the safety and efficacy of another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , for 3 months followed by regular human insulin , 100 units / mL , for 3 months or the reverse sequence .
This other insulin lispro product was administered by subcutaneous injection immediately before meals and regular human insulin was administered 30 to 45 minutes before meals .
NPH human insulin isophane suspension or human insulin extended zinc suspension was administered once or twice daily as the basal insulin .
All patients participated in a 2 to 4 - week run - in period with regular human insulin and NPH human insulin isophane suspension or human insulin extended zinc suspension .
Most of the patients were Caucasian ( 88 % ) , and the numbers of men and women in each group were approximately equal .
The mean age was 58 . 6 years ( range 23 . 8 to 85 years ) .
The average body mass index ( BMI ) was 28 . 2 kg / m2 .
During the study , the majority of patients used NPH human insulin isophane suspension ( 84 % ) compared with human insulin extended zinc suspension ( 16 % ) as their basal insulin .
The reductions from baseline in HbA1c were similar between the two treatments from the combined groups ( see Table 8 ) .
Table 8 : Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus – Adults – Mean Change in HbA1c ( % ) ( another insulin lispro product , 100 units / mL , versus regular human insulin , 100 units / mL ) Treatment Duration 3 Months Baseline Another Insulin Lispro Product + Basal Regular Human Insulin + Basal HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] 8 . 9 ± 1 . 7 8 . 2 ± 1 . 3 8 . 2 ± 1 . 4 Change from baseline HbA1c ( % ) null - - 0 . 7 ± 1 . 4 - 0 . 7 ± 1 . 3 [ 1 ] Values are Mean ± SD .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied ADMELOG : Insulin Lispro Injection 100 units per mL ( U - 100 ) is available as : Dosage Unit Package Size NDC # 10 mL multiple - dose vials Carton of 1 0024 - 5924 - 10 3 mL multiple - dose vials Carton of 1 0024 - 5926 - 05 3 mL single patient use SoloStar prefilled pen Carton of 5 0024 - 5925 - 05 Each prefilled SoloStar pen is for use by a single patient .
ADMELOG SoloStar pen must never be shared between patients , even if the needle is changed .
Patients using ADMELOG vials must never share needles or syringes with another person .
The ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen dials in 1 - unit increments .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Dispense in the original sealed carton with the enclosed Instructions for Use .
Do not use after the expiration date .
Not in - use ( unopened ) ADMELOG should be stored in a refrigerator ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F [ 2 ° C - 8 ° C ] ) , but not in the freezer .
Do not use ADMELOG if it has been frozen .
In - use ( opened ) ADMELOG vials and ADMELOG SoloStar pens should be stored at room temperature ( below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) and must be used within 28 days or be discarded , even if they still contain ADMELOG .
Protect from direct heat and light .
See table below : ADMELOG Not In - Use ( Unopened ) Room Temperature ( Below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) Not In - Use ( Unopened ) Refrigerated ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F [ 2 ° C - 8 ° C ] ) In - Use ( Opened ) Room Temperature ( Below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) 10 mL multiple - dose vial 28 days Until expiration date 28 days refrigerated / room temperature 3 mL multiple - dose vial 28 days Until expiration date 28 days refrigerated / room temperature 3 mL single - patient - use SoloStar prefilled pen 28 days Until expiration date 28 days Do not refrigerate .
Use in an External Insulin Pump Insulin in the reservoir should be discarded after 7 days .
However , as with other external insulin pumps , the infusion set should be replaced and a new infusion set insertion site should be selected at least every 3 days .
Diluted ADMELOG for Subcutaneous Injection Diluted ADMELOG may remain in patient use for up to 24 hours when stored in a refrigerator ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F [ 2 ° C - 8 ° C ] ) or for up to 4 hours when stored at room temperature ( 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) .
Do not dilute ADMELOG used in an external insulin pump .
16 . 3 Preparation and Handling Diluted ADMELOG for Subcutaneous Injection ADMELOG may be diluted with sterile 0 . 9 % sodium chloride for subcutaneous injection .
Diluting one - part ADMELOG to one - part 0 . 9 % sodium chloride will yield a concentration one - half that of ADMELOG ( equivalent to U - 50 ) .
16 . 4 Admixture for Intravenous Administration Infusion bags prepared with ADMELOG are stable when stored in a refrigerator ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F [ 2 ° C - 8 ° C ] ) for 24 hours or may be used at room temperature for up to 4 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Never Share an ADMELOG SoloStar Prefilled Pen or Syringe Between Patients Advise patients that they must never share an ADMELOG SoloStar pen with another person , even if the needle is changed .
Advise patients using ADMELOG vials not to share needles or syringes with another person .
Sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood - borne pathogens [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hyperglycemia or Hypoglycemia Instruct patients on self - management procedures including glucose monitoring , proper injection technique , and management of hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia , especially at initiation of ADMELOG therapy .
Instruct patients on handling of special situations such as intercurrent conditions ( illness , stress , or emotional disturbances ) , an inadequate or skipped insulin dose , inadvertent administration of an increased insulin dose , inadequate food intake , and skipped meals .
Instruct patients on the management of hypoglycemia .
Inform patients that their ability to concentrate and react may be impaired as a result of hypoglycemia .
Advise patients who have frequent hypoglycemia or reduced or absent warning signs of hypoglycemia to use caution when driving or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Advise patients that changes in insulin regimen can predispose to hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia and that changes in insulin regimen should be made under close medical supervision [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients that hypersensitivity reactions have occurred with ADMELOG .
Inform patients on the symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Medication Errors Instruct patients to always check the insulin label before each injection to avoid mix - ups between insulin products [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise females of reproductive potential with diabetes to inform their doctor if they are pregnant or are contemplating pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Instructions for Patients Using Continuous Subcutaneous Insulin Pumps Appropriately train patients using external pump infusion therapy on proper pump use .
Insulin pumps should be used in accordance with the pump ' s instructions for use .
Before using ADMELOG in a pump system for continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion , read the pump user manual to make sure that ADMELOG can be used .
ADMELOG is recommended for use in any reservoir and infusion sets that are compatible with insulin and the specific pump .
Please see recommended reservoir and infusion sets in the pump manual .
Instruct patients to replace insulin in the reservoir at least every 7 days to avoid insulin degradation , infusion set occlusion , loss of preservative efficacy ; infusion sets and infusion set insertion sites should be changed at least every 3 days .
Instruct patients to discard insulin exposed to temperatures higher than 98 . 6 ° F ( 37 ° C ) .
The temperature of the insulin may exceed ambient temperature when the pump housing , cover , tubing , or sport case is exposed to sunlight or radiant heat .
Instruct patients to report infusion sites that are erythematous , pruritic , or thickened , and to select a new site because continued infusion may increase the skin reaction or alter the absorption of ADMELOG .
Inform patients that pump or infusion set malfunctions or insulin degradation can lead to rapid hyperglycemia and ketosis and to promptly identify and correct the cause of hyperglycemia or ketosis .
Problems include pump malfunction , infusion set occlusion , leakage , disconnection or kinking , and degraded insulin .
Less commonly , hypoglycemia from pump malfunction may occur .
Instruct patients to resume therapy with subcutaneous insulin injection and contact their healthcare professional if these problems cannot be promptly corrected [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 A SANOFI COMPANY ADMELOG and SoloStar are registered trademarks of sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC .
© 2020 sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : November 2019 Patient Information ADMELOG ® ( ad - mah - log ) ( insulin lispro injection ) for subcutaneous or intravenous use , 100 Units / mL ( U - 100 ) Do not share your ADMELOG SoloStar ® Pen or syringe with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
What is ADMELOG ?
• ADMELOG is a man - made insulin used to control high blood sugar in adults and children with diabetes mellitus .
• It is not known if ADMELOG is safe and effective in children younger than 3 years of age or when used to treat children with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Do not use ADMELOG if you : • are having an episode of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• have an allergy to ADMELOG or any of the ingredients in ADMELOG .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in ADMELOG .
Before using ADMELOG , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver or kidney problems .
• take other medicines , especially ones commonly called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) .
• have heart failure or other heart problems .
If you have heart failure , it may get worse while you take TZDs with ADMELOG .
• are pregnant , planning to become pregnant , or are breastfeeding .
It is not known if ADMELOG may harm your unborn or breastfeeding baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , or herbal supplements .
Before you start using ADMELOG , talk to your healthcare provider about low blood sugar and how to manage it .
How should I use ADMELOG ?
• Read the detailed Instructions for Use that come with your ADMELOG .
• Use ADMELOG exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
Your healthcare provider should tell you how much ADMELOG to use and when to use it .
• Know the amount of ADMELOG you use .
Do not change the amount of ADMELOG you use unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
The amount of insulin and the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take a different type of insulin .
• Check your insulin label each time you give your injection to make sure you are using the correct insulin .
• ADMELOG comes in a vial or in a SoloStar single - patient - use prefilled pen .
Do not reuse needles .
Always use a new needle for each injection .
Reuse of needles increases your risk of having blocked needles , which may cause you to get the wrong dose of ADMELOG .
Using a new needle for each injection also lowers your risk of getting an infection .
If your needle is blocked , follow the instructions in Step 3 of the Instructions for Use of your pen .
• ADMELOG is a rapid - acting insulin .
Take ADMELOG within 15 minutes before eating or right after eating a meal .
• ADMELOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your upper arms , thighs , buttocks , or stomach area ( abdomen ) , or by continuous infusion under the skin ( subcutaneously ) through an insulin pump into an area of your body recommended in the instructions that come with your insulin pump .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the area you choose with each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not use the exact same spot for each injection .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider what your blood sugar should be and when you should check your blood sugar levels .
Keep ADMELOG and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Your dose of ADMELOG may need to change because of : • a change in physical activity or exercise , weight gain or loss , increased stress , illness , change in diet , or because of other medicines you take .
What should I avoid while using ADMELOG ?
While using ADMELOG do not : • drive or operate heavy machinery , until you know how ADMELOG affects you .
• drink alcohol or use prescription or over - the - counter medicines that contain alcohol .
What are the possible side effects of ADMELOG ?
ADMELOG may cause serious side effects that can lead to death , including : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Signs and symptoms that may indicate low blood sugar include : • dizziness or light - headedness , sweating , confusion , headache , blurred vision , slurred speech , shakiness , fast heartbeat , anxiety , irritability or mood changes , hunger .
• serious allergic reactions ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away , if you have any of these signs or symptoms of a severe allergic reaction : • a rash over your whole body , trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , feel faint , or sweating .
• low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) .
• heart failure .
Taking certain diabetes pills called TZDs ( thiazolidinediones ) with ADMELOG may cause heart failure in some people .
This can happen even if you have never had heart failure or heart problems before .
If you already have heart failure it may get worse while you take TZDs with ADMELOG .
Your healthcare provider should monitor you closely while you are taking TZDs with ADMELOG .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any new or worse symptoms of heart failure including : • shortness of breath , swelling of your ankles or feet , sudden weight gain .
Treatment with TZDs and ADMELOG may need to be adjusted or stopped by your healthcare provider if you have new or worse heart failure .
Get emergency medical help if you have : • trouble breathing , shortness of breath , fast heartbeat , swelling of your face , tongue , or throat , sweating , extreme drowsiness , dizziness , confusion .
The most common side effects of ADMELOG include : • low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , allergic reactions , including reactions at the injection site , skin thickening or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) , itching , and rash .
These are not all the possible side effects of ADMELOG .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of ADMELOG Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use ADMELOG for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ADMELOG to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about ADMELOG that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . sanofi . com or call 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 .
What are the ingredients in ADMELOG ?
Active ingredient : insulin lispro Inactive ingredients : glycerin , dibasic sodium phosphate , metacresol , zinc oxide ( zinc ion ) , and Water for Injection .
Hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide may be added to adjust pH . Manufactured by : sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 , A SANOFI COMPANY ADMELOG and SoloStar are registered trademarks of sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC .
Instructions for Use ADMELOG ® ( ad - mah - log ) ( insulin lispro injection ) for subcutaneous use 10 mL or 3 mL Vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) Read these Instructions for Use before you start taking ADMELOG and each time you get a new ADMELOG vial .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
Do not share your ADMELOG syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies needed to give your injection • an ADMELOG 10 mL or 3 mL vial • a U - 100 insulin syringe and needle • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 sharps container for throwing away used needles and syringes .
See " Disposing of used needles and syringes " at the end of these instructions .
Preparing your ADMELOG dose • Wash your hands with soap and water or with alcohol .
• Check the ADMELOG label to make sure you are taking the right type of insulin .
This is especially important if you use more than 1 type of insulin .
• Check the insulin to make sure it is clear and colorless .
Do not use ADMELOG if it is colored or cloudy , or if you see particles in the solution .
• Do not use ADMELOG after the expiration date stamped on the label or 28 days after you first use it .
• Always use a syringe that is marked for U - 100 insulin .
If you use a syringe other than a U - 100 insulin syringe , you may get the wrong dose of insulin .
• Always use a new syringe or needle for each injection to help ensure sterility and prevent blocked needles .
Do not reuse or share your syringes or needles with other people .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Step 1 : If you are using a new vial , remove the protective cap .
Do not remove the stopper .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Wipe the top of the vial with an alcohol swab .
You do not have to shake the vial of ADMELOG before use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Draw air into the syringe equal to your insulin dose .
Put the needle through the rubber top of the vial and push the plunger to inject the air into the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Leave the syringe in the vial and turn both upside down .
Hold the syringe and vial firmly in one hand .
Make sure the tip of the needle is in the insulin .
With your free hand , pull the plunger to withdraw the correct dose into the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Before you take the needle out of the vial , check the syringe for air bubbles .
If bubbles are in the syringe , hold the syringe straight up and tap the side of the syringe until the bubbles float to the top .
Push the bubbles out with the plunger and draw insulin back in until you have the correct dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Remove the needle from the vial .
Do not let the needle touch anything .
You are now ready to inject .
Giving your ADMELOG injection with a syringe • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• ADMELOG starts acting fast , so give your injection within 15 minutes before or right after you eat a meal .
Step 7 : • Choose your injection site : ADMELOG is injected under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your upper arms , thighs , buttocks , or stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in the skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wipe the skin with an alcohol swab to clean the injection site .
Let the injection site dry before you inject your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : • Pinch the skin .
• Insert the needle in the way your healthcare provider showed you .
• Release the skin .
• Slowly push in the plunger of the syringe all the way , making sure you have injected all the insulin .
• Leave the needle in the skin for about 10 seconds .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : • Pull the needle straight out of your skin .
• Gently press the injection site for several seconds .
Do not rub the area .
• Do not recap the used needle .
Recapping the needle can lead to a needle - stick injury .
Giving your ADMELOG using an insulin pump • ADMELOG should be inserted into an area of your body recommended in the instructions that come with your insulin pump .
• Change your insertion site every 3 days .
• Change ( rotate ) your insertion sites within the area you choose for each insertion to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
Do not insert into the exact same spot for each injection .
Do not insert where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
Do not insert where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
• Change the insulin in the reservoir at least every 7 days , even if you have not used all of the insulin .
• Do not dilute or mix ADMELOG with any other type of insulin in your insulin pump .
• See your insulin pump manual for instructions or talk to your healthcare provider .
Disposing of used needles and syringes • Put your used needles and syringes in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles and syringes in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
How should I store ADMELOG ?
Unopened ( not in - use ) ADMELOG vials • Store unused ADMELOG vials in the refrigerator from 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze ADMELOG .
• Keep ADMELOG away from direct heat and light .
• If a vial has been frozen or overheated , throw it away .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the carton and label if they have been stored in the refrigerator .
• Unopened vials should be thrown away after 28 days if they are stored at room temperature .
After ADMELOG vials have been opened ( in - use ) • Store in - use ( opened ) ADMELOG vials in a refrigerator from 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) or at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) for up to 28 days .
• Do not freeze ADMELOG .
• Keep ADMELOG out of direct heat and light .
• If a vial has been frozen , throw it away .
• The ADMELOG vial you are using should be thrown away after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC , Bridgewater , NJ 08807 , A SANOFI COMPANY ADMELOG is a registered trademark of sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC .
Revised : November 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Instructions for Use ADMELOG ® SoloStar ® ( ad - mah - log ) ( insulin lispro injection ) for subcutaneous use 3 mL single - patient - use prefilled pen ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) Read this first Do not share your ADMELOG SoloStar pen with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection , or get a serious infection from them .
People who are blind or have vision problems should not use ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen without help from a person trained to use ADMELOG SoloStar prefilled pen .
ADMELOG SoloStar is a disposable prefilled pen used to inject ADMELOG .
Each ADMELOG SoloStar has 300 units of insulin which can be used for multiple injections .
You can select doses from 1 to 80 units in steps of 1 unit .
The pen plunger moves with each dose .
The plunger will only move to the end of the cartridge when 300 units of insulin have been given .
Important information • Do not use your pen if it is damaged or if you are not sure that it is working properly .
• Do not use a syringe to remove insulin from your pen .
• Do not reuse needles .
If you do , you might get the wrong dose of ADMELOG and / or increase the chance of getting an infection .
• Always perform a safety test ( see Step 3 ) .
• Always carry a spare pen and spare needles in case they got lost or stop working .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose ( see " Places to inject " ) .
Learn to inject • Talk with your healthcare provider about how to inject before using your pen .
• Ask for help if you have problems handling the pen , for example if you have problems with your sight .
• Read all of these instructions before using your pen .
If you do not follow all of these instructions , you may get too much or too little insulin .
Need help ?
If you have any questions about your pen or about diabetes , ask your healthcare provider , or go to www . Admelog . com or call sanofi - aventis at 1 - 800 - 633 - 1610 .
Extra items you will need : • a new sterile needle ( see Step 2 ) .
• an alcohol swab .
• a puncture - resistant container for used needles and pens .
( See " Throwing your pen away " ) .
Places to inject • Inject your insulin exactly as your healthcare provider has shown you .
• Inject your insulin under the skin ( subcutaneously ) of your upper legs ( thighs ) , upper arms , or stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection sites within the area you choose for each dose to reduce your risk of getting lipodystrophy ( pits in skin or thickened skin ) and localized cutaneous amyloidosis ( skin with lumps ) at the injection sites .
• Do not inject where the skin has pits , is thickened , or has lumps .
• Do not inject where the skin is tender , bruised , scaly or hard , or into scars or damaged skin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Get to know your pen [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Check your pen Take a new pen out of the refrigerator at least 1 hour before you inject .
Cold insulin is more painful to inject .
1 A Check the name and expiration date on the label of your pen .
• Make sure you have the correct insulin .
• Do not use your pen after the expiration date .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 B Pull off the pen cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 C Check that the insulin is clear .
• Do not use the pen if the insulin looks cloudy , colored or contains particles .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 D Wipe the rubber seal with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you have other injector pens : • Making sure you have the correct medicine is especially important if you have other injector pens .
Step 2 : Attach a new needle • Do not reuse needles .
Always use a new sterile needle for each injection .
This helps stop blocked needles , contamination , and infection .
• Only use needles [ 1 ] that are compatible for use with ADMELOG SoloStar , e . g . needles from BD ( such as BD Ultra - Fine ® ) , Ypsomed ( such as Clickfine ® ) , Owen Mumford ( such as Unifine ® Pentips ® ) .
2 A Take a new needle and peel off the protective seal .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 B Keep the needle straight and screw it onto the pen until fixed .
Do not over - tighten .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 C Pull off the outer needle cap .
Keep this for later .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 D Pull off the inner needle cap and throw away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Handling needles : • Take care when handling needles to prevent needle - stick injury and cross - infection .
Step 3 : Do a safety test Always do a safety test before each injection to : • Check your pen and the needle to make sure they are working properly .
• Make sure that you get the correct insulin dose .
3 A Select 2 units by turning the dose selector until the dose pointer is at the 2 mark .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 B Press the injection button all the way in .
• When insulin comes out of the needle tip , your pen is working correctly .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If no insulin appears : • You may need to repeat this step up to 3 times before seeing insulin .
• If no insulin comes out after the third time , the needle may be blocked .
If this happens : • – change the needle ( see Step 6 and Step 2 ) , • – then repeat the safety test ( Step 3 ) .
• Do not use your pen if there is still no insulin coming out of the needle tip .
Use a new pen .
• Do not use a syringe to remove insulin from your pen .
If you see air bubbles : • You may see air bubbles in the insulin .
This is normal , they will not harm you .
Step 4 : Select the dose Do not select a dose or press the injection button without a needle attached .
This may damage your pen .
4 A Make sure a needle is attached and the dose is set to ' 0 ' .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 B Turn the dose selector until the dose pointer lines up with your dose .
• If you turn past your dose , you can turn back down .
• If there are not enough units left in your pen for your dose , the dose selector will stop at the number of units left .
• If you cannot select your full prescribed dose , use a new pen or inject the remaining units and use a new pen to complete your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to read the dose window Even numbers are shown in line with dose pointer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 20 units selected Odd numbers are shown as a line between even numbers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 21 units selected Units of insulin in your pen : • Your pen contains a total of 300 units of insulin .
You can select doses from 1 to 80 units in steps of 1 unit .
Each pen contains more than 1 dose .
• You can see roughly how many units of insulin are left by looking at where the plunger is on the insulin scale .
Step 5 : Inject your dose If you find it hard to press the injection button in , do not force it as this may break your pen .
See the section below for help .
5 A Choose a place to inject as shown in the picture above .
5 B Push the needle into your skin as shown by your healthcare provider .
• Do not touch the injection button yet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 C Place your thumb on the injection button .
Then press all the way in and hold .
• Do not press at an angle .
Your thumb could block the dose selector from turning .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 D Keep the injection button held in and when you see " 0 " in the dose window , slowly count to 10 .
• This will make sure you get your full dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 E After holding and slowly counting to 10 , release the injection button .
Then remove the needle from your skin .
If you find it hard to press the button in : • Change the needle ( see Step 6 and Step 2 ) then do a safety test ( see Step 3 ) .
• If you still find it hard to press in , get a new pen .
• Do not use a syringe to remove insulin from your pen .
Step 6 : Remove the needle • Take care when handling needles to prevent needle - stick injury and cross - infection .
• Do not put the inner needle cap back on .
6 A Grip the widest part of the outer needle cap .
Keep the needle straight and guide it into the outer needle cap .
Then push firmly on .
• The needle can puncture the cap if it is recapped at an angle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 B Grip and squeeze the widest part of the outer needle cap .
Turn your pen several times with your other hand to remove the needle .
• Try again if the needle does not come off the first time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 C Throw away the used needle in a puncture - resistant container ( see " Throwing your pen away " at the end of this Instructions for Use ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 D Put your pen cap back on .
• Do not put the pen back in the refrigerator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to store your pen Before first use • Keep new pens in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use ADMELOG if it has been frozen .
After first use • Keep your pen at room temperature below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
• Keep your pen away from heat or light .
• Store your pen with the pen cap on .
• Do not put your pen back in the refrigerator .
• Do not store your pen with the needle attached .
• Keep out of the reach of children .
• Only use your pen for up to 28 days after its first use .
Throw away the ADMELOG SoloStar pen you are using after 28 days , even if it still has insulin left in it .
How to care for your pen Handle your pen with care • Do not drop your pen or knock it against hard surfaces .
• If you think that your pen may be damaged , do not try to fix it .
Use a new one .
Protect your pen from dust and dirt • You can clean the outside of your pen by wiping it with a damp cloth ( water only ) .
Do not soak , wash or lubricate your pen .
This may damage it .
Throwing your pen away • Put the used ADMELOG SoloStar pen in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the ADMELOG SoloStar pen in your household trash .
• If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of a heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ' s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 A SANOFI COMPANY Revised : November 2019 © 2019 sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC ADMELOG and SoloStar are registered trademarks of sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC .
[ 1 ] The brands listed are the registered trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of sanofi - aventis U . S . LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Vial Carton NDC 0024 - 5924 - 10 Rx ONLY Admelog ® insulin lispro injection 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) For subcutaneous use For intravenous infusion after further dilution ONLY under direct medical supervision One 10 mL Vial SANOFI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mL Pen Carton Rx ONLY NDC 0024 - 5925 - 05 Admelog ® SoloStar ® insulin lispro injection For Single Patient Use Only 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) For subcutaneous use only Do not mix with other insulins Five 3 mL Prefilled Pens Dispense in this sealed carton SANOFI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 3 mL Vial Carton NDC 0024 - 5926 - 05 Rx ONLY Admelog ® insulin lispro injection 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) For subcutaneous use For intravenous infusion after further dilution ONLY under direct medical supervision One 3 mL Vial SANOFI [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
