Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Scope of application : indoor cleaning , external cleaning suppplies . Not suitable for damaged skin and baby ' s delicate skin .
Use Open the adhesive , take out the wipes , paste them at any time after drawing , and wipe the mobile phone , articles , toys , tableware , etc . with paper towels .
Warnings Caution : Pleace keep the wipes out of reach of children to avoid misuse .
This is an insoluble product . Do not throw it into the toilet to avoidblockage .
This product is only used for wiping articles . Avoid contact with eyes or wounds . In case of contact with eyes , please rinse withplenty of water . Use immediately after extraction and closeimmediately . Dry adhesive seal , avoid the effect of liquid volatilization .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • This product contains medical alcohol , effective sterilization , such as Staphyococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , etc . , to protect the health of the whole family .
Selected high - quaility non - woven fabric .
Fast sterilization , only one piece can effectively disinfect and clean , safe and convenient .
Other information • Keep away from heat source , store in a cool and dry place , and avoid direct sunlight .
Inactive ingredients purified water USP , phenoxyethanol Package Label - Principal Display Panel 80 cloth in 1 bag NDC : 52689 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
