1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dactinomycin for injection is an actinomycin indicated for the treatment of : • adult and pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 1 ) • adult and pediatric patients with rhabdomyosarcoma , as part of a multiphase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 2 ) • adult and pediatric patients with Ewing sarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 3 ) • adult and pediatric patients with metastatic , nonseminomatous testicular cancer , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 4 ) • post - menarchal patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia , as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 1 . 5 ) • adult patients with locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies , as a component of palliative or adjunctive regional perfusion .
( 1 . 6 ) 1 . 1 Wilms Tumor Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 2 Rhabdomyosarcoma Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with rhabdomyosarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 3 Ewing Sarcoma Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with Ewing sarcoma , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 4 Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with metastatic , nonseminomatous testicular cancer , as part of a multi - phase , combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 5 Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of post - menarchal patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia , as a single agent or as part of a combination chemotherapy regimen .
1 . 6 Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies Dactinomycin for injection is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies , as a component of palliative or adjunctive regional perfusion .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Wilms Tumor : The recommended dose is 45 mcg / kg intravenously once every 3 to 6 weeks for up to 26 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 1 ) • Rhabdomyosarcoma : The recommended dose is 15 mcg / kg intravenously once daily for 5 days every 3 to 9 weeks for up to 112 weeks , as part of a multiagent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 2 ) • Ewing Sarcoma : The recommended dose is 1250 mcg / m2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 51 weeks , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 3 ) • Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer : The recommended dose is 1000 mcg / m2 intravenously every 3 weeks , as part of cisplatin - based , multi - drug chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 4 ) • Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia : o Non - metastatic and Low - risk Metastatic Disease : The recommended dose is 12 mcg / kg intravenously daily for 5 days , as a single agent .
( 2 . 5 ) oHigh - risk Metastatic Disease : The recommended dose is 500 mcg intravenously on Days 1 and 2 every 2 weeks for up to 8 weeks , as part of a multiagent combination chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 . 5 ) • Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies : oLower Extremity or Pelvis : The recommend dose is 50 mcg / kg once with melphalan .
( 2 . 6 ) oUpper Extremity : The recommended dose is 35 mcg / kg once with melphalan .
( 2 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage for Wilms Tumor The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 45 mcg / kg intravenously once every 3 to 6 weeks for up to 26 weeks .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage for Rhabdomyosarcoma The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 15 mcg / kg intravenously once daily for 5 days every 3 to 9 weeks for up to 112 weeks .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Ewing Sarcoma The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 1 , 250 mcg / m2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 51 weeks .
2 . 4 Recommended Dosage for Metastatic Nonseminomatous Testicular Cancer The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , as part of a cisplatin - based , multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , is 1 , 000 mcg / m2 intravenously once every 3 weeks for 12 weeks .
2 . 5 Recommended Dosage for Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection for nonmetastatic and low - risk metastatic disease is 12 mcg / kg intravenously daily for five days as a single agent .
The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , as part of a multi - agent combination chemotherapy regimen , for high - risk metastatic disease is 500 mcg intravenously on Days 1 and 2 every 2 weeks for up to 8 weeks .
2 . 6 Recommended Dosage for Regional Perfusion in Locally Recurrent and Locoregional Solid Malignancies The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , in combination with melphalan , is 50 mcg / kg once for lower extremity or pelvis .
The recommended dose of dactinomycin for injection , in combination with melphalan , is 35 mcg / kg once for upper extremity .
Calculate the dose for obese or edematous patients based on ideal body weight .
2 . 7 Preparation and Administration o Dactinomycin for injection is a cytotoxic drug .
Follow applicable special handling and disposal procedures . 1 o Visually inspect the vials for particulate matter and discoloration , whenever solution and container permit .
Preparation • Reconstitute each vial by adding 1 . 1 mL of Sterile Water for Injection without preservative using aseptic techniques .
• The reconstituted product should be a clear , gold - colored solution at a concentration of 500 mcg / mL .
• Further dilute the reconstituted product with 5 % Dextrose Injection or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection to yield concentrations greater than 10 mcg / mL .
• Store at room temperature for no more than 4 hours from reconstitution to completion of injection or infusion .
Discard after 4 hours .
• Dactinomycin for injection does not contain a preservative .
Discard any unused portions .
Administration • Administer the diluted reconstituted product intravenously over 10 to 15 minutes .
• Do not use in - line filters with a cellulose ester membrane .
Management of Extravasation • Discontinue dactinomycin for injection for burning or stinging sensation or other evidence indicating perivenous infiltration or extravasation .
• Manage confirmed or suspected extravasation as follows : o Terminate the injection or infusion immediately and restart in another vein .
o Intermittent application of ice to the site for 15 minutes 4 times daily for 3 days [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 500 mcg as a sterile , amorphous yellow to orange , lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
For injection : 500 mcg as a lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia : Increased risk of secondary malignancies following treatment .
( 5 . 1 ) • Veno - occlusive Disease : Can cause severe or fatal VOD .
Monitor for elevations in AST , ALT , total bilirubin , hepatomegaly , weight gain , or ascites .
Consider delaying next dose .
( 5 . 2 ) • Extravasation : Immediately interrupt the injection or infusion and apply ice .
( 2 . 7 , 5 . 3 ) • Myelosuppression : Monitor blood cell counts before each cycle .
Delay next dose if severe myelosuppression has not improved .
( 5 . 4 ) • Immunizations : Vaccination with live viral vaccines is not recommended before or during treatment .
( 5 . 5 ) • Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions : Discontinue treatment ( 5 . 6 ) • Renal Toxicity : Monitor creatinine and electrolytes frequently .
( 5 . 7 ) • Hepatotoxicity : Monitor transaminases , alkaline phosphatase and bilirubin prior to and during treatment .
( 5 . 8 ) • Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall : Reduce dose by 50 % during concomitant radiation .
Use caution when administering within two months of radiation .
( 5 . 9 ) • Embryo - fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise patients of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception .
( 5 . 10 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia The risk of developing secondary malignancies , including leukemia , is increased following treatment with dactinomycin .
5 . 2 Veno - occlusive Disease Severe and fatal hepatic veno - occlusive disease ( VOD ) can occur with dactinomycin .
Risk factors for the development of VOD include age younger than 4 years or concomitant radiotherapy .
After treatment with dactinomycin for injection , monitor frequently for signs and symptoms of VOD ; these include elevations in AST , ALT , total bilirubin , hepatomegaly , weight gain , or ascites .
If patients develop VOD , considering delaying next dose of dactinomycin .
Resume , reduce dose or permanently discontinue based on severity of reaction and disease being treated .
5 . 3 Extravasation Extravasation of dactinomycin for injection can result in severe local tissue injury manifesting as blistering , ulcerations and persistent pain requiring wide excision surgery followed by split - thickness skin grafting .
If any signs or symptoms of extravasation occur , immediately interrupt the injection or infusion .
Apply ice to the site intermittently for 15 minutes , 4 times a day for 3 days [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Observe closely and consult plastic surgery if necessary based on severity of reaction .
5 . 4 Myelosuppression Severe and fatal myelosuppression , which may include neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia , can occur with dactinomycin for injection .
The nadir in neutrophil counts generally occurs 14 to 21 days after administration .
Obtain complete blood counts prior to each treatment cycle .
Delay next dose of dactinomycin for injection if severe myelosuppression has not improved .
Consider dose reduction for patients with prolonged myelosuppression based on severity of reaction and disease being treated .
5 . 5 Immunizations The safety with live viral vaccines following dactinomycin for injection has not been studied and vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended before or during treatment .
5 . 6 Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Severe mucocutaneous reactions , such as Steven - Johnson syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis ( TEN ) , can occur with dactinomycin for injection .
Permanently discontinue dactinomycin for injection in patients who experience a severe mucocutaneous reaction .
5 . 7 Renal Toxicity Abnormalities of renal function can occur with dactinomycin for injection .
Monitor creatinine and electrolytes frequently during dactinomycin for injection therapy .
5 . 8 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity can occur with dactinomycin for injection .
Monitor AST , ALT , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin prior to and during dactinomycin for injection therapy .
5 . 9 Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall Dactinomycin for injection can increase radiation - induced gastrointestinal toxicity , myelosuppression , or erythema and vesiculation of the skin or buccal and pharyngeal mucosa .
Reduce the dose of dactinomycin for injection by 50 % during concomitant radiation .
Radiation recall , affecting previously treated radiation fields , can occur in patients who receive dactinomycin for injection after prior radiation therapy .
Although the risk can occur with distant radiation exposure , the risk appears highest when dactinomycin for injection is administered within two months of prior radiation .
5 . 10 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action , dactinomycin for injection can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of dactinomycin to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis was teratogenic , resulting in malformations at doses lower than the recommended human dose .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin for injection and for at least 6 months after the final dose .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin for injection and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Secondary Malignancy and Leukemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Veno - occlusive Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Extravasation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Myelosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Immunizations [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Renal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Common adverse reactions are : infection , alopecia , rash , dysphagia , fatigue , fever , nausea , vomiting , anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , mucositis , and hepatotoxicity .
The following adverse reactions have been identified in clinical studies or postmarketing reports .
Because some of these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections : infections including sepsis with fatal outcome Hematologic : anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , pancytopenia , reticulocytopenia , neutropenia , febrile neutropenia , disseminated intravascular coagulation Immune system : hypersensitivity Metabolism and nutrition : anorexia , hypocalcemia , tumor lysis syndrome Nervous system : peripheral neuropathy Ocular : optic neuropathy Vascular : thrombophlebitis , hemorrhage Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal : pneumonitis , pneumothorax Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , diarrhea , constipation , gastrointestinal ulceration , cheilitis , dysphagia , esophagitis , ulcerative stomatitis , ascites , proctitis , mucositis Hepatobiliary : liver function test abnormalities , hepatomegaly , hepatitis , hepatic failure with reports of death , hepatic veno - occlusive disease Dermatologic : alopecia , rash , dermatitis , acne , erythema multiforme , Stevens Johnson Syndrome , radiation recall , toxic epidermal necrolysis Musculoskeletal and connective tissue : myalgia , growth retardation Renal and urinary : renal impairment , renal failure General : fatigue , fever , malaise Common adverse reactions are : infection , alopecia , rash , dysphagia , fatigue , fever , nausea , vomiting , anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , mucositis , and hepatotoxicity ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AuroMedics Pharma LLC at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings from animal studies and its mechanism of action dactinomycin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , administration of dactinomycin to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis was teratogenic , resulting in malformations at doses lower than the recommended human dose ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus [ see Use in Special Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Dactinomycin was teratogenic in animals .
Administration of dactinomycin to pregnant rats , rabbits , and hamsters during the period of organogenesis , increased the incidence of fetal malformations and caused embryotoxicity at doses ( based on body surface area ) as low as 0 . 2 times the clinical dose of 1 , 250 mcg / m2 .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of dactinomycin or its metabolites in human milk or their effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from dactinomycin , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with dactinomycin for injection and , based on limited published data regarding the dactinomycin half - life , for 14 days after the final dose .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to initiating dactinomycin [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Dactinomycin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Females Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin and for at least 6 months after the final dose .
Males Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin and for 3 months after the final dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of dactinomycin have been established in pediatric patients with Wilms tumor , rhabdomyosarcoma , Ewing sarcoma , and metastatic nonseminomatous testicular cancer .
The safety and effectiveness of dactinomycin have been established in post - menarchal pediatric patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasia .
The safety and effectiveness of dactinomycin have not been established in pediatric patients undergoing regional perfusion for locally recurrent or locoregional solid malignancies .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of dactinomycin did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
11 DESCRIPTION Dactinomycin USP is one of the actinomycins , a group of antibiotics produced by various species of Streptomyces .
Dactinomycin USP is the principal component of the mixture of actinomycins produced by Streptomyces parvullus .
Unlike other species of Streptomyces , this organism yields an essentially pure substance that contains only traces of similar compounds differing in amino acid content of the peptide side chains .
The empirical formula is C62H86N12O16 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dactinomycin for Injection , USP is a sterile , yellow to orange , lyophilized powder for injection by intravenous route or by regional perfusion after reconstitution .
Each vial contains 0 . 5 mg ( 500 mcg ) of dactinomycin USP and 20 mg of mannitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Dactinomycin is a cytotoxic actinomycin that binds DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis .
The cytotoxic activity of dactinomycin has been demonstrated in animal models of different human cancers .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Dactinomycin exposure - response relationships and the time course of pharmacodynamics response are unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The distribution and excretion of radiolabeled dactinomycin ( 3 H actinomycin D ) were assessed in three adult patients with malignant melanoma .
Distribution 3 H actinomycin D is concentrated in nucleated cells and does not penetrate the blood - brain barrier .
Elimination Excretion Following administration of radiolabeled dactinomycin , approximately 30 % was recovered in urine and feces in one week .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients Published studies and population analyses in patients ≤ 21 years of age with cancer report a trend of increasing systemic dactinomycin clearance with increasing body weight .
Drug Interaction Studies Published in vitro studies report that dactinomycin may be a substrate of the P - glycoprotein and OATP1B3 transporter systems .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Dactinomycin is a carcinogen in animals .
Local sarcomas were produced in mice and rats after repeated subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections .
Mesenchymal tumors occurred in male rats given intraperitoneal injections of 50 mcg / kg , 2 to 5 times per week , for 18 weeks , at doses ( based on body surface area ) 0 . 5 times the clinical dose of 1 , 250 mcg / m2 .
Dactinomycin was mutagenic in several in vitro and in vivo test systems including human fibroblasts and leukocytes , and HeLa cells .
DNA damage and cytogenetic effects have been demonstrated in the mouse and the rat .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Dactinomycin for injection , USP is a lyophilized powder .
In the dry form the compound is an amorphous yellow to orange powder .
The solution is clear , gold or yellow to orange colored and essentially free from visible particles .
Dactinomycin for injection , USP is supplied in vials containing 0 . 5 mg ( 500 micrograms ) of dactinomycin USP and 20 . 0 mg of mannitol .
NDC 55150 - 431 - 01 : 0 . 5 mg / vial in 2 mL single - dose vial ; individually boxed Storage : Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) ; [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and humidity .
Special Handling : Animal studies have shown dactinomycin to be corrosive to skin , irritating to the eyes and mucous membranes of the respiratory tract and highly toxic by the oral route .
It has also been shown to be carcinogenic , mutagenic , embryotoxic and teratogenic .
Due to the drug ’ s toxic properties , appropriate precautions including the use of appropriate safety equipment are recommended for the preparation of dactinomycin for injection for parenteral administration .
Inhalation of dust or vapors and contact with skin or mucous membranes , especially those of the eyes , must be avoided .
Avoid exposure during pregnancy .
The National Institutes of Health presently recommends that the preparation of injectable antineoplastic drugs should be performed in a Class II laminar flow biological safety cabinet .
Personnel preparing drugs of this class should wear chemical resistant , impervious gloves , safety goggles , outer garments and shoe covers .
Additional body garments should be used based upon the task being performed ( e . g . , sleevelets , apron , gauntlets , disposable suits ) to avoid exposed skin surfaces and inhalation of vapors and dust .
Appropriate techniques should be used to remove potentially contaminated clothing .
Several other guidelines for proper handling and disposal of antineoplastic drugs have been published and should be considered . 1 - 4 Accidental Contact Measures : Should accidental eye contact occur , copious irrigation for at least 15 minutes with water , normal saline or a balanced salt ophthalmic irrigating solution should be instituted immediately , followed by prompt ophthalmologic consultation .
Should accidental skin contact occur , the affected part must be irrigated immediately with copious amounts of water for at least 15 minutes while removing contaminated clothing and shoes .
Medical attention should be sought immediately .
Contaminated clothing should be destroyed and shoes cleaned thoroughly before reuse ( see PRECAUTIONS , General and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Preparation of Solution for Intravenous Administration ) .
The vial stopper is not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Secondary Malignancy or Leukemia Advise patients of the increased risk of secondary malignancies [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Veno - occlusive Disease Advise patients about the symptoms of VOD and to seek medical attention if they develop new onset jaundice , abdominal distention , or right upper quadrant pain [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Myelosuppression Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for any signs or symptoms of myelosuppression or infection [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Severe Mucocutaneous Reactions Advise patients of the risk of severe mucocutaneous reactions and to contact their health care provided for new skin lesions , mouth sores or oropharyngeal lesions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Toxicity or Hepatotoxicity Advise patients of the need for periodic laboratory testing to monitor for renal toxicity and hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) ] .
Potentiation of Radiation Toxicity and Radiation Recall Advise patients of the risk of increased radiation - induced gastrointestinal , myelosuppression and skin toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females to inform their healthcare provider of a known or suspected pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin and for 6 months after final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Advise male patients with female partners of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with dactinomycin and for 3 months after final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Lactation Advise females not to breastfeed during treatment with dactinomycin and for 14 days after the final dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : AuroMedics Pharma LLC 279 Princeton - Hightstown Rd .
E . Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited Bangalore , India Revised : November 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mcg ( 0 . 5 mg ) / vial - Container Label NDC 55150 - 431 - 01 Dactinomycin for Injection , USP 500 mcg ( 0 . 5 mg ) / vial Lyophilized - For Preparation of Intravenous Solutions CAUTION : CYTOTOXIC AGENT Rx only Single - Dose Vial [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mcg ( 0 . 5 mg ) / vial - Container - Carton NDC 55150 - 431 - 01 Dactinomycin for Injection , USP 500 mcg ( 0 . 5 mg ) / vial For Preparation of Intravenous Solutions CAUTION : CYTOTOXIC AGENT Lyophilized Rx only Single - Dose Vial AUROMEDICS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
