FOR EXTERNAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Desoximetasone Ointment USP , 0 . 25 % contains the active synthetic corticosteroid desoximetasone .
The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Each gram of Desoximetasone Ointment USP , 0 . 25 % contains 2 . 5 mg of desoximetasone in a base consisting of white petrolatum and medium chain triglycerides .
The chemical name of desoximetasone is : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 21 - dihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Desoximetasone has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical corticosteroids share anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive actions .
The mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear .
Various laboratory methods , including vasoconstrictor assays , are used to compare and predict potencies and / or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids .
There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with Desoximetasone Ointment , USP 0 . 25 % with tagged desoximetasone showed no detectable level ( limit of sensitivity : 0 . 003 μg / mL ) in 1 subject and 0 . 004 and 0 . 006 μg / mL in the remaining 2 subjects in the blood when it was applied topically on the back followed by occlusion for 24 hours .
The extent of absorption for the ointment was 7 % based on radioactivity recovered from urine and feces .
Seven days after application , no further radioactivity was detected in urine or feces .
Studies with other similarly structured steroids have shown that predominant metabolite reaction occurs through conjugation to form the glucuronide and sulfate ester .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Desoximetasone Ointment , 0 . 25 % is indicated for the relief of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS Desoximetasone Ointment 0 . 25 % is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions that augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area or under an occlusive dressing should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity ( See PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatologic infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
Patients should be advised not to use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged or otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions , especially under occlusive dressing , to the physician .
• 5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use tight - fitting diapers or plastic pants on a child being treated in the diaper area , as these garments may constitute occlusive dressings .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating HPA axis suppression : Urinary free cortisol test ACTH stimulation test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of desoximetasone .
Desoximetasone was nonmutagenic in the Ames test .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Desoximetasone has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice , rats , and rabbits when given by subcutaneous or dermal routes of administration in doses 3 to 30 times the human dose of Desoximetasone Ointment , 0 . 25 % .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , Desoximetasone Ointment , 0 . 25 % should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in breast milk .
Systemically administered corticosteroids are secreted into breast milk in quantities not likely to have a deleterious effect on the infant .
Nevertheless , caution should be exercised when topical corticosteroids are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Administration of topical corticosteroids to children should be limited to the least amount compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Safety and effectiveness of Desoximetasone Ointment , 0 . 25 % in children below the age of 10 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied corticosteroids can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of Desoximetasone Ointment , 0 . 25 % to the affected skin area twice daily .
Rub in gently .
HOW SUPPLIED Desoximetasone Ointment USP , 0 . 25 % is supplied in 15 g tubes NDC 0168 - 0151 - 15 60 g tubes NDC 0168 - 0151 - 60 Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
• E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of FOUGERA PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 400004 A R09 / 11 # 134 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 gram TUBE NDC 0168 - 0151 - 60 Fougera ® DESOXIMETASONE OINTMENT USP 0 . 25 % FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
Rx only Each gram contains 2 . 5 mg desoximetasone USP in a base consisting of white petrolatum and medium chain triglycerides .
NET WT 60 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 60 gram CARTON NDC 0168 - 0151 - 60 Fougera ® DESOXIMETASONE OINTMENT USP 0 . 25 % Rx only WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
NET WT 60 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
