Drug Facts Active ingredient Step One ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step Two ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step Three ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Uses Reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• an allergy to adhesive tape or skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • do not smoke even when not wearing the patch .
The nicotine in your skin will still be entering your bloodstream for several hours after you take off the patch .
• if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances , remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or your skin swells , or you get a rash • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose , such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness , and rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
Directions • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • before using this product , read the enclosed self - help guide for complete directions and other information • begin using the patch on your quit day • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use the following schedule below : Weeks 1 thru 4 Weeks 5 and 6 Weeks 7 and 8 STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 use one 21 mg patch / day use one 14 mg patch / day use one 7 mg patch / day • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with Step 2 for 6 weeks , then Step 3 for 2 weeks • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean , and hairless • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Save pouch to use for patch disposal .
Dispose of used patch by folding sticky ends together and putting in pouch .
• the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • if you have vivid dreams , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • do not wear more than one patch at a time • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • it is important to complete treatment .
If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information Store at 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acrylate adhesive , polyester , silicone adhesive Comments or questions ?
1 - 844 - 562 - 7963 TO INCREASE YOUR SUCCESS IN QUITTING : 1 .
You must be motivated to quit .
2 .
Use one patch daily according to directions .
3 .
It is important to complete treatment .
4 .
If you feel you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
5 .
Use patch with a behavioral support program such as the one described in the enclosed booklet .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - STEP ONE 21 mg CARTON Principal Display Panel - Step 1 – 21 mg Carton Label McKesson SunMark ® NDC 70677 - 0032 - 1 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 21 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 21 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - STEP TWO 14 mg CARTON Principal Display Panel - Step 2 – 14 mg Carton Label McKesson SunMark ® NDC 70677 - 0031 - 1 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 14 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 14 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - STEP THREE 7 mg CARTON Principal Display Panel - Step 3 – 7 mg Carton Label McKesson SunMark ® NDC 70677 - 0030 - 1 COMPARE TO THE ACTIVE INGREDIENT IN HABITROL ® * Clear Nicotine Transdermal System 7 mg delivered over 24 hours STOP SMOKING AID 7 mg Includes Behavior Support Program with Self - Help Guide STEP ONE If you smoke MORE than 10 cigarettes per day : Start with Step 1 If you smoke 10 or LESS cigarettes per day : Start with Step 2 14 Patches * Habitrol ® is a registered trademark of Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
