ACTIVE INGREDIENT ALCOHOL 75 . 0 w % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Water , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Oil , Butylene Glycol , Aloe Barbadensis Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Oil , Sodium Benzoate , Hexylene Glycol , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Extract PURPOSE SANITIZER WARNINGS 1 .
Do not use on body parts such as : Around the eyes and ears , inside of the mouth , broad areas of the body or damaged skin ( can cause irritation ) 2 .
Stop using immediately and consult your doctor or pharmacist if any of the following symptoms occur : 1 ) Rash , redness , itchiness , edema , or other hypersensitivities 2 ) Skin irritation 3 .
Other precautions when using 1 ) Only for external use ( do not ingest ) .
2 ) Keep away from the eyes and rinse thoroughly with clean water before consulting your doctor or pharmacist when it gets in your eyes .
3 ) When applying broadly or for long periods of time , do not breathe in the product vapor excessively ( irritation on the mucous membrane or a headache may occur when ethanol vapor is breathed in excessive amounts or repetitively ) .
4 ) Be careful of rough skin caused by fat removal when applying repetitively on the same area .
5 ) Do not use on occlusive dressing , cast , or pack , for it may cause irritation .
6 ) Do not use on the anus or vagina , for it may cause chemical burns .
7 ) Do not use for anything other than the designated purposes .
4 .
Precautions for storing 1 ) Avoid fires and store away from direct sunlight .
2 ) Keep away from children and go to the hospital immediately in case of ingestion .
3 ) Close the lid completely so that the product does not dry out or foreign materials cannot enter .
4 ) Keep in the original container , for removing and storing the product in another container can cause decreased functions or accidents due to misuse .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep away from children and go to the hospital immediately in case of ingestion .
Uses Sanitization of hands , skin , etc .
Directions ■ Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping ■ Do not flush ■ Children under 2 years ask a doctor before use Other lnformation ■ Read the directions and warnings before use ■ Store between 15 - 30 ℃ ( 59 - 89 ℉ ) ■ Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ℃ ( 104 ℉ ) PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
