Active ingredient Purpose Benzoyl Peroxide 5 % Acne treatment Uses For the treatment of acne Helps prevent new acne blemishes Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if : irritation becomes severe Warnings For external use only When using this product - Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use antoher topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs only use only one topical acne medication at a time .
- Avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen - Avoid contact with with the eyes lips and mouth - Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product - Skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
- Do not use if you : Have very sensitive skin Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide Directions Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying this product cover the entire with a thin layer one to three times daily Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day If going outside apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua , Eau ) , Pentylene Glycol , Hydroxyethyl Acrylates / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Squalene , Polysorbate 60 , Aloe Bardadensis ( Aloe ) Leaf Juice powder , Phytic Acid , Phyenoxyethanol , Potassium Sorbate , Disodium EDTA .
Bioelements Breakout control 5 % benzoyl peroxide acne treatment invisibly spot treats to clear acne breakouts 29 mL / 1 Fl .
Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
