ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Salicylic Acid 0 . 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Alcohol Denat , Water , Propylene Glycol , Lactic Acid , Isopropyl Alcohol , Urea , Glycolic Acid , hydroxypropylcellulose , Betaine , Potassium Hydroxide , PEG - 60 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Menthol , Salicylic Acid , Fragrance , Disodium EDTA , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Viola Tricolor Extract , Chrysanthemum Morifolium Flower Extract , Prunus Serrulata Flower Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Melissa officinalis Leaf Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Aspalathus linearis Leaf Extract , Jasminum Officinale ( Jasmine ) Flower Water , Coix Lacryma - Jobi Ma - yuen Seed Extract , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Seed Extract , Triticum Vulgare ( Wheat ) Seed Extract , Oryza Sativa ( Rice ) Extract , Phaseolus Radiatus Seed Extract , Zea Mays ( Corn ) Kernel Extract , Cnidium Officinale Root Extract , Coptis Japonica Root Extract , Ganoderma Lucidum ( Mushroom ) Extract , Phellinus Linteus Extract , Rheum Palmatum Root Extract , Laminaria Japonica Extract , Chlorella Vulgaris Extract , Acer Saccharum ( Sugar Maple ) Extract , Citrus Aurantium Dulcis ( Orange ) Fruit Extract , Saccharum Officinarum ( Sugar Cane ) Extract , Citrus Limon ( Lemon ) Fruit Extract PURPOSE Purpose : Foot exfoliating mask WARNINGS Warnings : For external use only .
1 .
If the following symptoms arise upon use of the cosmetic product , immediately discontinue use and consult a dermatologist , for continued use may aggravate the symptoms .
A . Redness , swelling , itchiness , stimulation , or other symptoms B . Occurrence of the above symptoms upon exposure to direct sunlight .
2 .
Do not use on areas with wounds , eczema , or dermatitis .
3 .
Caution for treatment and keeping .
A . Use immediately upon opening .
B . Keep it out of infants of children ' s reach .
C . Do not store in areas with extreme heat or cold , or under direct sunlight .
4 .
Avoid the eye , nose and mouth area 5 .
First - time user should test on the skin by applying a small amount to a small area of the skin .
This product is exclusively for foot use .
6 .
Contain Salicylic Acid .
Do not use on children under 3 years old due to possible skin irritation .
7 .
This Product contains highly - concentrated AHA , so a consultation with a dermatologist is required before use .
8 .
This product contains Propylene Glycol , so people who are sensitive to this substance of have a medical history of an allergic reaction to this substance should be cautious when using this product KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep it out of infants of children ' s reach .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Indications & Usage : Get rid of dull and dead skin on the foot How to use : 1 .
Cut the center line of the Foot peeling mask with scissors after washing the foot .
2 .
Wear the foot peeling masks on both feet and tight the gloves by sticker strap .
3 .
Take off the socks after one and half hours .
4 .
wash the feet gently with water .
After 4 ~ 5 days , the dirty skin starts to peel off .
In 10 ~ 14 days , all the rough and dirty foot skin is removed .
( Recommendable Use Time : 1 . 5 hour ) * The peeling effect may depend on each person ’ s condition and please keep the recommendable use hour .
It may get the skin hurt in case of excess of the recommendable hour .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Dosage & Administration : Use once a month .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
