Warnings and Precautions , Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 2 ) 04 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OLUX Foam is a corticosteroid indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and mild to moderate plaque psoriasis of non - scalp regions of the body excluding the face and intertriginous areas in patients 12 years and older .
OLUX Foam is a corticosteroid indicated for treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and mild to moderate plaque psoriasis of non - scalp regions of the body excluding the face and intertriginous areas in patients 12 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of OLUX Foam to the affected skin areas twice daily .
OLUX Foam is a super - high - potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , limit treatment to 2 consecutive weeks .
Patients should not use greater than 50 grams per week or more than 21 capfuls per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
OLUX Foam should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
OLUX Foam is for topical use only .
It is not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Wash hands after each application .
Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
• • Apply a thin layer to the affected skin areas twice daily .
( 2 ) • • Limit treatment to 2 consecutive weeks .
( 2 ) • • Do not use more than 50 grams per week or more than 21 capfuls per week .
( 2 ) • • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
( 2 ) • • Do not use with occlusive dressings unless directed by physician .
( 2 ) • • Avoid use on the face , groin , or axillae , or if skin atrophy is present at the treatment site .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Olux ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP per gram .
• • Foam , 0 . 05 % ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
• • None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • OLUX Foam can cause reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency during and after withdrawal of treatment .
Risk factors include the use of high - potency topical corticosteroid , use over a large surface area or to areas under occlusion , prolonged use , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and use in pediatric patients .
Modify use should HPA axis suppression develop .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • • OLUX Foam may increase the risk of cataract and glaucoma .
If visual symptoms occur , consider referral to an ophthalmologist .
( 5 . 2 ) • • OLUX Foam is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Effects on Endocrine System OLUX Foam can cause reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency .
This may occur during treatment or after withdrawal of treatment .
Factors that predispose a patient to HPA axis suppression include the use of high - potency steroids , large treatment surface areas , prolonged use , use of occlusive dressings , altered skin barrier , liver failure , and young age .
Evaluation for HPA axis suppression may be done by using the adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) stimulation test .
In a trial evaluating the effects of OLUX Foam on the HPA axis , 13 subjects applied OLUX Foam to at least 20 % of involved body surface area for 14 days .
HPA axis suppression was identified in 5 out of 13 subjects ( 38 % ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
If HPA axis suppression is documented , gradually withdraw the drug , reduce the frequency of application , or substitute with a less potent corticosteroid .
Cushing ’ s syndrome and hyperglycemia may also occur due to the systemic effects of the topical corticosteroid .
These complications are rare and generally occur after prolonged exposure to excessively large doses , especially of high - potency topical corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Use of topical corticosteroids , including OLUX Foam , may increase the risks of glaucoma and posterior subcapsular cataract .
Glaucoma and cataracts have been reported in postmarketing experience with the use of topical corticosteroid products , including topical clobetasol products .
Avoid contact of OLUX Foam with eyes .
Advise patients to report any visual symptoms and consider referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation .
5 . 3 Allergic Contact Dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
5 . 4 Flammable Contents OLUX Foam is flammable .
Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • • Effects on Endocrine System [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 4 % ) are application site burning and other application site reactions .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In a controlled clinical trial involving 188 subjects with psoriasis of the scalp , there were no localized scalp adverse reactions reported in the subjects treated with OLUX Foam .
In 2 controlled clinical trials with OLUX Foam in 360 subjects with psoriasis of non - scalp regions , localized adverse events that occurred in the subjects treated with OLUX Foam included application site burning ( 10 % ) , application site dryness ( < 1 % ) , and other application site reactions ( 4 % ) .
In larger controlled trials with other clobetasol propionate formulations , the most frequently reported local adverse reactions have included burning , stinging , irritation , pruritus , erythema , folliculitis , cracking and fissuring of the skin , numbness of the fingers , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia ( all less than 2 % ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Local adverse reactions to topical corticosteroids may include : striae , itching , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , hypertrichosis , and miliaria .
Ophthalmic adverse reactions may include : cataracts , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and central serous chorioretinopathy .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on OLUX Foam use in pregnant women to inform of a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Published data report a significantly increased risk of low birthweight with the use of greater than 300 grams of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid during a pregnancy .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible ( see Data ) .
In animal reproduction studies , increased malformations , such as cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities , were observed after subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate to pregnant mice and rabbits .
No comparison of animal exposure with human exposure was computed .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Multiple observational studies found no significant associations between maternal use of topical corticosteroids of any potency and congenital malformations , preterm delivery , or fetal mortality .
However , when the dispensed amount of potent or very potent topical corticosteroid exceeded 300 g during the entire pregnancy , use was associated with an increase in low birth weight infants [ adjusted RR , 7 . 74 ( 95 % CI , 1 . 49 – 40 . 11 ) ] .
In addition , a small cohort study , in which 28 sub - Saharan women using potent topical corticosteroids ( 27 / 28 used clobetasol propionate 0 . 05 % ) for skin lightening during pregnancy , noted a higher incidence of low birth weight infants in the exposed group .
The majority of exposed subjects treated large areas of the body ( a mean quantity of 60 g / month ( range , 12 – 170 g ) over long periods of time .
Animal Data Embryofetal development studies conducted with clobetasol propionate in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and malformations at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
Malformations seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In an embryofetal development study in rabbits , subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate resulted in malformations at doses of 0 . 003 and 0 . 01 mg / kg .
Malformations seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of clobetasol propionate in breast milk or its effects on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and can suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of clobetasol propionate could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for OLUX Foam and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from OLUX Foam or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations To minimize potential exposure to the breastfed infant via breast milk , use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply OLUX Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of OLUX Foam in patients younger than 12 years of age have not been established ; therefore , use in children younger than 12 years is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of systemic toxicity when they are treated with topical drugs .
They are , therefore , also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency upon the use of topical corticosteroids .
Rare systemic toxicities such as Cushing ’ s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients especially those with prolonged exposure to large doses of high potency topical corticosteroids .
Local adverse reactions including striae have also been reported with use of topical corticosteroids in pediatric patients .
Avoid use of OLUX Foam in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of OLUX Foam did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range .
11 DESCRIPTION OLUX ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % , is a white thermolabile hydroethanolic aerosol foam containing the active ingredient , clobetasol propionate , USP , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Clobetasol propionate is 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11ß , 17 - dihydroxy - 16ß - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 - propionate , with the empirical formula C25H32CIFO5 , a molecular weight of 466 . 97 .
The following is the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate is a white or almost white crystalline powder , practically insoluble in water .
Each gram of OLUX Foam contains 0 . 5 mg clobetasol propionate , USP .
The foam also contains cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Corticosteroids play a role in cellular signaling , immune function , inflammation , and protein regulation ; however , the precise mechanism of action in corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a controlled pharmacokinetic trial , 5 of 13 subjects experienced reversible suppression of the adrenals at any time during the 14 days of therapy with OLUX Foam applied to at least 20 % of involved body surface area .
Of the 13 subjects studied , 1 of 9 with psoriasis was suppressed after 14 days and all 4 of the subjects with atopic dermatitis had abnormal cortisol levels indicative of adrenal suppression at some time after starting therapy with OLUX Foam ( See Table 1 below ) .
Table 1 .
Subjects With Reversible HPA Axis Suppression at Any Time During TreatmentDermatosis OLUX Foam Psoriasis 1 of 9 Atopic Dermatitis [ 1 ] 4 of 4 [ 1 ] OLUX Foam is not indicated for non - scalp atopic dermatitis , as the safety and efficacy of OLUX Foam in non - scalp atopic dermatitis has not been established .
Use in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the product formulation and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusion , inflammation , and / or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are metabolized , primarily in the liver , and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted in the bile .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of OLUX Foam or clobetasol propionate .
In a 90 - day repeat - dose toxicity study in rats , topical administration of clobetasol propionate foam at dose concentrations from 0 . 001 % to 0 . 1 % or from 0 . 03 to 0 . 3 mg / kg / day of clobetasol propionate resulted in a toxicity profile consistent with long - term exposure to corticosteroids including adrenal atrophy , histopathological changes in several organ systems indicative of severe immune suppression , and opportunistic fungal and bacterial infections .
A no observable adverse effect level could not be determined in this study .
Although the clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear , sustained glucocorticoid - related immune suppression may increase the risk of infection and possibly the risk for carcinogenesis .
Clobetasol propionate was nonmutagenic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
In the in vivo mouse micronucleus test , a positive finding was observed at 24 hours , but not at 48 hours , following oral administration at a dose of 2 , 000 mg / kg .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration of clobetasol propionate at dosage levels up to 0 . 05 mg / kg per day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Scalp Psoriasis A well - controlled clinical trial evaluated 188 subjects with moderate to severe scalp psoriasis .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with one of 4 treatments : OLUX Foam , vehicle foam , a commercially available clobetasol propionate solution ( TEMOVATE ® Scalp Application ) , or vehicle solution .
The efficacy of OLUX Foam in treating scalp psoriasis at the end of the 2 weeks ' treatment was superior to that of vehicle ( foam and solution ) , and was comparable to that of TEMOVATE Scalp Application ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 .
Efficacy Results From a Controlled Clinical Trial in Scalp Psoriasis OLUX Foam n ( % ) Vehicle Foam n ( % ) Total number of subjects 62 31 Subjects with treatment success [ 1 ] 39 ( 63 ) 1 ( 3 ) Subjects with parameter Clear at endpoint ( scalp psoriasis ) Scaling - Clear at endpoint 42 ( 68 ) 3 ( 10 ) Erythema - Clear at endpoint 27 ( 44 ) 2 ( 6 ) Plaque Thickness - Clear at endpoint 41 ( 66 ) 3 ( 10 ) [ 1 ] Defined as a composite of an Investigator ' s Global Assessment of " completely clear " or " almost clear , " a plaque thickness score of 0 , an erythema score of 0 or 1 , and a scaling score of 0 or 1 at endpoint , scored on a severity scale of 0 to 4 .
14 . 2 Non - scalp Psoriasis Another well - controlled clinical trial evaluated 279 subjects with mild to moderate plaque - type psoriasis ( mean body surface area at baseline was 6 . 7 % with a range from 1 % to 20 % ) of non - scalp regions .
Subjects were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with OLUX Foam or vehicle foam .
The face and intertriginous areas were excluded from treatment .
The efficacy of OLUX Foam in treating non - scalp psoriasis at the end of 2 weeks ' treatment was superior to that of vehicle foam ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 .
Efficacy Results From a Controlled Clinical Trial in Non - scalp Psoriasis OLUX Foam n ( % ) Vehicle Foam n ( % ) Total number of subjects 139 140 Subjects with treatment success [ 1 ] 39 ( 28 ) 4 ( 3 ) Physician ' s Static Global Assessment - Clear or almost clear at endpoint 94 ( 68 ) 30 ( 21 ) Scaling - Clear or almost clear at endpoint 101 ( 73 ) 42 ( 30 ) Erythema - Clear or almost clear at endpoint 88 ( 63 ) 35 ( 25 ) Plaque Thickness - Clear at endpoint 44 ( 32 ) 5 ( 4 ) [ 1 ] Defined as a composite of a Physician ' s Static Global Assessment score of 0 or 1 , scaling score of 0 or 1 , an erythema score of 0 or 1 and a plaque thickness score of 0 , based on a severity scale of 0 to 5 at endpoint .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Olux ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP per gram .
The white aerosol foam is available as follows : NDC 0378 - 8182 - 50 50 g aluminum can NDC 0378 - 8182 - 01 100 g aluminum can 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Effects on Endocrine System OLUX Foam may cause HPA axis suppression .
Advise patients that use of topical corticosteroids , including OLUX Foam , may require periodic evaluation for HPA axis suppression .
Topical corticosteroids may have other endocrine effects .
Concomitant use of multiple corticosteroid - containing products may increase the total systemic exposure to topical corticosteroids .
Patients should inform their physician ( s ) that they are using OLUX Foam if surgery is contemplated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Advise patients to report any visual symptoms to their healthcare providers [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Local Adverse Reactions Report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
Advise patients that local reactions and skin atrophy are more likely to occur with occlusive use or prolonged use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus and to use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise a woman to use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest duration possible while breastfeeding .
Advise breastfeeding women not to apply OLUX Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid direct infant exposure [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Important Administration Instructions Inform patients of the following : • • Avoid use of OLUX Foam on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• • Do not occlude the treatment area with bandage or other covering , unless directed by the physician .
• • Discontinue therapy when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• • For proper dispensing of foam , hold the can upside down and depress the actuator .
Dispensing directly onto hands is not recommended ( unless the hands are the affected area ) , as the foam will begin to melt immediately upon contact with warm skin .
• • Limit treatment to 2 consecutive weeks .
Use no more than 50 grams of OLUX Foam per week , or more than 21 capfuls per week .
• • Avoid use of OLUX Foam in the diaper area , as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing .
• • The product is flammable ; avoid heat , flame , and smoking when applying this product .
• • Do not use other corticosteroid - containing products without first consulting with the physician .
Patient Information OLUX ® ( O - lux ) ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam Important : OLUX Foam is for use on the skin only .
Do not get OLUX Foam in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
What is OLUX Foam ?
OLUX Foam is a prescription corticosteroid medicine used in people 12 years of age and older for the treatment of : • • moderate to severe plaque psoriasis of the scalp and • • mild to moderate plaque psoriasis of the skin except the face and areas where the skin may touch or rub together .
It is not known if OLUX Foam is safe and effective in children under 12 years of age .
OLUX Foam is not recommended in children under 12 years of age .
Before using OLUX Foam , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have had irritation or other skin reaction to a steroid medicine in the past .
• • have a skin infection .
You may need medicine to treat the skin infection before using OLUX Foam .
• • have diabetes .
• • have adrenal gland problems .
• • have liver problems .
• • plan to have surgery .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if OLUX Foam will harm your unborn baby .
If you use OLUX Foam during pregnancy , use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if OLUX passes into your breast milk .
If you use OLUX Foam while breastfeeding , use OLUX Foam on the smallest area of skin and for the shortest time needed .
Do not apply OLUX Foam directly to the nipple and areola to avoid getting OLUX Foam into your baby ’ s mouth .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicine you take including prescription or over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Do not use other products containing a corticosteroid medicine during treatment with OLUX Foam without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should I use OLUX Foam ?
See the “ Instructions for Use ” for detailed information about the right way to apply OLUX Foam .
• • Use OLUX Foam exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• • Apply a thin layer of OLUX Foam to the affected skin areas 2 times each day .
• • Avoid using OLUX Foam on your face , underarms ( armpits ) , groin area , or in areas with thinning skin ( atrophy ) .
• • Avoid using OLUX Foam on skin in a diaper area .
• • Do not bandage or cover your treated area unless your healthcare provider tells you to .
• • Do not use OLUX Foam for longer than 2 weeks in a row .
• • You should not use more than 50 grams or 21 capfuls of OLUX Foam in 1 week .
• • Talk to your healthcare provider if your skin or scalp does not improve after 2 weeks of treatment with OLUX Foam .
• • Wash your hands after using OLUX Foam .
What should I avoid while using OLUX Foam ?
OLUX Foam is flammable .
Avoid heat , flame , or smoking during and right after you apply OLUX Foam to your skin .
What are the possible side effects of OLUX Foam ?
OLUX Foam may cause serious side effects , including : • • OLUX Foam can pass through your skin .
Too much OLUX Foam passing through your skin can cause adrenal glands to stop working .
• • Cushing ’ s syndrome , a condition that happens when the body is exposed to too much of the hormone cortisol .
• • High blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) • • Vision problems .
OLUX Foam may increase your chance of developing vision problems such as cataract ( s ) and glaucoma .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop blurred vision or other vision problems during treatment with OLUX Foam .
• • Skin reactions at the treated skin site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any skin reactions or skin infections .
• • Effects on growth and weight in children .
Your healthcare provider may do certain blood tests to check for side effects .
The most common side effects of OLUX Foam include burning and skin reactions at the treated site .
These are not all the possible side effects of OLUX Foam .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OLUX Foam ?
• • Store OLUX Foam at room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• • Do not break through ( puncture ) the OLUX Foam can .
• • Never throw the can into a fire , even if the can is empty .
• • Do not store OLUX Foam near heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Keep OLUX Foam and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OLUX Foam .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use OLUX Foam for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OLUX Foam to other people , even if they have the same condition that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about OLUX Foam that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in OLUX Foam ?
Active ingredient : clobetasol propionate Inactive ingredients : cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or visit www . olux . com .
Instructions for Use OLUX ® ( O - lux ) ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam Important : OLUX Foam is for use on the skin only .
Do not get OLUX Foam in your eyes , mouth or vagina .
How to apply OLUX Foam : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Remove the cap and save for further use .
Step 2 : Before applying OLUX Foam for the first time , break the tiny plastic piece at the base of the can ’ s rim by gently pushing back ( away from the piece ) on the nozzle .
( see Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Turn the can upside down .
Push the button to dispense a small amount of OLUX Foam into the cap of the can , or on your affected skin area .
( see Figure B ) This amount should be no more than 1 ½ capfuls , about the size of a golf ball .
• • Do not dispense OLUX Foam directly onto your hands ( unless your hands are the affected areas ) , because the foam will begin to melt right away on contact with your warm skin .
• • If your fingers are warm , rinse them in cold water first .
Be sure to dry them thoroughly before handling the foam .
• • If the can seems warm or the foam seems runny , run the can under cold water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Using your fingertips , gently massage a thin layer of OLUX Foam into the affected skin areas until the foam disappears .
( see Figures C and D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : If you are treating areas with hair , such as the scalp , move any hair away so that the foam can be applied directly to the affected areas .
( see Figure E ) • • Repeat until the affected areas are treated .
Keep the foam away from your eyes , as it will sting and may cause eye problems if there is frequent contact with your eyes .
If the foam gets in your eyes , rinse them well with cold water right away .
If the stinging continues , contact your healthcare provider right away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Wash your hands after applying OLUX Foam .
( see Figure F ) • • Throw away any of the unused medicine that you dispensed out of the can .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
For additional information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or visit www . olux . com .
OLUX is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies .
© 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . Revised : 4 / 2018 140969 - 0418 DPT : CLOBFO : R2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 0 . 05 % NDC 0378 - 8182 - 50 Olux ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % Rx only 50 g For Topical Use Only Not for Ophthalmic , Oral , or Intravaginal Use Invert can and then press firmly to dispense .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Description : Olux ® ( clobetasol propionate ) Foam , 0 . 05 % , contains 0 . 5 mg of clobetasol propionate , USP per gram in a thermolabile hydroethanolic foam vehicle consisting of cetyl alcohol , citric acid , ethanol ( 60 % ) , polysorbate 60 , potassium citrate , propylene glycol , purified water , and stearyl alcohol pressurized with a hydrocarbon ( propane / butane ) propellant .
Usual Dosage : Use only as prescribed by your physician .
See accompanying prescribing information .
Warning : FLAMMABLE .
AVOID FIRE , FLAME , OR SMOKING DURING AND IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING APPLICATION .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
CFC FREE DPT : 8182 : 50 : 1 C : R3 117504 - 0518 Manufactured for : Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Morgantown , WV 26505 U . S . A . Manufactured by : DPT Laboratories , Ltd .
San Antonio , TX 78215 U . S . A . For more information , call Mylan at 1 - 877 - 446 - 3679 ( 1 - 877 - 4 - INFO - RX ) or visit olux . com Mylan . com © 2018 Delcor Asset Corporation , a Mylan Company OLUX is a registered trademark of Stiefel Laboratories , Inc . , a GSK Company , exclusively licensed to the Mylan Companies .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
