WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH OPIOIDS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
• • Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
• • Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
• • Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
DESCRIPTION Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide combines in a single capsule formulation the antianxiety action of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and the anticholinergic / spasmolytic effects of clidinium bromide .
Each Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide capsule contains the active ingredients 5 mg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and 2 . 5 mg clidinium bromide .
Each capsule also contains the inactive ingredients corn starch , lactose monohydrate , talc , methylparaben , propylparaben , potassium sorbate , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Green No . 3 , titanium dioxide , and gelatin .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is a versatile , therapeutic agent of proven value for the relief of anxiety and tension .
It is indicated when anxiety , tension or apprehension are significant components of the clinical profile .
It is among the safer of the effective psychopharmacologic compounds .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is 7 - chloro - 2 - methylamino - 5 - phenyl - 3 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepine 4 - oxide hydrochloride .
A colorless , crystalline substance , it is soluble in water .
It is unstable in solution and the powder must be protected from light .
The molecular weight is 336 . 22 .
The structural formula of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clidinium bromide is a synthetic anticholinergic agent which has been shown in experimental and clinical studies to have a pronounced antispasmodic and antisecretory effect on the gastrointestinal tract .
Structurally clidinium bromide is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been studied extensively in many species of animals and these studies are suggestive of action on the limbic system of the brain , which recent evidence indicates is involved in emotional responses .
Hostile monkeys were made tame by oral drug doses , which did not cause sedation .
Chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride revealed a " taming - action with the elimination of fear and aggression " .
The taming effect of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride was further demonstrated in rats made vicious by lesions in the septal area of the brain .
The drug dosage which effectively blocked the vicious reaction was well below the dose which caused sedation in these animals .
The oral LD50 of single doses of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride , calculated according to the method of Miller and Tainter , is 720 ± 51 mg / kg as determined in mice observed over a period of 5 days following dosage .
Clidinium bromide is an effective anticholinergic agent with activity approximating that of atropine sulfate against acetylcholine - induced spasms in isolated intestinal strips .
On oral administration in mice , it proved an effective antisialagogue in preventing pilocarpine - induced salivation .
Spontaneous intestinal motility in both rats and dogs is reduced following oral dosing with 0 . 1 to 0 . 25 mg / kg .
Potent cholinergic ganglionic blocking effects ( vagal ) were produced with intravenous usage in anesthetized dogs .
Oral doses of 2 . 5 mg / kg to dogs produced signs of nasal dryness and slight pupillary dilation .
In two other species , monkeys and rabbits , doses of 5 mg / kg , po , given three times daily for 5 days did not produce apparent secretory or visual changes .
The oral LD50 of single doses of clidinium bromide is 860 ± 57 mg / kg as determined in mice observed over a period of 5 days following dosage ; the calculations were made according to the method of Miller and Tainter .
Effects on Reproduction Reproduction studies in rats fed chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride , 10 , 20 and 80 mg / kg daily , and bred through one or two matings showed no congenital anomalies , nor were there adverse effects on lactation of the dams or growth of the newborn .
However , in another study at 100 mg / kg daily there was noted a significant decrease in the fertilization rate and a marked decrease in the viability and body weight of offspring which may be attributable to sedative activity , thus resulting in lack of interest in mating and lessened maternal nursing and care of the young .
One neonate in each of the first and second matings in the rat reproduction study at the 100 mg / kg dose exhibited major skeletal defects .
Further studies are in progress to determine the significance of these findings .
Two series of reproduction experiments with clidinium bromide were carried out in rats , employing dosages of 2 . 5 and 10 mg / kg daily in each experiment .
In the first experiment , clidinium bromide was administered for a 9 - week interval prior to mating ; no untoward effect on fertilization or gestation was noted .
The offspring were taken by caesarean section and did not show a significant incidence of congenital anomalies when compared to control animals .
In the second experiment , adult animals were given clidinium bromide for 10 days prior to and through two mating cycles .
No significant effects were observed on fertility , gestation , viability of offspring or lactation , as compared to control animals , nor was there a significant incidence of congenital anomalies in the offspring derived from these experiments .
A reproduction study of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide was carried out in rats through two successive matings .
Oral daily doses were administered in two concentrations : 2 . 5 mg / kg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride with 1 . 25 mg / kg clidinium bromide or 25 mg / kg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride with 12 . 5 mg / kg clidinium bromide .
In the first mating , no significant differences were noted between the control or the treated groups , with the exception of a slight decrease in the number of animals surviving during lactation among those receiving the highest dosage .
As with all anticholinergic drugs , an inhibiting effect on lactation may occur .
In the second mating , similar results were obtained except for a slight decrease in the number of pregnant females and in the percentage of offspring surviving until weaning .
No congenital anomalies were observed in both matings in either the control or treated groups .
Additional animal reproduction studies are in progress .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is indicated to control emotional and somatic factors in gastrointestinal disorders .
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may also be used as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer and in the treatment of the irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is contraindicated in the presence of glaucoma ( since the anticholinergic component may produce some degree of mydriasis ) and in patients with prostatic hypertrophy and benign bladder neck obstruction .
It is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and / or clidinium bromide .
WARNINGS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines , including Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide , and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioids alone .
If a decision is made to prescribe Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide concomitantly with opioids , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use , and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is used with opioids ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
As in the case of other preparations containing CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide should be cautioned about possible combined effects with opioids , alcohol and other CNS depressants .
For the same reason , they should be cautioned against hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Usage in Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of minor tranquilizers ( chlordiazepoxide , diazepam and meprobamate ) during the first trimester of pregnancy has been suggested in several studies .
Because use of these drugs is rarely a matter of urgency , their use during this period should almost always be avoided .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physicians about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
As with all anticholinergic drugs , an inhibiting effect on lactation may occur ( see ANIMAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride overdosage include somnolence , confusion , coma and diminished reflexes .
Respiration , pulse and blood pressure should be monitored , as in all cases of drug overdosage , although , in general , these effects have been minimal following chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride overdosage .
While the signs and symptoms of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide overdosage may be produced by either of its components , usually such symptoms will be overshadowed by the anticholinergic actions of clidinium bromide .
The symptoms of overdosage of clidinium bromide are excessive dryness of mouth , blurring of vision , urinary hesitancy and constipation .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with immediate gastric lavage .
Administer physostigmine 0 . 5 to 2 mg at a rate of no more than 1 mg per minute .
This may be repeated in 1 to 4 mg doses if arrhythmias , convulsions or deep coma recur .
Intravenous fluids should be administered and an adequate airway maintained .
Hypotension may be combated by the use of levarterenol or metaraminol .
Methylphenidate or caffeine and sodium benzoate may be given to combat CNS - depressive effects .
Dialysis is of limited value .
Should excitation occur , barbiturates should not be used .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
PRECAUTIONS In debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia , oversedation or confusion ( not more than 2 Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide capsules per day initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
In general , the concomitant administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide and other psychotropic agents is not recommended .
If such combination therapy seems indicated , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed — particularly when the known potentiating compounds such as the MAO inhibitors and phenothiazines are to be used .
The usual precautions in treating patients with impaired renal or hepatic function should be observed .
Paradoxical reactions to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride , e . g . , excitement , stimulation and acute rage , have been reported in psychiatric patients and should be watched for during Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide therapy .
The usual precautions are indicated when chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride is used in the treatment of anxiety states where there is any evidence of impending depression ; it should be borne in mind that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
Although clinical studies have not established a cause and effect relationship , physicians should be aware that variable effects on blood coagulation have been reported very rarely in patients receiving oral anticoagulants and chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride .
Information for Patients Inform patients and caregivers that potentially fatal additive effects may occur if Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is used with opioids or other CNS depressants , including alcohol , and not to use these concomitantly unless supervised by a healthcare provider ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
Drug Interactions The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration .
Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors .
When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined , the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid - related respiratory depression exists .
Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids , and follow patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Geriatric subjects may be particularly prone to experiencing drowsiness , ataxia and confusion while receiving Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
These effects can usually be avoided with proper dosage adjustment , although they have occasionally been observed even at the lower dosage ranges .
Dosing in geriatric subjects should be initiated cautiously ( no more than 2 capsules per day ) and increased gradually if needed and tolerated ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is contraindicated in the presence of glaucoma , prostatic hypertrophy and benign bladder neck obstruction ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No side effects or manifestations not seen with either compound alone have been reported with the administration of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
However , since Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide contains chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide , the possibility of untoward effects which may be seen with either of these two compounds cannot be excluded .
When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride has been used alone the necessity of discontinuing therapy because of undesirable effects has been rare .
Drowsiness , ataxia and confusion have been reported in some patients — particularly the elderly and debilitated .
While these effects can be avoided in almost all instances by proper dosage adjustment , they have occasionally been observed at the lower dosage ranges .
In a few instances syncope has been reported .
Other adverse reactions reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride include isolated instances of skin eruptions , edema , minor menstrual irregularities , nausea and constipation , extrapyramidal symptoms , as well as increased and decreased libido .
Such side effects have been infrequent and are generally controlled with reduction of dosage .
Changes in EEG patterns ( low - voltage fast activity ) have been observed in patients during and after chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment .
Blood dyscrasias , including agranulocytosis , jaundice and hepatic dysfunction have occasionally been reported during therapy with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride .
When chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride treatment is protracted , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable .
Adverse effects reported with use of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide are those typical of anticholinergic agents , i . e . , dryness of the mouth , blurring of vision , urinary hesitancy and constipation .
Constipation has occurred most often when Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide therapy has been combined with other spasmolytic agents and / or a low residue diet .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol ( convulsions , tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating ) , have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of chlordiazepoxide .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving chlordiazepoxide or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Because of the varied individual responses to tranquilizers and anticholinergics , the optimum dosage of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide varies with the diagnosis and response of the individual patient .
The dosage , therefore , should be individualized for maximum beneficial effects .
The usual maintenance dose is 1 or 2 capsules , 3 or 4 times a day administered before meals and at bedtime .
Geriatric Dosing Dosage should be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia , oversedation or confusion .
The initial dose should not exceed 2 Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide capsules per day , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated .
HOW SUPPLIED Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is available in light green opaque capsules , each containing 5 mg chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and 2 . 5 mg clidinium bromide , in bottles of 100 ( NDC 42494 - 409 - 01 ) , with LIBRAX ® ICN imprinted on the body of the capsule .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in USP / NF .
Distributed by : Cameron Pharmaceuticals Louisville , KY 40245 USA Manufactured by : Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc .
Steinbach , MB R5G 1Z7 Canada Librax is a trademark of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc .
or its affiliates .
© Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC 9542102 20001848 Revised : 04 / 2017 Medication Guide Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide capsules What is the most important information I should know about Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
• • Do not stop taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide suddenly can cause serious side effects .
• • Taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
• • Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide affects you .
• • Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
• • Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide can cause abuse and dependence .
• • Do not stop taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide all of a sudden .
Stopping Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide suddenly can cause seizures , shaking , stomach and muscle cramps , vomiting and sweating .
• • Physical dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical dependence and drug addiction .
What is Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
• • Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is a prescription medicine that is used with other therapies for the treatment of : • • stomach ( peptic ) ulcers • • irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) • • inflammation of the colon called acute enterocolitis • • Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide contains the medicines chlordiazepoxide HCl and clidinium bromide .
• • Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may harm others .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
• • It is not known if Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide is safe and effective in children .
Do not take Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide if you : • • have glaucoma • • have an enlarged prostate • • have a blockage of your bladder that causes problems with urination • • are allergic to chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride or clidinium bromide Before you take Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have eye problems • • have problems urinating or emptying your bladder • • have coordination problems • • have kidney or liver problems • • have a history of depression , mental illness , or suicidal thoughts • • have a history of drug or alcohol abuse or addiction • • have bleeding problems • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may harm your unborn baby .
Avoid taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant during treatment with Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may pass through your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may decrease the amount of breast milk your body makes .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you : • • take a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) medicine or an anti - psychotic medicine called phenothiazine .
How should I take Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
• • Take Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• • Your healthcare provider may change your dose of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide if needed .
Do not change your dose of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide or suddenly stop taking Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide without talking with your healthcare provider .
• • If you take too much Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide may cause serious side effects , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ? "
The most common side effects of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide include : • • dry mouth • • nausea • • skin problems • • blurred vision • • constipation • • swelling • • irregular menstrual ( periods ) cycles • • increased and decreased desire for sex ( libido ) • • problems starting to urinate • • drowsiness , coordination problems , and confusion may happen , especially in people who are elderly or weak These are not all the possible side effects of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
• • Store Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide at room temperature 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide ?
Active ingredient : chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide Inactive ingredients : corn starch , lactose and talc .
Gelatin capsule shells may contain methylparaben , propylparaben , and potassium sorbate , with the following dye systems : D & C Yellow No . 10 and FD & C Green No . 3 .
Distributed by : Cameron Pharmaceuticals Louisville , KY 40245 USA Manufactured by : Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc .
Steinbach , MB R5G 1Z7 Canada Librax is a trademark of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International , Inc . or its affiliates .
© Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC For more information , go to www . valeant . com or contact Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 04 / 2017 9542102 20001848 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42494 - 409 - 01 Rx only Chlordiazepoxide HCl / Clidinium Bromide Capsules 5 mg / 2 . 5 mg MEDICATION GUIDE TO BE DISPENSED WITH EACH PRESCRIPTION 100 Capsules CAMERON PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
