Active Ingredients Lidocaine 4 % . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Topical Anesthetic Purpose Temporarily relieves minor pain .
Dosage and Administration Directions Adults and children over 12 years : ■ clean and dry affected area ■ remove backing from patch by firmly grasping both ends and gently pulling until backing separates in middle ■ carefully remove smaller portion of backing from patch and apply exposed portion of patch to affected area ■ once exposed portion of patch is positioned , carefully remove remaining backing to completely apply patch to affected area ■ use one patch for up to 12 hours .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Warnings For external use only .
Idications and Usage Uses : Temporaily relieves minor pains .
When using this product ■ use only as directed ■ read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton ■ do not allow contact with the eyes ■ do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics ■ do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use ■ do not microwave ■ dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and consult a doctor ■ condition worsens ■ redness is present ■ irritation develops ■ symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days ■ you experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling or blistering where the product was applied .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not Use ■ more than one patch on your body at a time ■ on cut , irritated or swollen skin ■ on puncture wounds ■ for more than one week without consulting a doctor ■ if you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients ■ if pouch is damaged or opened .
Keep out of reach of children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Safety Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
Inactive Ingredients Aluminum Glycinate , Glycerin , Kaolin , Methylparaben , Polyacrylic Acid , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , PVP , Sodium Polyacrylate , Tartaric Acid , Titanium Dioxide , Water Questions TOLL - FREE Customer Care Help Line 866 - 326 - 1313 Mon – Fri 8 : 30 am – 4 : 30 pm CST DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Made in China Lidocaine Pain Relief Patch Large [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
