Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Shake can well .
Hold can 15 - 20 cm from and then spray .
Do Not use on skin , rayon acetate or satin fabric .
Do not use on brass cooper and prolonged contact with aluminum .
Do not allow prolonged to air dry .
Surfaces may vary in quality - always test for suitablity on a small inconspicuous area prior to use .
Do not use on polished wood painted surface or acrylic plastics .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Liquefied petroleum gas / Sodium Benzoate / trolamine / Chloroxylenol Aerosol , Spray - An aerosol product which utilizes a compressed gas as the propellant to provide the force necessary to expel the product as a wet spray ; it is applicable to solutions of medicinal agents in aqueous solvents .
Aerosol , Spray - An aerosol product which utilizes a compressed gas as the propellant to provide the force necessary to expel the product as a wet spray ; it is applicable to solutions of medicinal agents in aqueous solvents .
Shake can well .
Hold can 15 - 20 cm from and then spray .
Do not use on skin , rayon acetate or statin fabric .
Do not use on brass cooper and prolonged contact with aluminum .
Do not allow prolonged to air dry .
Surfaces may vary in quality - always test for suitability on a small inconspicuous area prior to use .
Do not use on polished wood , painted surface or acrylic plastics .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
