This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : a . Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or ] Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
b . Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
c . Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
d . Sterile distilled water or boiled water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic .
Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria tht potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from flame .
Do not use • In children less than 2 months of age .
• On open skin wounds .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation accurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Avoid freezing and excesive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Glycerin , Hydrogen Peroxide , purified Water USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
