WARNING : NEUROLOGIC ADVERSE REACTIONS Severe neurologic adverse reactions have been reported with the use of nelarabine .
These adverse reactions have included altered mental states including severe somnolence , central nervous system effects including convulsions , and peripheral neuropathy ranging from numbness and paresthesias to motor weakness and paralysis .
There have also been reports of adverse reactions associated with demyelination , and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar in appearance to Guillain - Barr ¡ SR syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Full recovery from these adverse reactions has not always occurred with cessation of therapy with nelarabine .
Monitor frequently for signs and symptoms of neurologic toxicity during treatment with nelarabine .
Discontinue nelarabine for neurologic adverse reactions of NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) Grade 2 or greater [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : NEUROLOGIC ADVERSE REACTIONS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
Severe neurologic adverse reactions have been reported with the use of nelarabine .
These adverse reactions have included altered mental states including severe somnolence , central nervous system effects including convulsions , and peripheral neuropathy ranging from numbness and paresthesias to motor weakness and paralysis .
There have also been reports of adverse reactions associated with demyelination , and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar in appearance to Guillain - Barr ¡ SR syndrome .
( 5 . 1 ) Full recovery from these adverse reactions has not always occurred with cessation of therapy with nelarabine .
Monitor frequently for signs and symptoms of neurologic toxicity .
Discontinue nelarabine for neurologic adverse reactions of NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) Grade 2 or greater .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nelarabine Injection is indicated for the treatment of T - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( T - ALL ) and T - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma ( T - LBL ) in adult and pediatric patients age 1 year and older whose disease has not responded to or has relapsed following treatment with at least two chemotherapy regimens .
Nelarabine is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with T - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and T - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma in adult and pediatric patients age 1 year and older whose disease has not responded to or has relapsed following treatment with at least two chemotherapy regimens .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult Dose : 1 , 500 mg / m administered intravenously over 2 hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 repeated every 21 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric Dose : 650 mg / m administered intravenously over 1 hour daily for 5 consecutive days repeated every 21 days .
( 2 . 1 ) • Discontinue treatment for neurologic reactions greater than or equal to Grade 2 .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage may be delayed for hematologic reactions .
( 2 . 2 ) • Take measures to prevent hyperuricemia .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage This product is for intravenous use only .
Adult Dosage : The recommended adult dose of nelarabine injection is 1 , 500 mg / m administered intravenously over 2 hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 repeated every 21 days .
Administer nelarabine injection undiluted .
Pediatric Dosage : The recommended pediatric dose of nelarabine injection is 650 mg / m administered intravenously over 1 hour daily for 5 consecutive days repeated every 21 days .
Administer nelarabine injection undiluted .
The recommended duration of treatment for adult and pediatric patients has not been clearly established .
In clinical trials , treatment was generally continued until there was evidence of disease progression , the patient experienced unacceptable toxicity , the patient became a candidate for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) , or the patient no longer continued to benefit from treatment .
2 . 2 Dosage Modification Discontinue nelarabine injection if the patient develops a neurologic adverse reaction of NCI CTCAE Grade 2 or greater .
Dosage may be delayed for other toxicity , including hematologic toxicity [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 3 Dosage in Special Populations Nelarabine Injection has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with a creatinine clearance ( CLCr ) greater than or equal to 50 mL / min [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There are insufficient data to support a dose recommendation for patients with a CLCr less than 50 mL / min .
2 . 4 Prevention of Hyperuricemia Take precautions against hyperuricemia ( e . g . , hydration , urine alkalinization , and prophylaxis with allopurinol ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 5 Instructions for Handling , Preparation , and Administration Handling : Nelarabine is a cytotoxic agent .
Caution should be used during handling and preparation .
Use of gloves and other protective clothing to prevent skin contact is recommended .
Proper aseptic technique should be used .
Guidelines for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs have been published . 1 Preparation and Administration : Administer nelarabine injection undiluted .
Transfer the appropriate dose of nelarabine injection into polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) infusion bags or glass containers and administer as a 2 - hour infusion in adult patients and as a 1 - hour infusion in pediatric patients .
Prior to administration , inspect the drug product visually for particulate matter and discoloration .
Stability : Nelarabine Injection is stable in polyvinylchloride ( PVC ) infusion bags and glass containers for up to 8 hours at up to 30 ℃ .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose vial Injection : 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Neurologic Adverse Reactions : Severe neurologic reactions have been reported .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of neurologic toxicity .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hematologic Reactions : Complete blood counts including platelets should be monitored regularly .
( 5 . 2 ) • Embryo - Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus and to use effective contraception ; and advise males to use condoms .
( 5 . 3 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) • Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines : Somnolence may occur .
Advise patients to refrain from these activities until somnolence has resolved .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Neurologic Adverse Reactions Nervous system adverse reactions of any grade were reported for 223 ( 76 % ) adult patients across the Phase I and Phase II trials , and Grade 3 or higher ( severe , life - threatening , or fatal ) adverse reactions were reported for 55 ( 19 % ) patients following initiation of nelarabine therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Based on patients with complete data , the median time to onset of first event is 5 days from start of first infusion ( range : 1 to 166 ) , and the median duration is 6 days ( range : 1 to 393 days ) .
Nervous system adverse reactions of any grade were reported for 69 ( 42 % ) pediatric patients across the Phase I and Phase II trials , and Grade 3 or higher ( severe , life - threatening , or fatal ) adverse reactions were reported for 25 ( 15 % ) patients following initiation of nelarabine therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Based on patients with complete data , the median time to onset of first event is 8 days from start of first infusion ( range : 1 to 269 ) , and the median duration is 2 days ( range : 1 to 82 days ) .
Common signs and symptoms of nelarabine - related neurotoxicity include somnolence , headache , paresthesia and dysesthesia , dizziness , neuropathy ( sensory and motor ) , cerebellar disturbances and tremor .
Severe neurologic toxicity can manifest as coma , status epilepticus , craniospinal demyelination , or ascending neuropathy similar in presentation to Guillain - Barr ¡ SR syndrome .
Full recovery from these adverse reactions has not always occurred with cessation of therapy with nelarabine .
Patients treated previously or concurrently with intrathecal chemotherapy or previously with craniospinal irradiation may be at increased risk for neurologic adverse events .
Monitor patients frequently for signs and symptoms of neurologic toxicity during and for at least 24 hours after completion of treatment with nelarabine .
Discontinue nelarabine for neurologic adverse reactions of NCI CTCAE Grade 2 or greater and provide supportive care [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hematologic Adverse Reactions Leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , and neutropenia , including febrile neutropenia , have been associated with nelarabine therapy .
Complete blood counts including platelets should be monitored regularly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Embryo - Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action and findings in animal studies , nelarabine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of nelarabine to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in teratogenicity at maternal doses below the recommended human adult dose of 1 , 500 mg / m2 / day ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with nelarabine .
Advise males with female partners of reproductive potential to use condoms during treatment with nelarabine and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) , Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Tumor Lysis Syndrome Patients receiving nelarabine should receive intravenous hydration according to standard medical practice for the management of hyperuricemia in patients at risk for tumor lysis syndrome .
Consideration should be given to the use of allopurinol in patients at risk of hyperuricemia [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Vaccinations Avoid the administration of live vaccines to immunocompromised patients .
5 . 6 Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines Patients treated with nelarabine may experience somnolence during and for several days after treatment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients to refrain from driving or engaging in hazardous occupations or activities until somnolence has resolved .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically - significant adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Neurologic [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hematologic [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Tumor Lysis Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The most common ( ≥ 20 % ) adverse reactions were : • Adult : anemia , thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , constipation , fatigue , pyrexia , cough , and dyspnea ( 6 . 1 ) • Pediatric : anemia , neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and leukopenia ( 6 . 1 ) The most common ( > 10 % ) neurological adverse reactions were : • Adult : somnolence , dizziness , peripheral neurologic disorders , hypoesthesia , headache , and paresthesia ( 6 . 1 ) • Pediatric : headache and peripheral neurologic disorders ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Relapsed or Refractory T - ALL and T - LBL Nelarabine was studied in 459 patients in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials .
Adult Patient : The safety profile of nelarabine is based on data from 103 adult patients treated with the recommended dose and schedule in 2 studies : an adult T - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( T - ALL ) / T - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma ( T - LBL ) trial and an adult chronic lymphocytic leukemia trial .
The most common adverse reactions in adults were fatigue ; gastrointestinal ( GI ) disorders ( nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , and constipation ) ; hematologic disorders ( anemia , neutropenia , and thrombocytopenia ) ; respiratory disorders ( cough and dyspnea ) ; nervous system disorders ( somnolence and dizziness ) ; and pyrexia .
The most common adverse reactions in adults by Body System , including severe or life - threatening adverse reactions ( NCI CTCAE Grade 3 or Grade 4 ) and fatal adverse reactions ( Grade 5 ) are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Most Commonly Reported ( ≥ 5 % Overall ) Adverse Reactions in Adult Patients Treated with 1 , 500 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously over 2 Hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 Repeated Every 21 Days Abbreviation : AST , aspartate transaminase .
a Five patients had a fatal adverse reaction .
Fatal adverse reactions included hypotension ( n = 1 ) , respiratory arrest ( n = 1 ) , pleural effusion / pneumothorax ( n = 1 ) , pneumonia ( n = 1 ) , and cerebral hemorrhage / coma / leukoencephalopathy ( n = 1 ) .
Percentage of Patients ( N = 103 ) Body System Adverse Reaction Toxicity Grade Grade 3 % Grades 4 and 5 a % All Grades % Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Anemia 20 14 99 Thrombocytopenia 37 22 86 Neutropenia 14 49 81 Febrile neutropenia 9 1 12 Cardiac Disorders Sinus tachycardia 1 0 8 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 0 0 41 Diarrhea 1 0 22 Vomiting 1 0 22 Constipation 1 0 21 Abdominal pain 1 0 9 Stomatitis 1 0 8 Abdominal distension 0 0 6 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue 10 2 50 Pyrexia 5 0 23 Asthenia 0 1 17 Edema , peripheral 0 0 15 Edema 0 0 11 Pain 3 0 11 Rigors 0 0 8 Gait , abnormal 0 0 6 Chest pain 0 0 5 Noncardiac chest pain 0 1 5 Infections Infection 2 1 9 Pneumonia 4 1 8 Sinusitis 1 0 7 Hepatobiliary Disorders AST increased 1 1 6 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Anorexia 0 0 9 Dehydration 3 1 7 Hyperglycemia 1 0 6 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Myalgia 1 0 13 Arthralgia 1 0 9 Back pain 0 0 8 Muscular weakness 5 0 8 Pain in extremity 1 0 7 Nervous System Disorders ( see Table 2 ) Psychiatric Disorders Confusional state 2 0 8 Insomnia 0 0 7 Depression 1 0 6 Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 0 0 25 Dyspnea 4 2 20 Pleural effusion 5 1 10 Epistaxis 0 0 8 Dyspnea , exertional 0 0 7 Wheezing 0 0 5 Vascular Disorders Petechiae 2 0 12 Hypotension 1 1 8 Other Adverse Reactions : Blurred vision was also reported in 4 % of adult patients .
There was a single report of biopsy - confirmed progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in the adult patient population .
Neurologic Adverse Reactions : Nervous system adverse reactions , were reported for 76 % of adult patients across the Phase I and Phase II trials .
The most common neurologic adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in adult patients including all grades ( NCI CTCAE ) are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Neurologic Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in Adult Patients Treated With 1 , 500 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously Over 2 Hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 Repeated Every 21 Days Nervous System Disorders Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients ( N = 103 ) Grade 1 % Grade 2 % Grade 3 % Grade 4 % All Grades % Somnolence 20 3 0 0 23 Dizziness 14 8 0 0 21 Peripheral neurologic disorders , any adverse reaction 8 12 2 0 21 Neuropathy 0 4 0 0 4 Peripheral neuropathy 2 2 1 0 5 Peripheral motor neuropathy 3 3 1 0 7 Peripheral sensory neuropathy 7 6 0 0 13 Hypoesthesia 5 10 2 0 17 Headache 11 3 1 0 15 Paresthesia 11 4 0 0 15 Ataxia 1 6 2 0 9 Depressed level of consciousness 4 1 0 1 6 Tremor 2 3 0 0 5 Amnesia 2 1 0 0 3 Dysgeusia 2 1 0 0 3 Balance disorder 1 1 0 0 2 Sensory loss 0 2 0 0 2 One patient had a fatal neurologic adverse reaction , cerebral hemorrhage / coma / leukoencephalopathy .
Most nervous system adverse reactions in the adult patients were evaluated as Grade 1 or 2 .
The additional Grade 3 adverse reactions in adult patients , were aphasia , convulsion , hemiparesis , and loss of consciousness , each reported in 1 patient ( 1 % ) .
The additional Grade 4 adverse reactions were cerebral hemorrhage , coma , intracranial hemorrhage , leukoencephalopathy , and metabolic encephalopathy , each reported in one patient ( 1 % ) .
The other neurologic adverse reactions reported as Grade 1 , 2 , or unknown in adult patients were abnormal coordination , burning sensation , disturbance in attention , dysarthria , hyporeflexia , neuropathic pain , nystagmus , peroneal nerve palsy , sciatica , sensory disturbance , sinus headache , and speech disorder , each reported in one patient ( 1 % ) .
Pediatric Patient : The safety profile for children is based on data from 84 pediatric patients treated with the recommended dose and schedule in a T - ALL / T - LBL treatment trial .
The most common adverse reactions in pediatric patients were hematologic disorders ( anemia , leukopenia , neutropenia , and thrombocytopenia ) .
Of the non - hematologic adverse reactions in pediatric patients , the most frequent adverse reactions reported were headache , increased transaminase levels , decreased blood potassium , decreased blood albumin , increased blood bilirubin , and vomiting .
The most common adverse reactions in pediatric patients by System Organ Class including severe or life threatening adverse reactions ( NCI CTCAE Grade 3 or Grade 4 ) and fatal adverse reactions ( Grade 5 ) are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 Most Commonly Reported ( ≥ 5 % Overall ) Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Treated With 650 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously Over 1 Hour Daily for 5 Consecutive Days Repeated Every 21 Days a Three patients had a fatal adverse reaction .
Fatal adverse reactions included neutropenia and pyrexia ( n = 1 ) , status epilepticus / seizure ( n = 1 ) , and fungal pneumonia ( n = 1 ) .
Body System Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients ( N = 84 ) Toxicity Grade Grade 3 % Grade 4 and 5 a % All Grades % Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders Anemia 45 10 95 Neutropenia 17 62 94 Thrombocytopenia 27 32 88 Leukopenia 14 7 38 Hepatobiliary Disorders Transaminases increased 4 0 12 Blood albumin decreased 5 1 10 Blood bilirubin increased 7 2 10 Metabolic / Laboratory Blood potassium decreased 4 2 11 Blood calcium decreased 1 1 8 Blood creatinine increased 0 0 6 Blood glucose decreased 4 0 6 Blood magnesium decreased 2 0 6 Nervous System Disorders ( see Table 4 ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting 0 0 10 General Disorders & Administration Site Conditions Asthenia 1 0 6 Infections & Infestations Infection 2 1 5 Neurologic Adverse Reactions : Nervous system adverse reactions were reported for 42 % of pediatric patients across the Phase I and Phase II trials .
The most common neurologic adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in pediatric patients including all grades ( NCI CTCAE ) are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 Neurologic Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 % ) in Pediatric Patients Treated With 650 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously Over 1 Hour Daily for 5 Consecutive Days Repeated Every 21 Days a One ( 1 ) patient had a fatal neurologic adverse reaction , status epilepticus .
Nervous System Disorders Adverse Reaction Percentage of Patients ( N = 84 ) Grade 1 % Grade 2 % Grade 3 % Grade 4 and 5 a % All Grades % Headache 8 2 4 2 17 Peripheral neurologic disorders , any adverse reaction 1 4 7 0 12 Peripheral neuropathy 0 4 2 0 6 Peripheral motor neuropathy 1 0 2 0 4 Peripheral sensory neuropathy 0 0 6 0 6 Somnolence 1 4 1 1 7 Hypoesthesia 1 1 4 0 6 Seizures 0 0 0 6 6 Convulsions 0 0 0 3 4 Grand mal convulsions 0 0 0 1 1 Status epilepticus 0 0 0 1 1 Motor dysfunction 1 1 1 0 4 Nervous system disorder 1 2 0 0 4 Paresthesia 0 2 1 0 4 Tremor 1 2 0 0 4 Ataxia 1 0 1 0 2 The other Grade 3 neurologic adverse reaction in pediatric patients was hypertonia reported in 1 patient ( 1 % ) .
The additional Grade 4 neurologic adverse reactions , were 3 rd nerve paralysis , and 6 th nerve paralysis , each reported in 1 patient ( 1 % ) .
The other neurologic adverse reactions reported as Grade 1 , 2 , or unknown in pediatric patients were dysarthria , encephalopathy , hydrocephalus , hyporeflexia , lethargy , mental impairment , paralysis , and sensory loss , each reported in 1 patient ( 1 % ) .
Nelarabine in Combination with Multi - Agent Chemotherapy in T - ALL and T - LBL Nelarabine was studied in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy in a randomized clinical trial [ NCT00408005 ] .
The safety population in this trial included 804 patients with newly - diagnosed T - ALL ( 85 % ) or T - LBL ( 15 % ) treated with ( n = 411 ) or without ( n = 393 ) nelarabine in combination with the augmented Berlin - Frankfurt - Münster chemotherapy regimen ( aBFM ) after initial induction therapy .
Patients assigned to nelarabine received 650 mg / m2 intravenously over 1 hour daily for 5 consecutive days , during consolidation days 1 to 5 and 43 to 47 , delayed intensification days 29 to 33 , and during the initial 3 courses of maintenance days 29 to 33 .
The median age on enrollment was 9 . 5 years ( range , 1 to 29 ) , the majority of patients were male ( 73 % ) and white ( 69 % ) .
Sixty - five percent of patients assigned to the nelarabine arms received at least 85 % of the planned dose through the third course of maintenance therapy compared to 79 % of patients on the control arms who received 3 courses of maintenance therapy .
There was one fatal neurological adverse reaction in the nelarabine arm .
The incidence of the following grades 3 and 4 adverse reactions were higher in the nelarabine treated arms compared to the control arms : abnormal transaminases , motor and sensory neuropathy , nausea and vomiting , and dehydration .
The incidence of seizures of any grade was 3 % ( 14 of 411 ) .
Rhabdomyolysis was diagnosed in 2 % ( 7 of 411 ) of nelarabine treated patients and occurred after the first course of nelarabine during the consolidation phase of therapy .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of nelarabine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Infections and Infestations : Fatal opportunistic infections .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : Tumor lysis syndrome .
Nervous System Disorders : Demyelination and ascending peripheral neuropathies similar in appearance to Guillain - Barr ¡ SR syndrome .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Disorders : Rhabdomyolysis , blood creatine phosphokinase increased .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Administration of nelarabine in combination with adenosine deaminase inhibitors , such as pentostatin , is not recommended [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Administration in combination with adenosine deaminase inhibitors , such as pentostatin , is not recommended .
( 7 , 12 . 3 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Renal Impairment : Closely monitor patients with moderate or severe renal impairment for toxicities .
( 8 . 6 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Closely monitor patients with severe hepatic impairment for toxicities .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on its mechanism of action and findings in animal studies , nelarabine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Limited available data with nelarabine use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are risks to the pregnant woman associated with untreated leukemia or lymphoma ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , intravenous administration of nelarabine to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis resulted in teratogenicity at maternal doses below the recommended human adult dose of 1 , 500 mg / m2 / day ( see Data ) .
Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to the fetus .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo - fetal Risk There are risks to the mother from untreated leukemia or lymphoma , including anemia , thrombocytopenia , and death .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study in which pregnant rabbits were administered daily doses of nelarabine during organogenesis , increased incidences of fetal malformations , anomalies , and variations were observed at doses greater than or equal to 360 mg / m2 / day ( 8 - hour IV infusion ; approximately 25 % of the recommended human adult dose compared on a mg / m2 basis ) , which was the lowest dose tested .
Cleft palate was seen in rabbits given 3 , 600 mg / m2 / day ( approximately 2 - fold the adult dose ) , absent pollices ( digits ) in rabbits given greater than or equal to 1 , 200 mg / m2 / day ( approximately 75 % of the recommended adult dose ) , while absent gall bladder , absent accessory lung lobes , fused or extra sternebrae , and delayed ossification was seen at all doses .
Maternal body weight gain and fetal body weights were reduced in rabbits given 3 , 600 mg / m2 / day ( approximately 2 - fold the adult dose ) , but could not account for the increased incidence of malformations seen at this or lower administered doses .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of nelarabine or ara - G in human or animal milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or the effect on milk production .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed child from nelarabine , such as severe neurological reactions , advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with nelarabine .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Nelarabine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Verify the pregnancy status of females of reproductive potential prior to starting treatment with nelarabine .
Contraception Females Nelarabine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with nelarabine .
Males Because of the potential for genotoxicity , advise males ( including those who have had vasectomies ) with female partners of reproductive potential to use condoms during treatment with nelarabine and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nelarabine for relapsed or refractory T - ALL and T - LBL has been established in pediatric patients age 1 year and older .
The effectiveness of nelarabine in pediatric patients is supported by one single - arm clinical trial , and safety has been assessed in 165 pediatric patients age 1 year and older across multiple Phase I and Phase II trials .
The trial establishing efficacy included 84 patients age 21 years and younger , who had relapsed or refractory T - ALL or T - LBL .
The most frequent adverse reactions of any grade occurring on treatment in this study were hematologic laboratory abnormalities .
Hematologic toxicity observed in the pediatric population was higher than that seen in the adult population .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Nervous system adverse reactions have been reported for 42 % of pediatric patients across the Phase I and Phase II trials .
The incidence of nervous system adverse reactions was less in the pediatric population than that seen in adult patients with relapsed / refractory T - ALL / T - LBL [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In a phase III study of nelarabine in combination with multi - agent chemotherapy as first - line therapy , there were 411 patients with T - ALL or T - LBL treated with nelarabine .
The safety profile in the 357 patients age 1 to 16 years was consistent with that seen in older patients in the study .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Due to lack of long - term follow up data , a determination of the impact of nelarabine on the growth and pubertal development of pediatric patients cannot be made .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of nelarabine did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
In an exploratory analysis , increasing age , especially age 65 years and older , appeared to be associated with increased rates of neurologic adverse reactions .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Ara - G clearance decreased as renal function decreased [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with moderate ( CLCr 30 to 50 mL / min ) or severe ( CLCr less than 30 mL / min ) renal impairment , these patients should be closely monitored for toxicities when treated with nelarabine [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of nelarabine has not been evaluated .
Because the risk of adverse reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( total bilirubin greater than 3 times upper limit of normal ) , these patients should be closely monitored for toxicities when treated with nelarabine .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known antidote for overdoses of nelarabine .
It is anticipated that overdosage would result in severe neurotoxicity ( possibly including paralysis , coma ) , myelosuppression , and potentially death .
In the event of overdose , supportive care consistent with good clinical practice should be provided .
At a dose of 2 , 200 mg / m2 given on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 every 21 days , 2 patients developed a significant Grade 3 ascending sensory neuropathy .
MRI evaluations of the 2 patients demonstrated findings consistent with a demyelinating process in the cervical spine .
11 DESCRIPTION Nelarabine is a prodrug of the cytotoxic deoxyguanosine analogue , 9 - β - D arabinofuranosylguanine ( ara - G ) .
The chemical name for nelarabine is 2 - amino - 9 - β - D - arabinofuranosyl - 6 - methoxy - 9 H - purine .
It has the molecular formula C11H15N5O5 and a molecular weight of 297 . 27 .
Nelarabine has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nelarabine is slightly soluble to soluble in water and melts with decomposition between 209 ℃ and 217 ℃ .
Nelarabine Injection is supplied as a clear , colorless , sterile solution in glass single - dose vials .
Each vial contains 250 mg of nelarabine ( 5 mg nelarabine per mL ) and the inactive ingredient sodium chloride , USP ( 4 . 5 mg per mL ) in 50 mL water for injection , USP .
Hydrochloric acid and sodium hydroxide may have been used to adjust the pH . The solution pH ranges from 5 . 0 to 7 . 0 .
Nelarabine Injection is intended for intravenous infusion .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nelarabine is a prodrug of the deoxyguanosine analogue 9 - β - D - arabinofuranosylguanine ( ara - G ) , a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor .
Nelarabine is demethylated by adenosine deaminase ( ADA ) to ara - G , mono - phosphorylated by deoxyguanosine kinase and deoxycytidine kinase , and subsequently converted to the active 5 ' - triphosphate , ara - GTP .
Accumulation of ara - GTP in leukemic blasts allows for incorporation into deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) , leading to inhibition of DNA synthesis and cell death .
Other mechanisms may contribute to the cytotoxic and systemic toxicity of nelarabine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Following intravenous administration of nelarabine to adult patients with refractory leukemia or lymphoma , plasma ara - G Cmax values generally occurred at the end of the nelarabine infusion and were generally higher than nelarabine Cmax values , suggesting rapid and extensive conversion of nelarabine to ara - G .
Mean plasma nelarabine and ara - G Cmax values were 5 . 0 ± 3 . 0 mcg / mL and 31 . 4 ± 5 . 6 mcg / mL , respectively , after a 1 , 500 mg / m2 nelarabine dose infused over 2 hours in adult patients .
The area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of ara - G is 37 times higher than that for nelarabine on day 1 after nelarabine IV infusion of 1 , 500 mg / m2 dose ( 162 ± 49 mcg . h / mL versus 4 . 4 ± 2 . 2 mcg . h / mL , respectively ) .
Comparable Cmax and AUC values were obtained for nelarabine between days 1 and 5 at the nelarabine adult dosage of 1 , 500 mg / m2 , indicating that nelarabine does not accumulate after multiple - dosing .
There are not enough ara - G data to make a comparison between day 1 and day 5 .
After a nelarabine adult dose of 1 , 500 mg / m2 , intracellular Cmax for ara - GTP appeared within 3 to 25 hours on day 1 .
Exposure ( AUC ) to intracellular ara - GTP was 532 times higher than that for nelarabine and 14 times higher than that for ara - G ( 2 , 339 ± 2 , 628 mcg . h / mL versus 4 . 4 ± 2 . 2 mcg . h / mL and 162 ± 49 mcg . h / mL , respectively ) .
Because the intracellular levels of ara - GTP were so prolonged , its elimination half - life could not be accurately estimated .
Distribution : Nelarabine and ara - G are extensively distributed throughout the body .
For nelarabine , VSS values were 197 ± 216 L / m2 in adult patients .
For ara - G , VSS / F values were 50 ± 24 L / m2 in adult patients .
Nelarabine and ara - G are not substantially bound to human plasma proteins ( < 25 % ) in vitro , and binding is independent of nelarabine or ara - G concentrations up to 600 µM .
Metabolism : The principal route of metabolism for nelarabine is O - demethylation by adenosine deaminase to form ara - G , which undergoes hydrolysis to form guanine .
In addition , some nelarabine is hydrolyzed to form methylguanine , which is O - demethylated to form guanine .
Guanine is N - deaminated to form xanthine , which is further oxidized to yield uric acid .
Excretion : Nelarabine and ara - G are partially eliminated by the kidneys .
Mean urinary excretion of nelarabine and ara - G was 6 . 6 ± 4 . 7 % and 27 ± 15 % of the administered dose , respectively , in 28 adult patients over the 24 hours after nelarabine infusion on day 1 .
Renal clearance averaged 24 ± 23 L / h for nelarabine and 6 . 2 ± 5 . 0 L / h for ara - G in 21 adult patients .
Combined Phase I pharmacokinetic data at nelarabine doses of 199 to 2 , 900 mg / m2 ( n = 66 adult patients ) indicate that the mean clearance ( CL ) of nelarabine is 197 ± 189 L / h / m2 on day 1 .
The apparent clearance of ara - G ( CL / F ) is 10 . 5 ± 4 . 5 L / h / m2 on day 1 .
Nelarabine and ara - G are rapidly eliminated from plasma with a mean half - life of 18 minutes and 3 . 2 hours , respectively , in adult patients .
Pediatrics : No pharmacokinetic data are available in pediatric patients at the once - daily 650 mg / m2 nelarabine dosage .
Combined Phase I pharmacokinetic data at nelarabine doses of 104 to 2 , 900 mg / m2 indicate that the mean clearance ( CL ) of nelarabine is about 30 % higher in pediatric patients than in adult patients ( 259 ± 409 L / h / m2 versus 197 ± 189 L / h / m2 , respectively ) ( n = 66 adults , n = 22 pediatric patients ) on day 1 .
The apparent clearance of ara - G ( CL / F ) is comparable between the two groups ( 10 . 5 ± 4 . 5 L / h / m2 in adult patients and 11 . 3 ± 4 . 2 L / h / m2 in pediatric patients ) on day 1 .
Nelarabine and ara - G are extensively distributed throughout the body .
For nelarabine , VSS values were 213 ± 358 L / m2 in pediatric patients .
For ara - G , VSS / F values were 33 ± 9 . 3 L / m2 in pediatric patients .
Nelarabine and ara - G are rapidly eliminated from plasma in pediatric patients , with a half - life of 13 minutes and 2 hours , respectively .
Effect of Age : Age has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of nelarabine or ara - G in adults .
Decreased renal function , which is more common in the elderly , may reduce ara - G clearance [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Effect of Gender : Gender has no effect on nelarabine or ara - G pharmacokinetics .
Effect of Race : In general , nelarabine mean clearance and volume of distribution values tend to be higher in whites ( n = 63 ) than in blacks ( by about 10 % ) ( n = 15 ) .
The opposite is true for ara - G ; mean apparent clearance and volume of distribution values tend to be lower in whites than in blacks ( by about 15 % to 20 % ) .
No differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these groups .
Effect of Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of nelarabine and ara - G have not been specifically studied in renally impaired or hemodialyzed patients .
Nelarabine is excreted by the kidney to a small extent ( 5 % to 10 % of the administered dose ) .
Ara - G is excreted by the kidney to a greater extent ( 20 % to 30 % of the administered nelarabine dose ) .
In the combined Phase I trials , patients were categorized into 3 groups : normal with CLCr greater than 80 mL / min ( n = 67 ) , mild with CLCr = 50 to 80 mL / min ( n = 15 ) , and moderate with CLCr less than 50 mL / min ( n = 3 ) .
The mean apparent clearance ( CL / F ) of ara - G was about 15 % and 40 % lower in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment , respectively , than in patients with normal renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
No differences in safety or effectiveness were observed .
Effect of Hepatic Impairment : The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of nelarabine has not been evaluated [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions : Cytochrome P450 : Nelarabine and ara - G did not significantly inhibit the activities of the human hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 in vitro at concentrations of nelarabine and ara - G up to 100 µM .
Fludarabine : Administration of fludarabine 30 mg / m2 as a 30 - minute infusion 4 hours before a 1 , 200 - mg / m2 infusion of nelarabine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of nelarabine , ara - G , or ara - GTP in 12 patients with refractory leukemia .
Pentostatin : There is in vitro evidence that pentostatin is a strong inhibitor of adenosine deaminase .
Inhibition of adenosine deaminase may result in a reduction in the conversion of the prodrug nelarabine to its active moiety and consequently in a reduction in efficacy of nelarabine and / or change in adverse reaction profile of either drug [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity testing of nelarabine has not been done .
However , nelarabine was mutagenic when tested in vitro in L5178Y / TK mouse lymphoma cells with and without metabolic activation .
No studies have been conducted in animals to assess genotoxic potential or effects on fertility .
The effect on human fertility is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Adult Clinical Trial in Relapsed or Refractory T - ALL and T - LBL The safety and efficacy of nelarabine in adult patients were studied in a clinical trial which included 39 treated patients , 28 who had T - ALL or T - LBL that had relapsed following or was refractory to at least two prior induction regimens .
A 1 , 500 - mg / m2 dose of nelarabine was administered intravenously over 2 hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 repeated every 21 days .
Patients who experienced signs or symptoms of Grade 2 or greater neurologic toxicity on therapy were to be discontinued from further therapy with nelarabine .
Seventeen patients had a diagnosis of T - ALL and 11 had a diagnosis of T - LBL .
For patients with ≥ 2 prior inductions , the age range was 16 to 65 years ( mean : 34 years ) and most patients were male ( 82 % ) and Caucasian ( 61 % ) .
Patients with central nervous system ( CNS ) disease were not eligible .
Complete response ( CR ) in this trial was defined as bone marrow blast counts ≤ 5 % , no other evidence of disease , and full recovery of peripheral blood counts .
Complete response without complete hematologic recovery ( CR * ) was also assessed .
The results of the trial for patients who had received ≥ 2 prior inductions are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 Efficacy Results in Adult Patients With ≥ 2 Prior Inductions Treated With 1 , 500 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously Over 2 Hours on Days 1 , 3 , and 5 Repeated Every 21 Days Abbreviations : CR , complete response ; CI , confidence interval ; CR * , complete response without hematologic recovery .
a Does not include 1 patient who was transplanted ( duration of response was 156 + weeks ) .
N = 28 CR plus CR * % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 21 % ( 6 ) [ 8 % , 41 % ] CR % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 18 % ( 5 ) [ 6 % , 37 % ] CR * % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 4 % ( 1 ) [ 0 % , 18 % ] Duration of CR plus CR * ( range in weeks ) a 4 to 195 + Median overall survival ( weeks ) [ 95 % CI ] 20 . 6 weeks [ 10 . 4 , 36 . 4 ] The mean number of days on therapy was 56 days ( range of 10 to 136 days ) .
Time to CR plus CR * ranged from 2 . 9 to 11 . 7 weeks .
14 . 2 Pediatric Clinical Trial in Relapsed or Refractory T - ALL and T - LBL The safety and efficacy of nelarabine in pediatric patients were studied in a clinical trial which included patients age 21 years and younger , who had relapsed or refractory T - ALL or T - LBL .
Eighty - four ( 84 ) patients , 39 of whom had received two or more prior induction regimens , were treated with 650 mg / m2 / day of nelarabine administered intravenously over 1 hour daily for 5 consecutive days repeated every 21 days ( see Table 6 ) .
Patients who experienced signs or symptoms of Grade 2 or greater neurologic toxicity on therapy were to be discontinued from further therapy with nelarabine .
Table 6 Pediatric Clinical Trial - Patient Allocation Abbreviations : T - ALL , T - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ; T - LBL , T - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma .
Patient Population N Patients treated at 650 mg / m2 / day x 5 days , every 21 days .
84 Patients with T - ALL or T - LBL with two or more prior induction treated at 650 mg / m2 / day x 5 days , every 21 days .
39 Patients with T - ALL or T - LBL with one prior induction treated at 650 mg / m2 / day x 5 days , every 21 days .
31 The 84 patients ranged in age from 2 . 5 to 21 . 7 years ( overall mean : 11 . 9 years ) , 52 % were 3 to 12 years of age and most were male ( 74 % ) and Caucasian ( 62 % ) .
The majority ( 77 % ) of patients had a diagnosis of T - ALL .
Complete response ( CR ) in this trial was defined as bone marrow blast counts ≤ 5 % , no other evidence of disease , and full recovery of peripheral blood counts .
Complete response without full hematologic recovery ( CR * ) was also assessed as a meaningful outcome in this trial .
Duration of response is reported from date of response to date of relapse , and may include subsequent stem cell transplant .
Efficacy results are presented in Table 7 .
Table 7 Efficacy Results in Patients Age 21 Years and Younger at Diagnosis With ≥ 2 Prior Inductions Treated With 650 mg / m2 of Nelarabine Administered Intravenously Over 1 Hour Daily for 5 Consecutive Days Repeated Every 21 Days Abbreviations : CR , complete response ; CI , confidence interval ; CR * , complete response without hematologic recovery .
a Does not include 5 patients who were transplanted or had subsequent systemic chemotherapy ( duration of response in these 5 patients was 4 . 7 to 42 . 1 weeks ) .
N = 39 CR plus CR * % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 23 % ( 9 ) [ 11 % , 39 % ] CR % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 13 % ( 5 ) [ 4 % , 27 % ] CR * % ( n ) [ 95 % CI ] 10 % ( 4 ) [ 3 % , 24 % ] Duration of CR plus CR * ( range in weeks ) a 3 . 3 to 9 . 3 Median overall survival ( weeks ) [ 95 % CI ] 13 . 1 [ 8 . 7 , 17 . 4 ] The mean number of days on therapy was 46 days ( range : 7 to 129 days ) .
Median time to CR plus CR * was 3 . 4 weeks ( 95 % CI : 3 . 0 , 3 . 7 ) .
15 REFERENCES 1 .
" OSHA Hazardous Drugs . "
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Nelarabine Injection is supplied as a clear , colorless , sterile solution in Type I , clear glass single - dose vials with a grey bromobutyl rubber stopper ( not made with natural rubber latex ) and an aluminum seal with a red colour flip - off cap .
Each single - dose vial contains 250 mg of nelarabine ( 5 mg nelarabine per mL ) and the inactive ingredient sodium chloride , USP ( 4 . 5 mg per mL ) in 50 mL water for injection , USP and are available in the following carton size .
Strength ( s ) Package Size Carton NDC Number 250 mg / 50 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) 50 mL Single - dose Vial ( NDC Number : 70710 - 1726 - 1 ) 70710 - 1726 - 1 6 x 50 mL Single - dose Vials ( NDC Number : 70710 - 1726 - 1 ) 70710 - 1726 - 8 Store nelarabine injection at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Hematologic Adverse Reactions • Advise patients that leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , and neutropenia , including febrile neutropenia , have been associated with nelarabine .
• Advise patients that complete blood counts , including platelets , will be monitored regularly during treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Embryo - Fetal Toxicity • Advise pregnant females of reproductive potential and males with female partners of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with nelarabine .
Instruct females to inform their physician of a known or suspected pregnancy .
• Advise male patients with partners of reproductive potential to use condoms during treatment with nelarabine and for 3 months after the last dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Tumor Lysis Syndrome • Advise patients of the risk of tumor lysis syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Vaccinations • Instruct patients not to receive live vaccines during treatment with nelarabine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Effects on Ability to Drive and Use Machines • Patients receiving nelarabine may experience somnolence during and for several days after treatment .
Instruct patients to not drive or engage in hazardous occupations or activities until somnolence has resolved [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Neurologic Adverse Reactions • Instruct patients to contact their physician if they experience new or worsening symptoms of peripheral neuropathy [ see Boxed Warning , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
These signs and symptoms include : tingling or numbness in fingers , hands , toes , or feet ; difficulty with the fine motor coordination tasks such as buttoning clothing ; unsteadiness while walking ; weakness arising from a low chair ; weakness in climbing stairs ; increased tripping while walking over uneven surfaces .
• Advise patients of the risk of seizures [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
If a seizure occurs , instruct patients to promptly notify the physician administering nelarabine .
Infection • Instruct patients to promptly notify their physician if they develop fever or signs of infection while on therapy [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
Lactation • Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with nelarabine [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 06 / 21 PATIENT INFORMATION Nelarabine ( nel ar ' a been ) Injection Read the Patient Information that comes with nelarabine injection before you or your child starts treatment with nelarabine injection .
Read the information you get each time before each treatment with nelarabine injection .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with the doctor about your or your child ' s medical condition or treatment .
Talk to your or your child ' s doctor , if you have any questions .
What is the most important information I should know about nelarabine injection ?
Nelarabine Injection may cause blood related adverse reactions .
Your doctor will do blood tests regularly during treatment to monitor blood counts , including platelets .
Nelarabine Injection may cause serious nervous system problems including : • extreme sleepiness • seizures • coma • numbness and tingling in the hands , fingers , feet , or toes ( peripheral neuropathy ) • weakness and paralysis Call the doctor right away if you or your child has the following symptoms : • seizures • numbness and tingling in the hands , fingers , feet , or toes • problems with fine motor skills such as buttoning clothes • unsteadiness while walking • increased tripping while walking • weakness when getting out of a chair or walking upstairs These symptoms may not go away even when treatment with nelarabine injection is stopped .
What is nelarabine injection ?
Nelarabine Injection is an anti - cancer medicine used to treat adults and children who have : • T - cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia • T - cell lymphoblastic lymphoma What should you tell the doctor before you or your child starts nelarabine injection ?
Tell the doctor about all health conditions you or your child have , including if you or your child : • have any nervous system problems .
• have kidney problems .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known whether nelarabine injection passes through breast milk .
You should not breastfeed during treatment with nelarabine injection .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Nelarabine Injection can harm your unborn baby .
You should not become pregnant while you are taking nelarabine injection .
You should use effective birth control to avoid getting pregnant .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
• are male ( including if you have had a vasectomy ) with a sexual partner who is pregnant , think that they may be pregnant , or who could become pregnant .
You should use condoms during sexual intercourse during treatment with nelarabine injection and for 3 months after last dose .
Tell the doctor about all the medicines you or your child take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How is nelarabine injection given ?
Nelarabine Injection is an intravenous medicine .
This means it is given through a tube in your vein .
What should you or your child avoid during treatment with nelarabine injection ?
• You or your child should not drive or operate dangerous machines .
Nelarabine Injection may cause sleepiness during and for several days after treatment .
• You or your child should not receive vaccines made with live germs during treatment with nelarabine injection .
What are the possible side effects of nelarabine injection ?
Nelarabine Injection may cause serious nervous system problems .
See " What is the most important information I should know about nelarabine injection ? "
Nelarabine Injection may also cause : • decreased blood counts such as low red blood cells , low white blood cells , and low platelets .
Blood tests should be done regularly to check blood counts .
Call the doctor right away if you or your child : • is more tired than usual , pale , or has trouble breathing • has a fever or other signs of an infection • bruises easy or has any unusual bleeding • stomach area problems such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and constipation • headache • sleepiness • blurry eyesight Call your doctor right away if you experience unexplained muscle pain , tenderness , or weakness while taking nelarabine injection .
This is because on rare occasions , muscle problems can be serious .
These are not all the side effects associated with nelarabine injection .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General Advice about nelarabine injection This leaflet summarizes important information about nelarabine injection .
If you have questions or problems , talk with your or your child ' s doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about nelarabine injection that is written for healthcare providers .
Manufactured by Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Distributed by Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 03 / 21 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 70710 - 1726 - 1 Nelarabine Injection 250 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) 50 mL Single - Dose Vial For Intravenous Infusion Only Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 70710 - 1726 - 1 Nelarabine Injection 250 mg / 5 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) 50 mL Single - Dose Vial Carton For Intravenous Infusion Only Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
