Rx only WARNING It is recommended that dacarbazine be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents .
• 1 .
Hemopoietic depression is the most common toxicity with dacarbazine ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 2 .
Hepatic necrosis has been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
• 3 .
Studies have demonstrated this agent to have a carcinogenic and teratogenic effect when used in animals .
• 4 .
In treatment of each patient , the physician must weigh carefully the possibility of achieving therapeutic benefit against the risk of toxicity .
Boxed Warning WARNING It is recommended that dacarbazine be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of cancer chemotherapeutic agents .
• Hemopoietic depression is the most common toxicity with dacarbazine ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Hepatic necrosis has been reported ( see WARNINGS ) .
• Studies have demonstrated this agent to have a carcinogenic and teratogenic effect when used in animals .
• In treatment of each patient , the physician must weigh carefully the possibility of achieving therapeutic benefit against the risk of toxicity .
DESCRIPTION Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is a colorless to an ivory colored solid which is light sensitive .
Each vial contains 200 mg of dacarbazine ( the active ingredient ) , anhydrous citric acid and mannitol .
Dacarbazine is reconstituted and administered intravenously ( pH 3 . 0 to 4 . 0 ) .
Dacarbazine is an anticancer agent .
Chemically , dacarbazine is 5 - ( 3 , 3 - Dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C6H10N6O M . W . = 182 . 19 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After intravenous administration of dacarbazine , the volume of distribution exceeds total body water content suggesting localization in some body tissue , probably the liver .
Its disappearance from the plasma is biphasic with initial half - life of 19 minutes and a terminal half - life of 5 hours .
In a patient with renal and hepatic dysfunctions , the half - lives were lengthened to 55 minutes and 7 . 2 hours .
The average cumulative excretion of unchanged dacarbazine in the urine is 40 % of the injected dose in 6 hours .
Dacarbazine is subject to renal tubular secretion rather than glomerular filtration .
At therapeutic concentrations dacarbazine is not appreciably bound to human plasma protein .
In man , dacarbazine is extensively degraded .
Besides unchanged dacarbazine , 5 - aminoimidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( AIC ) is a major metabolite of dacarbazine excreted in the urine .
AIC is not derived endogenously but from the injected dacarbazine , because the administration of radioactive dacarbazine labeled with 14 C in the imidazole portion of the molecule ( dacarbazine - 2 - 14 C ) gives rise to AIC - 2 - 14 C .
Although the exact mechanism of action of dacarbazine is not known , three hypotheses have been offered : 1 .
inhibition of DNA synthesis by acting as a purine analog 2 .
action as an alkylating agent 3 .
interaction with SH groups INDICATIONS AND USAGE Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma .
In addition , dacarbazine is also indicated for Hodgkin ' s disease as a second - line therapy when used in combination with other effective agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Dacarbazine is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a hypersensitivity to it in the past .
WARNINGS Hemopoietic depression is the most common toxicity with dacarbazine and involves primarily the leukocytes and platelets , although , anemia may sometimes occur .
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia may be severe enough to cause death .
The possible bone marrow depression requires careful monitoring of white blood cells , red blood cells , and platelet levels .
Hemopoietic toxicity may warrant temporary suspension or cessation of therapy with dacarbazine .
Hepatic toxicity accompanied by hepatic vein thrombosis and hepatocellular necrosis resulting in death , has been reported .
The incidence of such reactions has been low ; approximately 0 . 01 % of patients treated .
This toxicity has been observed mostly when dacarbazine has been administered concomitantly with other anti - neoplastic drugs ; however , it has also been reported in some patients treated with dacarbazine alone .
Anaphylaxis can occur following the administration of dacarbazine .
PRECAUTIONS Hospitalization is not always necessary but adequate laboratory study capability must be available .
Extravasation of the drug subcutaneously during intravenous administration may result in tissue damage and severe pain .
Local pain , burning sensation , and irritation at the site of injection may be relieved by locally applied hot packs .
Carcinogenicity of dacarbazine was studied in rats and mice .
Proliferative endocardial lesions , including fibrosarcomas and sarcomas were induced by dacarbazine in rats .
In mice , administration of dacarbazine resulted in the induction of angiosarcomas of the spleen .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects ; Pregnancy Category C Dacarbazine has been shown to be teratogenic in rats when given in doses 20 times the human daily dose on day 12 of gestation .
Dacarbazine when administered in 10 times the human daily dose to male rats ( twice weekly for 9 weeks ) did not affect the male libido , although female rats mated to male rats had higher incidence of resorptions than controls .
In rabbits , dacarbazine daily dose 7 times the human daily dose given on Days 6 to 15 of gestation resulted in fetal skeletal anomalies .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Dacarbazine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for dacarbazine in animal studies , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Symptoms of anorexia , nausea , and vomiting are the most frequently noted of all toxic reactions .
Over 90 % of patients are affected with the initial few doses .
The vomiting lasts 1 to 12 hours and is incompletely and unpredictably palliated with phenobarbital and / or prochlorperazine .
Rarely , intractable nausea and vomiting have necessitated discontinuance of therapy with dacarbazine .
Rarely , dacarbazine has caused diarrhea .
Some helpful suggestions include restricting the patient ’ s oral intake of food for 4 to 6 hours prior to treatment .
The rapid toleration of these symptoms suggests that a central nervous system mechanism may be involved , and usually these symptoms subside after the first 1 or 2 days .
There are a number of minor toxicities that are infrequently noted .
Patients have experienced an influenza - like syndrome of fever to 39 ° C , myalgias and malaise .
These symptoms occur usually after large single doses , may last for several days , and they may occur with successive treatments .
Alopecia has been noted as has facial flushing and facial paresthesia .
There have been few reports of significant liver or renal function test abnormalities in man .
However , these abnormalities have been observed more frequently in animal studies .
Erythematous and urticarial rashes have been observed infrequently after administration of dacarbazine .
Rarely , photosensitivity reactions may occur .
OVERDOSAGE Give supportive treatment and monitor blood cell counts .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Malignant Melanoma The recommended dosage is 2 to 4 . 5 mg / kg / day for 10 days .
Treatment may be repeated at 4 week intervals .
An alternate recommended dosage is 250 mg / square meter body surface / day I . V . for 5 days .
Treatment may be repeated every 3 weeks .
Hodgkin ' s Disease The recommended dosage of dacarbazine in the treatment of Hodgkin ' s disease is 150 mg / square meter body surface / day for 5 days , in combination with other effective drugs .
Treatment may be repeated every 4 weeks .
An alternative recommended dosage is 375 mg / square meter body surface on day 1 , in combination with other effective drugs , to be repeated every 15 days .
Dacarbazine 200 mg / vial is reconstituted with 19 . 7 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
The resulting solution contains 10 mg / mL of dacarbazine having a pH of 3 . 0 to 4 . 0 .
The calculated dose of the resulting solution is drawn into a syringe and administered only intravenously .
The reconstituted solution may be further diluted with 5 % dextrose injection , or sodium chloride injection , and administered as an intravenous infusion .
After reconstitution and prior to use , the solution in the vial may be stored at 4 ° C for up to 72 hours or at normal room conditions ( temperature and light ) for up to 8 hours .
If the reconstituted solution is further diluted in 5 % dextrose injection or sodium chloride injection , the resulting solution may be stored at 4 ° C for up to 24 hours or at normal room conditions for up to 8 hours .
Procedures for proper handling and disposal of anticancer drugs should be considered .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 7 There is no general agreement that all of the procedures recommended in the guidelines are necessary or appropriate .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter or discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Dacarbazine for Injection , USP is supplied as follows : NDC 0143 - 9245 - 10 200 mg / vial of sterile dacarbazine in boxes of 10 .
Store in a refrigerator 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
REFERENCES 1 .
Recommendations for the Safe Handling of Parenteral Antineoplastic Drugs .
NIH Publication No . 83 - 2621 .
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington , D . C . 20402 .
2 .
AMA Council Report .
Guidelines for Handling Parenteral Antineoplastics .
JAMA , March 15 , 1985 .
3 .
National Study Commission on Cytotoxic Exposure Recommendations for Handling Cytotoxic Agents .
Available from Louis P . Jeffrey , Sc .
D . , Director of Pharmacy Services , Rhode Island Hospital , 593 Eddy Street .
Providence .
Rhode Island 02902 .
4 .
Clinical Oncological Society of Australia , Guidelines and recommendations for safe handling of antineoplastic agents .
Med .
J . Australia 1 : 426 - 428 , 1983 .
5 .
Jones , R . B ..
et al . : Safe handling of chemotherapeutic agents : A report from the Mount Sinai Medical Center .
Ca - A Cancer Journal for Clinicians Sept . / Oct . , 258 - 263 . 1983 .
6 .
American Society of Hospital Pharmacists technical assistance bulletin on handling cytotoxic drugs in hospitals .
Am .
J . Hosp .
Pharm , 42 : 131 - 137 , 1985 .
7 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
( OSHA Work - Practice Guidelines ) .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm , 53 : 1669 - 1685 , 1996 .
Manufactured by THYMOORGAN PHARMAZIE GmbH , Schiffgraben 23 , 38690 Goslar , Germany Distributed by Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised March 2020 127 . 207 . 024 / 01 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0143 - 9245 - 01 Rx only Dacarbazine for Injection , USP 200 mg per vial Prepared as the citrate salt For Intravenous use Cytotoxic Agent [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0143 - 9245 - 10 Rx only Dacarbazine for Injection , USP 200 mg per vial Prepared as the citrate salt For Intravenous use Cytotoxic Agent 10 Single Dose Sterile Vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
