This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 0 . 5 % v / v ) .
• Aloe Vera Leaf ( 0 . 1 % v / v ) .
• Carbomer 940 ( 0 . 3 % v / v ) .
• Aminomethylpropanol ( 0 . 15 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Disinfex Hand Sanitizer Uses to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
For use when soap and water are not avaliable .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable liquid and vapor .
Keep away from heat / sparks / open flame .
No smoking .
Avoid sprayin in eyes .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness devolops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Put enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together until dry .
• Children under 6 years should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • may discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Carbomer , Aminomethylpropanol .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 250 mL NDC : 79320 - 120 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
