1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sancuso ® ( Granisetron Transdermal System ) is indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in patients receiving moderately and / or highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimens of up to 5 consecutive days duration .
Sancuso is a serotonin subtype 3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in patients receiving moderately and / or highly emetogenic chemotherapy for up to 5 consecutive days .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The transdermal system ( patch ) should be applied to clean , dry , intact healthy skin on the upper outer arm .
Sancuso should not be placed on skin that is red , irritated or damaged .
Each patch is packed in a pouch and should be applied directly after the pouch has been opened .
The patch should not be cut into pieces .
Apply a single transdermal system ( patch ) to the upper outer arm a minimum of 24 hours before chemotherapy .
The patch may be applied up to a maximum of 48 hours before chemotherapy as appropriate .
Remove the patch a minimum of 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy .
The patch can be worn for up to 7 days depending on the duration of the chemotherapy regimen .
( 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults Apply a single patch to the upper outer arm a minimum of 24 hours before chemotherapy .
The patch may be applied up to a maximum of 48 hours before chemotherapy as appropriate .
Remove the patch a minimum of 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy .
The patch can be worn for up to 7 days depending on the duration of the chemotherapy regimen .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sancuso is a 52 cm2 patch containing 34 . 3 mg of granisetron .
The patch releases 3 . 1 mg of granisetron per 24 hours for up to 7 days .
52 cm2 patch containing 34 . 3 mg of granisetron delivering 3 . 1 mg per 24 hours ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sancuso is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to granisetron or to any of the components of the patch .
Known hypersensitivity to granisetron or to any of the components of the patch ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Granisetron may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention caused by the underlying condition .
( 5 . 1 ) • Mild application site reactions have occurred ; remove patch if severe reactions or a generalized skin reaction occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Avoid direct exposure of application site to natural or artificial sunlight by covering with clothing while wearing the patch and for 10 days after removing it .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Gastrointestinal The use of granisetron in patients may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention caused by the underlying condition .
5 . 2 Skin Reactions In clinical trials with Sancuso , application site reactions were reported which were generally mild in intensity and did not lead to discontinuation of use .
The incidence of reactions was comparable with placebo .
If severe reactions , or a generalized skin reaction occur ( e . g . allergic rash , including erythematous , macular , papular rash or pruritus ) , the patch must be removed .
5 . 3 Exposure to Sunlight Granisetron may be affected by direct natural or artificial sunlight .
Patients must be advised to cover the patch application site , e . g . with clothing , if there is a risk of exposure to sunlight throughout the period of wear and for 10 days following its removal because of a potential skin reaction ( see Section 13 . 2 ) .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is constipation .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ProStrakan Inc . at 1 - 800 - SANCUSO and www . sancuso . com , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety of Sancuso was evaluated in a total of 404 patients undergoing chemotherapy who participated in two double - blind , comparator studies with patch treatment durations of up to 7 days .
The control groups included a total of 406 patients who received a daily dose of 2 mg oral granisetron , for 1 to 5 days .
Adverse reactions considered by the investigators as drug - related occurred in 8 . 7 % ( 35 / 404 ) of patients receiving Sancuso and 7 . 1 % ( 29 / 406 ) of patients receiving oral granisetron .
The most common adverse reaction was constipation that occurred in 5 . 4 % of patients in the Sancuso group and 3 . 0 % of patients in the oral granisetron group .
Table 1 lists the treatment emergent adverse reactions that occurred in at least 3 % of patients treated with Sancuso or oral granisetron .
Table 1 : Incidence of Adverse Reactions in Double - Blind , Active Comparator Controlled Studies in Cancer Patients Receiving Chemotherapy ( Events ≥ 3 % in either group ) Body System Preferred Term Sancuso TDS N = 404 ( % ) Oral granisetron N = 406 ( % ) Gastrointestinal disorders Constipation 5 . 4 3 . 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 0 . 7 3 . 0 5 - HT3 receptor antagonists , such as granisetron , may be associated with arrhythmias or ECG abnormalities .
Three ECGs were performed on 588 randomized patients in the Phase 3 study : at baseline before treatment , the first day of chemotherapy , and 5 to 7 days after starting chemotherapy .
QTcF prolongation greater than 450 milliseconds was seen in a total of 11 ( 1 . 9 % ) patients after receiving granisetron , 8 ( 2 . 7 % ) on oral granisetron and 3 ( 1 . 1 % ) on the patch .
No new QTcF prolongation greater than 480 milliseconds was observed in any patient in this study .
No arrhythmias were detected in this study .
6 . 2 Granisetron Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse events reported in clinical trials with other formulations of granisetron include the following : Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , diarrhea , constipation , elevation of ALT and AST levels , nausea and vomiting Cardiovascular : Hypertension , hypotension , angina pectoris , atrial fibrillation and syncope have been observed rarely Central Nervous System : dizziness , insomnia , headache , anxiety , somnolence and asthenia Hypersensitivity : rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . anaphylaxis , shortness of breath , hypotension , urticaria ) have been reported Other : fever ; events often associated with chemotherapy have also been reported : leucopenia , decreased appetite , anemia , alopecia , thrombocytopenia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Granisetron does not induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system in vitro .
There have been no definitive drug - drug interaction studies to examine pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction with other drugs .
However , in humans , granisetron hydrochloride injection has been safely administered with drugs representing benzodiazepines , neuroleptics and anti - ulcer medications commonly prescribed with antiemetic treatments .
Granisetron hydrochloride injection also does not appear to interact with emetogenic cancer therapies .
In agreement with these data , no clinically relevant drug interactions have been reported in clinical studies with Sancuso .
Because granisetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP1A1 and CYP3A4 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and hence , the half - life of granisetron .
In addition , the activity of the cytochrome P - 450 subfamily 3A4 ( involved in the metabolism of some of the main narcotic analgesic agents ) is not modified by granisetron hydrochloride in vitro .
In in vitro human microsomal studies , ketoconazole inhibited ring oxidation of granisetron hydrochloride .
However , the clinical significance of in vivo pharmacokinetic interactions with ketoconazole is not known .
In a human pharmacokinetic study , hepatic enzyme induction with phenobarbital resulted in a 25 % increase in total plasma clearance of intravenous granisetron hydrochloride .
The clinical significance of this change is not known .
• No clinically relevant drug interactions have been reported in clinical studies with Sancuso .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Use during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
( 8 . 1 ) • Use caution when administering to nursing women .
( 8 . 3 ) • Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • Clinical studies of Sancuso did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies with granisetron hydrochloride have been performed in pregnant rats at intravenous doses up to 9 mg / kg / day ( 54 mg / m2 / day , about 24 times the recommended human dose delivered by the Sancuso patch , based on body surface area ) and oral doses up to 125 mg / kg / day ( 750 mg / m2 / day , about 326 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) .
Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rabbits at intravenous doses up to 3 mg / kg / day ( 36 mg / m2 / day , about 16 times the human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) and at oral doses up to 32 mg / kg / day ( 384 mg / m2 / day , about 167 times the human dose with Sancuso based on body surface area ) .
These studies did not reveal any evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to granisetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Sancuso should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether granisetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Sancuso is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of Sancuso in pediatric patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Sancuso did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , cautious treatment selection for an elderly patient is prudent because of the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Renal Failure or Hepatically - Impaired Patients Although no studies have been performed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of Sancuso in patients with renal or hepatic impairment , pharmacokinetic information is available for intravenous granisetron ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics 12 . 3 ) .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for granisetron overdosage .
In the case of overdosage , symptomatic treatment should be given .
Overdosage of up to 38 . 5 mg of granisetron hydrochloride , as a single intravenous injection , has been reported without symptoms or only the occurrence of a slight headache .
In clinical trials there were no reported cases of overdosage with Sancuso .
11 DESCRIPTION Sancuso contains granisetron , which is an anti - nauseant and antiemetic agent .
Chemically it is 1 - methyl - N - [ ( 1 R , 3 r , 5 S ) - 9 - methyl - 9 - azabicyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 ] non - 3 - yl ] - 1 H - indazole - 3 - carboxamide with a molecular weight of 312 . 4 .
Its empirical formula is C18H24N4O , while its chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Granisetron is a white to off - white solid that is insoluble in water .
Sancuso is a thin , translucent , matrix - type transdermal patch that is rectangular - shaped with rounded corners , consisting of a backing , the drug matrix and a release liner .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Granisetron is a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine3 ( 5 - HT3 ) receptor antagonist with little or no affinity for other serotonin receptors , including 5 - HT1 , 5 - HT1A , 5 - HT1B / C , 5 - HT2 ; for alpha1 - , alpha2 - , or beta - adrenoreceptors ; for dopamine - D2 ; or for histamine - H1 ; benzodiazepine ; picrotoxin or opioid receptors .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are located peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
During chemotherapy that induces vomiting , mucosal enterochromaffin cells release serotonin , which stimulates 5 - HT3 receptors .
This evokes vagal afferent discharge , inducing vomiting .
Animal studies demonstrate that , in binding to 5 - HT3 receptors , granisetron blocks serotonin stimulation and subsequent vomiting after emetogenic stimuli such as cisplatin .
In the ferret animal model , a single granisetron injection prevented vomiting due to high - dose cisplatin or arrested vomiting within 5 to 30 seconds .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effect of granisetron on QTc prolongation was evaluated in a randomized , single - blind , positive ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) - and placebo controlled parallel study in healthy subjects .
A total of 240 subjects were administered Sancuso patch , intravenous granisetron ( 10 mcg / kg over 30 seconds ) .
In a study with demonstrated ability to detect small effects , the upper bound of the 90 % confidence interval for the largest placebo adjusted , baseline corrected QTc based on Fridericia correction method ( QTcF ) for Sancuso was below 10 ms , the threshold for regulatory concern .
No evidence of an effect on plasma prolactin or aldosterone concentrations has been found in studies using granisetron .
The effect on oro - cecal transit time following application of Sancuso has not been studied .
Granisetron hydrochloride injection exhibited no effect on oro - cecal transit time in healthy subjects given a single intravenous infusion of 50 mcg / kg or 200 mcg / kg .
Single and multiple oral doses of granisetron hydrochloride slowed colonic transit in healthy subjects .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Granisetron crosses intact skin into the systemic circulation by a passive diffusion process .
Following a 7 - day application of Sancuso in 24 healthy subjects , high inter - subject variability in systemic exposure was observed .
Maximal concentration was reached at approximately 48 hours ( range : 24 - 168 hours ) following patch application .
Mean Cmax was 5 . 0 ng / mL ( CV : 170 % ) and mean AUC0 - 168 hr was 527 ng - hr / mL ( CV : 173 % ) .
Mean Plasma Concentration of Granisetron ( mean ± SD ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Based on the measure of residual content of the patch after removal , approximately 66 % ( SD : ± 10 . 9 ) of granisetron is delivered following patch application for 7 days .
Distribution Plasma protein binding is approximately 65 % .
Granisetron distributes freely between plasma and red blood cells .
Metabolism Granisetron metabolism involves N - demethylation and aromatic ring oxidation followed by conjugation .
In vitro liver microsomal studies show that granisetron ' s major route of metabolism is inhibited by ketoconazole , suggestive of metabolism mediated by the cytochrome P - 450 3 A subfamily .
Animal studies suggest that some of the metabolites may also have 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist activity .
Elimination Clearance is predominantly by hepatic metabolism .
Based on a study with intravenous injection , approximately 12 % of the dose is excreted unchanged in the urine of healthy subjects in 48 hours .
The remainder of the dose is excreted as metabolites , 49 % in the urine , and 34 % in the feces .
Subpopulations Gender There is evidence to suggest that female subjects had higher granisetron concentrations than males following patch application .
However , no statistically significant difference in clinical efficacy outcome was observed between genders .
Pediatrics No studies have been performed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of Sancuso in pediatrics .
Elderly , and Renal or Hepatic Impairment Although no studies have been performed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of Sancuso in elderly subjects , and in patients with renal or hepatic impairment , the following pharmacokinetic information is available for intravenous granisetron .
In the elderly , and in patients with renal failure or hepatic impairment , the pharmacokinetics of granisetron were determined following a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride .
Elderly In elderly volunteers ( mean age 71 years ) pharmacokinetic parameters following a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride , lower clearance and longer half - life were observed compared to younger healthy volunteers .
Renal Failure Patients Total clearance of granisetron was not affected in patients with severe renal failure who received a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride .
Hepatically - Impaired Patients In patients with hepatic impairment due to neoplastic liver involvement , total plasma clearance following a single 40 mcg / kg intravenous dose of granisetron hydrochloride was approximately halved compared to patients without hepatic impairment .
Given the wide variability in pharmacokinetic parameters of granisetron and the good tolerance of doses well above the recommended dose , dose adjustment in patients with hepatic functional impairment is not necessary .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility In a 24 - month carcinogenicity study , rats were treated orally with granisetron 1 , 5 or 50 mg / kg / day ( 6 , 30 or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
The 50 mg / kg / day dose was reduced to 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day ) during week 59 due to toxicity .
For a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 body surface area ) , these doses represent about 2 . 6 , 13 and 65 times the recommended clinical dose ( 3 . 1 mg / day , 2 . 3 mg / m2 / day , delivered by the Sancuso patch , on a body surface area basis ) .
There was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas in males treated with 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , about 13 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) and above , and in females treated with 25 mg / kg / day ( 150 mg / m2 / day , about 65 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) .
No increase in liver tumors was observed at a dose of 1 mg / kg / day ( 6 mg / m2 / day , about 2 . 6 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) in males and 5 mg / kg / day ( 30 mg / m2 / day , about 13 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) in females .
In a 12 - month oral toxicity study , treatment with granisetron 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , about 261 times the recommended human dose with Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) produced hepatocellular adenomas in male and female rats while no such tumors were found in the control rats .
A 24 - month mouse carcinogenicity study of granisetron did not show a statistically significant increase in tumor incidence , but the study was not conclusive .
Because of the tumor findings in rat studies , Sancuso should be prescribed only at the dose and for the indication recommended ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Granisetron was not mutagenic in an in vitro Ames test and mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , and in vivo mouse micronucleus test and in vitro and ex vivo rat hepatocyte UDS assays .
It , however , produced a significant increase in UDS in HeLa cells in vitro and a significant increased incidence of cells with polyploidy in an in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration test .
Granisetron at subcutaneous doses up to 6 mg / kg / day ( 36 mg / m2 / day , about 16 times the recommended human dose of Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) , and oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( 600 mg / m2 / day , about 261 times the recommended human dose of Sancuso , on a body surface area basis ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 2 Phototoxicity When tested for potential photogenotoxicity in vitro in a Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line , at 200 and 300 mcg / ml , granisetron increased the percentage of cells with chromosomal aberration following photoirradiation .
Granisetron was not phototoxic when tested in vitro in a mouse fibroblast cell line .
When tested in vivo in guinea - pigs , Sancuso patches did not show any potential for photoirritation or photosensitivity .
No phototoxicity studies have been performed in humans .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of Sancuso in the prevention of chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting ( CINV ) was evaluated in a Phase 3 randomized , parallel group , double - blind , double - dummy study conducted in the U . S . and abroad .
The study compared the efficacy , tolerability and safety of Sancuso with that of 2 mg oral granisetron once daily in the prevention of nausea and vomiting in a total of 641 patients receiving multi - day chemotherapy .
The population randomized into the trial included 48 % males and 52 % females aged 16 to 86 years receiving moderately ( ME ) or highly emetogenic ( HE ) multi - day chemotherapy .
Seventy - eight ( 78 % ) of patients were White , 12 % Asian , 10 % Hispanic / Latino and 0 % Black .
The granisetron patch was applied 24 to 48 hours before the first dose of chemotherapy , and kept in place for 7 days .
Oral granisetron was administered daily for the duration of the chemotherapy regimen , one hour before each dose of chemotherapy .
Efficacy was assessed from the first administration until 24 hours after the start of the last day ' s administration of the chemotherapy regimen .
The primary endpoint of the trial was the proportion of patients achieving no vomiting and / or retching , no more than mild nausea and no rescue medication from the first administration until 24 hours after the start of the last day ' s administration of multi - day chemotherapy .
Using this definition , the effect of Sancuso was established in 60 . 2 % of patients in the Sancuso arm and 64 . 8 % of patients receiving oral granisetron ( difference - 4 . 89 % ; 95 % confidence interval - 12 . 91 % to + 3 . 13 % ) .
An assessment of patch adhesion in 621 patients receiving either active or placebo patches showed that less than 1 % of patches became detached over the course of the 7 day period of patch application .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sancuso ( Granisetron Transdermal System ) is supplied as a 52 cm2 patch containing 34 . 3 mg of granisetron .
Each patch is printed on one side with the words " Granisetron 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours " .
Each patch is packaged in a separate sealed foil - lined plastic pouch .
Sancuso is available in packages of 1 ( NDC 54868 - 5985 - 0 ) patch .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Sancuso should be stored in the original packaging .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( 17 . 4 ) 17 . 1 Gastrointestinal Because the use of granisetron may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distention caused by the underlying condition , patients should be instructed to tell their physician if they have pain or swelling in their abdomen .
17 . 2 Skin Reactions Patients should be instructed to remove the patch if they have a severe skin reaction , or a generalized skin reaction ( e . g . allergic rash , including erythematous , macular , papular rash or pruritus ) .
When patients remove the patch , they should be instructed to peel it off gently .
17 . 3 Exposure to Sunlight Granisetron may be degraded by direct sunlight or exposure to sunlamps .
In addition , an in vitro study using Chinese hamster ovary cells suggests that granisetron has the potential for photogenotoxicity ( see Section 13 . 2 ) .
Patients must be advised to cover the patch application site , e . g . with clothing , if there is a risk of exposure to sunlight or sunlamps throughout the period of wear and for 10 days following its removal .
17 . 4 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Rx Only Manufactured by : Aveva Drug Delivery Systems Inc . , Miramar FL 33025 Manufactured for : ProStrakan Inc . , Bedminster NJ 07921 Copyright © 2008 , ProStrakan Inc .
All rights reserved .
Sancuso and ProStrakan are trademarks owned by the ProStrakan group of companies Revised : September 2011 Additional barcode label applied by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient Information Sancuso ® [ san - KOO - so ] ( granisetron transdermal system ) IMPORTANT : For skin use only Read the Patient Information that comes with Sancuso before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
If you have any questions about Sancuso , ask your healthcare provider .
What is Sancuso ?
Sancuso is a prescription medicine used to prevent nausea and vomiting in people receiving some types of chemotherapy treatment .
Sancuso is a skin patch that slowly releases the medicine contained in the adhesive ( glue ) , through clean and intact skin areas into your bloodstream while you wear the patch .
Important : Sancuso contains granisetron , the same medicine in Kytril .
Do not take Kytril at the same time you use Sancuso unless your healthcare provider tells you it is alright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Who should not use Sancuso ?
Do not use Sancuso if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in Sancuso .
See the end of this leaflet for a list of ingredients in Sancuso .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using Sancuso ?
Tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • are allergic to medical adhesive tape , adhesive dressings or other skin patches .
• have pain or swelling in your stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• are pregnant .
It is not known if Sancuso will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if Sancuso passes into your breast milk .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Other medicines may affect how Sancuso works .
Sancuso may also affect how other medicines work .
How should Sancuso be used ?
Use Sancuso exactly as prescribed .
See the detailed Patient Instructions for Applying Sancuso at the end of this Patient Information leaflet .
Avoid sunlight .
The medicine in Sancuso ( granisetron ) may not work as well and / or may affect your skin if exposed to direct sunlight or the light from sunlamps or tanning beds .
It is important to do the following : • While you wear the patch , keep it covered with clothing if you will be in sunlight or near a sunlamp , including tanning beds .
• Keep the skin where Sancuso was applied covered for another 10 days after the patch is taken off to protect from exposure to direct sunlight .
What are the possible side effects of Sancuso ?
Sancuso can cause serious side effects : • Using Sancuso may make it harder to identify certain stomach and bowel problems that are from other causes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any stomach area ( abdominal ) pain or swelling while using Sancuso .
• Skin reactions .
Skin reactions can happen just at the patch application site or outside the patch application site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any redness , rashes , bumps , blisters or itching at the patch application site , and especially if they spread outside the place where the patch was or if they appear outside the patch application site .
You may need to stop using Sancuso .
Common side effects of Sancuso are : • constipation • headache .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Sancuso .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Sancuso ?
• Keep Sancuso in the package it comes in .
• Store Sancuso at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Keep Sancuso out of the reach of children .
General information about Sancuso Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use Sancuso for a condition for which it is not prescribed .
Do not give Sancuso to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Sancuso .
If you would like more information , talk to your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about Sancuso that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . sancuso . com or call 1 - 800 - SANCUSO .
Patient Instructions for Applying Sancuso When do I apply the Sancuso patch ?
• Apply Sancuso at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) before your scheduled chemotherapy treatment .
• You may apply Sancuso up to 2 days ( 48 hours ) before your scheduled chemotherapy .
• Wear the patch all the time during your chemotherapy .
• Sancuso may be worn for up to 7 days , depending on how long your chemotherapy treatment lasts ( up to 5 days ) .
• Remove the patch at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) after your chemotherapy is finished .
• Keep the patch covered , such as under clothing , while you are wearing it to avoid a skin reaction to sunlight or sunlamps .
Keep the skin where Sancuso was applied ( application site ) covered up for another 10 days after the patch is taken off to prevent a skin reaction .
See " What should I avoid while using Sancuso ? "
Where do I apply the Sancuso patch ?
• Apply Sancuso to a clean , dry , healthy area of skin on the outside part of your upper arm .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The area you choose should not be oily , recently shaved or have any skin problems such as being damaged ( cut or scraped ) or irritated ( redness or a rash ) .
• Do not apply Sancuso to areas that have been treated with creams , oils , lotions , powders or other skin products that could keep the patch from sticking well to your skin .
How do I apply the Sancuso patch ?
The Sancuso patch comes inside a pouch which is inside the carton .
• Do not remove the patch from the pouch until you are ready to use it .
• Do not cut the Sancuso patch into pieces .
• Remove the pouch from the carton .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Tear the pouch open using the slit provided , and remove the patch .
Each pouch contains one Sancuso patch stuck onto a rigid plastic film , and a separate thin , clear protective liner .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the thin , clear protective liner to expose the printed side of the patch .
Throw away the liner .
The protective liner is only included in the pouch to separate the patch from the inside of the pouch , and is not part of the patch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • The unprinted , sticky side of the patch is covered by a two - piece rigid plastic film .
Bend the patch in the middle and remove one half of the rigid plastic film .
Be careful not to stick the patch to itself and avoid touching the sticky side of the patch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • While holding the remaining half of the rigid plastic film , apply the patch to your skin .
Remove the second half of the rigid plastic film and press the whole patch firmly in place with your fingers and smooth down .
Press firmly making sure it sticks well to the skin , especially around the edges .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Wash your hands right away after applying the patch to remove any medicine that may have stuck to your fingers .
• Keep the patch in place for the whole time you are having chemotherapy .
Remove the patch at least 1 day ( 24 hours ) after your chemotherapy is finished .
The patch can be worn for up to 7 days , depending on the number of days your chemotherapy treatment lasts .
• Do not re - use the patch after you remove it .
See below for instructions on the right way to remove and throw away the patch .
What to do if the Sancuso patch does not stick well ?
If the patch does not stick well , you may use surgical bandages or medical adhesive tape to keep the patch in place .
Place tape or bandages on the edges of the patch .
Do not completely cover the patch with bandages or tape and do not wrap completely around your arm .
If the patch comes more than half off or it becomes damaged see your healthcare provider .
Can I bathe or shower while wearing Sancuso ?
You can continue to shower and wash normally while wearing the Sancuso patch .
It is not known how other activities , for example swimming , strenuous exercise or using a sauna or whirlpool , may affect Sancuso .
Avoid these activities while wearing Sancuso .
How do I remove and dispose of Sancuso ?
• When you remove the patch , peel it off gently .
• The used patch will still contain some of the medicine .
After removing the used Sancuso patch , fold it in half so that the sticky side sticks to itself .
Throw away the Sancuso patch in the garbage , out of the reach of children and pets .
Do not re - use the patch .
• After removing the patch you may find some adhesive is left on your skin .
Gently wash the area with soap and water to remove it .
Do not use alcohol or other dissolving liquids , such as nail polish remover .
These may cause skin irritation .
• Wash your hands after handling the patch .
• You may see mild redness on the skin where the patch is removed .
This redness should go away within three days .
If redness continues , tell your healthcare provider .
What are the ingredients in Sancuso ?
Active ingredient : granisetron .
Inactive ingredients : acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer , polyester , titanium dioxide , polyamide resin and polyethylene wax .
Manufactured by : Aveva Drug Delivery Systems Inc . , Miramar , FL 33025 Manufactured for : ProStrakan Inc . , Bedminster , NJ 07921 Copyright © 2008 ProStrakan Inc .
All rights reserved .
Sancuso and ProStrakan are trademarks owned by the ProStrakan group of companies Revised : 07 / 2008 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 54868 - 5985 - 0 Sancuso ® ( Granisetron Transdermal System ) 3 . 1 mg / 24 hours Rx Only 7 day patch Each 52 cm2 patch contains 34 . 3 mg of granisetron in an acrylate - vinylacetate copolymer adhesive 1 patch www . sancuso . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
