Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 04 / 2020 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Bivalirudin for Injection is indicated for use as an anticoagulant for use in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) including patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome .
Bivalirudin for Injection is a direct thrombin inhibitor indicated for use as an anticoagulant in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) including patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) or heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome ( HITTS ) .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dosage is a 0 . 75 mg / kg intravenous bolus dose followed immediately by a 1 . 75 mg / kg / h intravenous infusion for the duration of the procedure .
Five minutes after the bolus dose has been administered , an activated clotting time ( ACT ) should be performed and an additional bolus dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg should be given if needed .
• Extending duration of infusion post - procedure up to 4 hours should be considered in patients with ST segment elevation MI ( STEMI ) .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Bivalirudin for Injection is for intravenous administration only .
Bivalirudin for Injection has been studied only in patients receiving concomitant aspirin .
The recommended dose of Bivalirudin for Injection is an intravenous ( IV ) bolus dose of 0 . 75 mg / kg , followed immediately by an infusion of 1 . 75 mg / kg / h for the duration of the procedure .
Five minutes after the bolus dose has been administered , an activated clotting time ( ACT ) should be performed and an additional bolus of 0 . 3 mg / kg should be given if needed .
Extended duration of infusion following PCI at 1 . 75 mg / kg / h for up to 4 hours post - procedure should be considered in patients with ST segment elevation MI ( STEMI ) .
2 . 2 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment Bolus Dose No reduction in the bolus dose is needed for any degree of renal impairment .
Maintenance Infusion In patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ( by Cockcroft Gault equation ) , reduce the infusion rate to 1 mg / kg / h .
Monitor anticoagulant status in patients with renal impairment .
In patients on hemodialysis , reduce the infusion rate to 0 . 25 mg / kg / h [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Instructions for Preparation and Administration Bivalirudin for Injection is intended for intravenous bolus injection and continuous infusion after reconstitution and dilution .
Preparation Instructions for Bolus Injection and Continuous Infusion • To each 250 mg vial , add 5 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
• Gently swirl until all material is dissolved .
• Withdraw and discard 5 mL from a 50 mL infusion bag containing 5 % Dextrose in Water or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride for Injection .
• Add the contents of the reconstituted vial to the infusion bag containing 5 % Dextrose in Water or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride for Injection to yield a final concentration of 5 mg / mL ( e . g . , 1 vial in 50 mL ; 2 vials in 100 mL ; 5 vials in 250 mL ) .
• Adjust the dose to be administered according to the patient ' s weight ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Dosing Table Weight ( kg ) Using 5 mg / mL Concentration Bolus 0 . 75 mg / kg ( mL ) Infusion 1 . 75 mg / kg / h ( mL / h ) 43 - 47 7 16 48 - 52 7 . 5 17 . 5 53 - 57 8 19 58 - 62 9 21 63 - 67 10 23 68 - 72 10 . 5 24 . 5 73 - 77 11 26 78 - 82 12 28 83 - 87 13 30 88 - 92 13 . 5 31 . 5 93 - 97 14 33 98 - 102 15 35 103 - 107 16 37 108 - 112 16 . 5 38 . 5 113 - 117 17 40 118 - 122 18 42 123 - 127 19 44 128 - 132 19 . 5 45 . 5 133 - 137 20 47 138 - 142 21 49 143 - 147 22 51 148 - 152 22 . 5 52 . 5 Drug Compatibilities No incompatibilities have been observed with administration sets .
Do not administer the drugs listed in Table 2 in the same intravenous line with Bivalirudin for Injection .
Table 2 : Drugs Not for Administration in the Same Intravenous Line with Bivalirudin for Injection Alteplase Amiodarone HCl Amphotericin B Chlorpromazine HCl Diazepam Dobutamine Prochlorperazine Edisylate Reteplase Streptokinase Vancomycin HCl Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Preparations of Bivalirudin for Injection containing particulate matter should not be used .
Reconstituted material will be a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
2 . 4 Storage after Reconstitution Do not freeze reconstituted or diluted Bivalirudin for Injection .
Reconstituted material may be stored at 2 to 8ºC for up to 24 hours .
Diluted Bivalirudin for Injection with a concentration of between 0 . 5 mg / mL and 5 mg / mL is stable at room temperature for up to 24 hours .
Discard any unused portion of reconstituted solution remaining in the vial .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 250 mg of bivalirudin in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
Each vial contains 250 mg of bivalirudin equivalent to an average of 270 mg bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * .
Following reconstitution with Sterile Water for Injection , the product is a clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution , pH 5 to 6 .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 260 to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 0 to 2 . 2 equivalents .
For injection : 250 mg of bivalirudin in a single - dose vial for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Bivalirudin for Injection is contraindicated in patients with : • Active major bleeding ; • Hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to bivalirudin or its components [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 3 ) ] .
• Active major bleeding ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to bivalirudin or its components ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Bleeding events : Bivalirudin for Injection increases the risk of bleeding .
( 5 . 1 , 6 . 1 , 12 . 2 ) • Acute Stent Thrombosis : Increased incidence of acute stent thrombosis in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) • Thrombotic Risk with Coronary Artery Brachytherapy : An increased risk of thrombus formation , including fatal outcomes , in gamma brachytherapy .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Bleeding Events Bivalirudin for Injection increases the risk of bleeding [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
An unexplained fall in blood pressure or hematocrit should lead to serious consideration of a hemorrhagic event and cessation of bivalirudin administration .
Monitor patients receiving Bivalirudin for Injection for signs and symptoms of bleeding .
Monitor patients with disease states associated with an increased risk of bleeding more frequently for bleeding .
5 . 2 Acute Stent Thrombosis in Patients with STEMI Undergoing PCI Acute stent thrombosis ( AST ) ( < 4 hours ) has been observed at a greater frequency in Bivalirudin for Injection treated patients ( 1 . 2 % , 36 / 2 , 889 ) compared to heparin treated patients ( 0 . 2 % , 6 / 2 , 911 ) with STEMI undergoing primary PCI .
Among patients who experienced an AST , one fatality ( 0 . 03 % ) occurred in a bivalirudin treated patient and one fatality ( 0 . 03 % ) in a heparin treated patient .
These patients have been managed by Target Vessel Revascularization ( TVR ) .
Patients should remain for at least 24 hours in a facility capable of managing ischemic complications and should be carefully monitored following primary PCI for signs and symptoms consistent with myocardial ischemia .
5 . 3 Thrombotic Risk with Coronary Artery Brachytherapy An increased risk of thrombus formation , including fatal outcomes , has been associated with the use of Bivalirudin for Injection in gamma brachytherapy .
If a decision is made to use Bivalirudin for Injection during brachytherapy procedures , maintain meticulous catheter technique , with frequent aspiration and flushing , paying special attention to minimizing conditions of stasis within the catheter or vessels [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction ( > 2 % ) was bleeding .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In the BAT trials , 79 of the 2161 ( 3 . 7 % ) patients undergoing PCI for treatment of unstable angina and randomized to Bivalirudin for Injection experienced major bleeding events which consisted of : intracranial bleeding , retroperitoneal bleeding , and clinically overt bleeding with a decrease in hemoglobin > 3 g / dL or leading to a transfusion of > 2 units of blood .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all peptides , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Additionally , the observed incidence of antibody ( including neutralizing antibody ) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to bivalirudin in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other products may be misleading .
In in vitro studies , bivalirudin exhibited no platelet aggregation response against sera from patients with a history of HIT / HITTS .
Among 494 subjects who received bivalirudin in clinical trials and were tested for antibodies , 2 subjects had treatment - emergent positive bivalirudin antibody tests .
Neither subject demonstrated clinical evidence of allergic or anaphylactic reactions and repeat testing was not performed .
Nine additional patients who had initial positive tests were negative on repeat testing .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience Because postmarketing adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of bivalirudin : fatal bleeding ; hypersensitivity and allergic reactions including reports of anaphylaxis ; lack of anticoagulant effect ; thrombus formation during PCI with and without intracoronary brachytherapy , including reports of fatal outcomes ; pulmonary hemorrhage ; cardiac tamponade ; and INR increased .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In clinical trials in patients undergoing PCI / percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( PTCA ) , co - administration of bivalirudin with heparin , warfarin , thrombolytics , or GPIs was associated with increased risks of major bleeding events compared to patients not receiving these concomitant medications .
Heparin , warfarin , thrombolytics , or GPIs : Increased major bleeding risk with concomitant use .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric patients : Increased bleeding risk possible .
( 8 . 5 ) • Renal impairment : Reduce infusion dose and monitor ACT .
( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data available on use of Bivalirudin for Injection in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk of adverse developmental outcomes .
Reproduction studies in rats and rabbits administered subcutaneously doses up to 1 . 6 times and 3 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 15 mg / kg / day based on body surface area ( BSA ) during organogenesis , respectively , revealed no evidence of fetal harm .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Reproductive studies have been performed in rats at subcutaneous doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and rabbits at subcutaneous doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) .
These studies revealed no harm to the fetus attributable to bivalirudin .
At 500 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to 5 . 4 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) subcutaneously , litter sizes and live fetuses in rats were reduced .
Fetal skeletal variations were also noted .
Some of these changes could be attributed to maternal toxicity observed at high doses .
There is no study covering the peri - natal period because of the potential complications of drug - induced hemorrhage during delivery .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether bivalirudin is present in human milk .
No data are available on the effects on the breastfed child or on milk production .
Bivalirudin was administered to lactating rats in reproduction studies ( see Data ) .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Bivalirudin for Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from Bivalirudin for Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data Reproduction studies conducted in lactating female rats dosed subcutaneously daily with bivalirudin at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose , based on body surface area ) from day 2 through day 20 of lactation revealed no adverse developmental outcomes to the pups .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of bivalirudin in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In studies of patients undergoing PCI , 44 % were ≥ 65 years of age and 12 % of patients were ≥ 75 years old .
Elderly patients experienced more bleeding events than younger patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment The disposition of bivalirudin was studied in PTCA patients with mild , moderate and severe renal impairment .
The clearance of bivalirudin was reduced approximately 21 % in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment and was reduced approximately 70 % in dialysis - dependent patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Reduce the infusion dose of bivalirudin and monitor the anticoagulant status more frequently in patients with renal impairment creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ( by Cockcroft Gault equation ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Cases of overdose of up to 10 times the recommended bolus or continuous infusion dose of bivalirudin have been reported in clinical trials and in postmarketing reports .
A number of the reported overdoses were due to failure to adjust the infusion dose of bivalirudin in persons with renal dysfunction including persons on hemodialysis [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Bleeding , as well as deaths due to hemorrhage , have been observed in some reports of overdose .
In cases of suspected overdosage , discontinue bivalirudin immediately and monitor the patient closely for signs of bleeding .
There is no known antidote to bivalirudin .
Bivalirudin is hemodialyzable [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Bivalirudin for Injection contains bivalirudin which is a specific and reversible direct thrombin inhibitor .
Bivalirudin is a synthetic , 20 amino acid peptide , with the chemical name of D - phenylalanyl - L - prolyl - L - arginyl - L - prolyl - glycyl - glycyl - glycyl - glycyl - L - asparagyl - glycyl - L - aspartyl - L - phenylalanyl - L - glutamyl - L - glutamyl - L - isoleucyl - L - prolyl - L - glutamyl - L - glutamyl - L - tyrosyl - L - leucine .
The active pharmaceutical ingredient is in the form of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate as a white to off - white powder .
The chemical name for bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is D - phenylalanyl - L - prolyl - L - arginyl - L - prolyl - glycyl - glycyl - glycyl - glycyl - L - asparagyl - glycyl - L - aspartyl - L - phenylalanyl - L - glutamyl - L - glutamyl - L - isoleucyl - L - prolyl - L - glutamyl - L - glutamyl - L - tyrosyl - L - leucine trifluoroacetate ( Figure 1 ) .
The molecular weight of bivalirudin is 2 , 180 daltons ( anhydrous free base peptide ) .
Figure 1 .
Structural formula for bivalirudin trifluoroacetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] Bivalirudin for Injection is supplied as a sterile white lyophilized cake , in single - dose vials .
Each vial contains 250 mg bivalirudin , equivalent to an average of 270 mg of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * , 125 mg mannitol , and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 5 to 6 ( equivalent of approximately 12 . 5 mg sodium ) .
When reconstituted with Sterile Water for Injection , the product yields a clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution , pH 5 to 6 .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 260 mg to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 0 to 2 . 2 equivalents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bivalirudin directly inhibits thrombin by specifically binding both to the catalytic site and to the anion binding exosite of circulating and clot - bound thrombin .
Thrombin is a serine proteinase that plays a central role in the thrombotic process , acting to cleave fibrinogen into fibrin monomers and to activate Factor XIII to Factor XIIIa , allowing fibrin to develop a covalently cross - linked framework which stabilizes the thrombus ; thrombin also activates Factors V and VIII , promoting further thrombin generation , and activates platelets , stimulating aggregation and granule release .
The binding of bivalirudin to thrombin is reversible as thrombin slowly cleaves the bivalirudin - Arg3 - Pro4 bond , resulting in recovery of thrombin active site functions .
In in vitro studies , bivalirudin inhibited both soluble ( free ) and clot - bound thrombin , was not neutralized by products of the platelet release reaction , and prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) , thrombin time ( TT ) , and prothrombin time ( PT ) of normal human plasma in a concentration - dependent manner .
The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In healthy volunteers and patients ( with ≥ 70 % vessel occlusion undergoing routine PTCA ) , bivalirudin exhibited dose - and concentration - dependent anticoagulant activity as evidenced by prolongation of the ACT , aPTT , PT , and TT .
Intravenous administration of bivalirudin produces an immediate anticoagulant effect .
Coagulation times return to baseline approximately 1 hour following cessation of bivalirudin administration .
Bivalirudin for Injection also increases INR .
Therefore INR measurements made in Bivalirudin for Injection treated patients may not be useful for determining the appropriate dose of warfarin .
In 291 patients with ≥ 70 % vessel occlusion undergoing routine PTCA , a positive correlation was observed between the dose of bivalirudin and the proportion of patients achieving ACT values of 300 sec or 350 sec .
At a bivalirudin dose of 1 mg / kg IV bolus plus 2 . 5 mg / kg / h IV infusion for 4 hours , followed by 0 . 2 mg / kg / h , all patients reached maximal ACT values > 300 sec .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Bivalirudin exhibits linear pharmacokinetics following IV administration to patients undergoing PTCA .
In these patients , a mean steady state bivalirudin concentration of 12 . 3 ± 1 . 7 mcg / mL is achieved following an IV bolus of 1 mg / kg and a 4 - hour 2 . 5 mg / kg / h IV infusion .
Distribution Bivalirudin does not bind to plasma proteins ( other than thrombin ) or to red blood cells .
Elimination Bivalirudin has a half - life of 25 minutes in PTCA patients with normal renal function .
The total body clearance of bivalirudin in PTCA patients with normal renal function is 3 . 4 mL / min / kg .
Metabolism Bivalirudin is metabolized by proteolytic cleavage .
Excretion Bivalirudin undergoes glomerular filtration .
Tubular secretion and tubular reabsorption are also implicated in the excretion of bivalirudin , although the extent is unknown .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment Total body clearance was similar for PTCA patients with normal renal function and with mild renal impairment .
Clearance was reduced by 21 % in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment with a half - life of 34 and 57 minutes , respectively .
In dialysis patients , clearance was reduced by 70 % , with a half - life of 3 . 5 hours .
Approximately 25 % bivalirudin is cleared by hemodialysis .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of bivalirudin .
Bivalirudin displayed no genotoxic potential in the in vitro bacterial cell reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) , the in vitro Chinese hamster ovary cell forward gene mutation test ( CHO / HGPRT ) , the in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay , the in vitro rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) assay , and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay .
Fertility and general reproductive performance in rats were unaffected by subcutaneous doses of bivalirudin up to 150 mg / kg / day , about 1 . 6 times the dose on a body surface area basis ( mg / m2 ) of a 50 kg person given the maximum recommended dose of 15 mg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Bivalirudin Angioplasty Trial ( BAT ) In the BAT studies , patients with unstable angina undergoing PCI were randomized 1 : 1 to a 1 mg / kg bolus of bivalirudin and then 2 . 5 mg / kg / h for four hours and then 0 . 2 mg / kg / h for 14 - 20 hours or to 175 IU / kg bolus of heparin followed by an 18 - 24 hour infusion of 15 IU / kg / h infusion .
Additional heparin but not bivalirudin could be administered for ACT < 350 seconds .
The studies were designed to demonstrate the superiority of bivalirudin to heparin on the occurrence of any of the following during hospitalization up to seven days of death , MI , abrupt closure of dilated vessel , or clinical deterioration requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump .
The 4312 subjects ranged in age from 29 - 90 ( median 63 ) years .
68 % were male , and 91 % were Caucasian .
Median weight was 80 kg ( 39 - 120 kg ) .
741 ( 17 % ) subjects had post - MI angina .
Twenty - three percent of patients were treated with heparin within one hour prior to randomization .
The studies did not demonstrate that bivalirudin was statistically superior to heparin for reducing the risk of death , MI , abrupt closure of the dilated vessel , or clinical deterioration requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump , but the occurrence of these events was similar in both treatment groups .
Study outcomes are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Incidences of In - hospital Endpoints in BAT Trial 1 A composite of death or MI or clinical deterioration of cardiac origin requiring revascularization or placement of an aortic balloon pump or angiographic evidence of abrupt vessel closure .
Endpoint BIVALIRUDIN ( n = 2161 ) HEPARIN ( n = 2151 ) Primary Endpoint1 7 . 9 % 9 . 3 % Death , MI , revascularization 6 . 2 % 7 . 9 % Death 0 . 2 % 0 . 2 % MI 3 . 3 % 4 . 2 % AT - BAT Trial ( NCT # 00043940 ) This was a single - arm open - label study in which 51 patients with heparin - induced thrombocytopenia ( HIT ) or heparin - induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome ( HITTS ) underwent PCI .
The majority of patients achieved adequate ACT at the time of device activation and no major bleeding was reported .
Evidence for the diagnosis of HIT / HITTS was based on a clinical history of a decrease of platelets in patients after heparin administration [ new diagnosis or history of clinically suspected or objectively documented HIT / HITTS defined as either : 1 ) HIT : positive heparin - induced platelet aggregation ( HIPA ) or other functional assay where the platelet count has decreased to < 100 , 000 / mL ( minimum 30 % from prior to heparin ) , or has decreased to < 150 , 000 / mL ( minimum 40 % from prior to heparin ) , or has decreased as above within hours of receiving heparin in a patient with a recent , previous exposure to heparin ; 2 ) HITTS : thrombocytopenia as above plus arterial or venous thrombosis diagnosed by physician examination / laboratory and / or appropriate imaging studies ] .
Patients ranged in age from 48 to 89 years ( median 70 ) ; weight ranged from 42 to 123 kg ( median 76 ) ; 50 % were male and 50 % were female .
Bivalirudin was administered as either 1 mg / kg bolus followed by 2 . 5 mg / kg / h ( high dose in 28 patients ) or 0 . 75 mg / kg bolus followed by a 1 . 75 mg / kg / h infusion ( lower dose in 25 patients ) for up to 4 hours .
Ninety - eight percent of patients received aspirin , 86 % received clopidogrel and 19 % received GPIs .
The median ACT values at the time of device activation were 379 sec ( high dose ) and 317 sec ( lower dose ) .
Following the procedure , 48 of the 51 patients ( 94 % ) had TIMI grade 3 flow and stenosis < 50 % .
One patient died during a bradycardic episode 46 hours after successful PCI , another patient required surgical revascularization , and one patient experienced no flow requiring a temporary intra - aortic balloon .
Two of the fifty - one patients with the diagnosis of HIT / HITTS developed thrombocytopenia after receiving bivalirudin and GPIs .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Bivalirudin for Injection is supplied as a sterile , lyophilized powder in single - dose , glass vials .
Each vial contains 250 mg of bivalirudin equivalent to an average of 270 mg of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate * .
* The range of bivalirudin trifluoroacetate is 260 to 280 mg based on a range of trifluoroacetic acid composition of 1 . 0 to 2 . 2 equivalents .
Product No .
NDC No .
Strength PRX506210 63323 - 562 - 15 250 mg per vial 250 mg single - dose vial , packaged in tens .
Store Bivalirudin for Injection dosage units at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to watch carefully for any signs of bleeding or bruising and to report these to their health care provider when they occur .
The brand names mentioned in this document are the trademarks of their respective owners .
PREMIERProRx ® is a registered trademark of Premier Healthcare Alliance , L . P . , used under license .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451563 A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Bivalirudin for Injection 250 mg Single Dose Vial Label NDC 63323 - 562 - 41 Bivalirudin for Injection 250 mg per vial For intravenous use only .
For single - dose only .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Bivalirudin for Injection 250 mg Single Dose Vial Tray Label NDC 63323 - 562 - 15 Bivalirudin for Injection 250 mg per vial For intravenous use only .
10 Single - dose vials .
Discard unused portion .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
