This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethanol Alcohol , 75 % v / v , antiseptic Purpose Daily cleaning of items and Antimicrobial Use This product is used to wipe hands , faces , skins , etc .
It can be used on hands , skin , electronic products , office supplies , tableware , children ' s toys , and a variety of surfaces .
Open the label , take out the wet towel , wipe the target area , and discard it in a trash receptacle .
Close package immediately after use to maintain purity .
Warnings Do not apply this product to red and swollen skin , wound , or any part sensitive to it .
Keep this product out of children ’ s reach .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes & wounded skin .
Discontinue use if irritation and redness develop .
If the condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult a physician .
Store it in a cool and dry place .
Flammable ; avoid direct sunlight and open fire .
And avoid contact with eyes and damaged skin .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds This product is used to wipe hands , skins , electronic products , office supplies , tableware , children ' s toys , and a variety of surfaces .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Use it as needed , after following the usage instructions .
For external use only .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Water Package Label - Principal Display Panel 010 mL NDC : 79935 - 001 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
