Active ingredients Drug Facts Clotrimazole 1 % Purpose Antifungal Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses • cures most jock itch • for effective relief of itching , scaling , burning , cracking , redness , soreness , irritation , discomfort Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use : on children under 2 years of age When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and consult a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 2 weeks Directions This product is not effective on the scalp or nails For jock itch : • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • use daily for 2 weeks Other information • store at temperature between 58 ° - 77 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients bees wax , cetryl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glyceryl stearate , methyl paraben , mineral oil , petrolatum , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propyl paraben , purified water , sorbitan tristerate , Sodium Hydroxide .
Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Clotrimazole USP 1 % Jock Itch Antifungal Cream Cures most types of jock itch fungus Relieves • Itching • Burning • Scaling • Cracking Greaseless Odorless Non - staining NET WT .
1 . 5 OZ .
( 42 g ) DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS delivers outstanding quality in healthcare products , at truly amazing prices .
We employ the highest standard when searching the world to bring the best value to your doorstep .
Use our products confidently , knowing that attention and care has gone into every item .
That ' s smart wellness !
Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 48084 U . S . A . Code No .
MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
