Drug Facts Active Ingredient Pramoxine HCL 1 % Zinc oxide 12 . 5 % Purpose Local anesthetic Protectant Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses temporarily shrinks hemorrhoidal tissue temporarily relieves itching , burning and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have - heart disease , high blood pressure , thyroid disease , diabetes , difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use , if you are presently taking a prescription drug for high blood pressure or depression When using this product - do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor , do not use this product with an applicator , if the applicator into the rectum causes additional pain .
Consult a doctor promptly .
Stop use and ask a doctor if - you experience bleeding , condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days , these may be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions Direction for adults when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing tissue .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or soft cloth before application of this ointment , apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily , especially at night , in the morning or after each bowel movement Children under 12 years or age , ask a doctor .
Other information store between 59 째 and 86 째 F ( 15 째 and 30 째 C ) , close cap tightly after use , do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients balsam peru , benzyl benzoate , calcium phohsphate , cocoa butter , glyceryl monostearate , glyceryl monoleate , kaolin , mineral oil , Aloe vera extract Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Anesthetic Hemorrhoidal Ointment With Aloe Quick and soothing , pain relief from burning , itching and discomfort Shrinks swollen hemorrhoidal tissue NET WT .
1 . 5 OZ .
( 42 g ) DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS delivers outstanding quality in healthcare products , at truly amazing prices .
We employ the highest standard when searching the world to bring the best value to your doorstep .
Use our products confidently , knowing that attention and care has gone into every item That ' s smart wellness !
Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 484084 U . S . A . Code No . MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
