Rx only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY – NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL , OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION Clobetasol Propionate Gel , 0 . 05 % contains the active compound clobetasol propionate , a synthetic corticosteroid , for topical dermatologic use .
Clobetasol , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of glucocorticoid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Chemically , clobetasol propionate is ( 11ß , 16ß ) - 21 - chloro - 9 - fluoro - 11 - hydroxy - 16 - methyl - 17 - ( 1 - oxopropoxy ) - pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clobetasol propionate has the molecular formula C25H32CIFO5 and a molecular weight of 467 .
It is a white to cream - colored crystalline powder insoluble in water .
Clobetasol propionate gel contains clobetasol propionate 0 . 5 mg / g in a gel base composed of carbomer 974 P , propylene glycol , purified water , and sodium hydroxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Like other topical corticosteroids , clobetasol propionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressing with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours has not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Greater absorption was observed for the clobetasol propionate gel formulation as compared to the cream formulation in in vitro human skin penetration studies .
Studies performed with clobetasol propionate gel indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clobetasol propionate gel is a super - high potency corticosteroid formulation indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Treatment beyond 2 consecutive weeks is not recommended , and the total dosage should not exceed 50 g / week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
Use in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is not recommended .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clobetasol propionate gel is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
PRECAUTIONS General Clobetasol propionate is a highly potent topical corticosteroid that has been shown to suppress the HPA axis at doses as low as 2 g / day .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible HPA axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal from treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on therapy .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests .
Patients receiving super - potent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time , and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA suppression .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur that require supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , clobetasol propionate gel should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of clobetasol propionate gel should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Clobetasol propionate gel should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and should not be used on the face , groin , or axillae .
Information for Patients Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered , or wrapped so as to be occlusive unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report any signs of local adverse reactions to the physician .
• 5 .
Patients should inform their physicians that they are using clobetasol propionate gel if surgery is contemplated .
Laboratory Tests The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : • ACTH stimulation test • A . M . plasma cortisol test • Urinary free cortisol test Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clobetasol propionate .
Studies in the rat following subcutaneous administration at dosage levels up to 50 mcg / kg / day revealed that the females exhibited an increase in the number of resorbed embryos and a decrease in the number of living fetuses at the highest dose .
Clobetasol propionate was nonmutagenic in 3 different test systems : the Ames test , the Saccharomycescerevisiae gene conversion assay , and the E . coli B WP2 fluctuation test .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application to laboratory animals .
Clobetasol propionate has not been tested for teratogenicity when applied topically ; however , it is absorbed percutaneously , and when administered subcutaneously it was a significant teratogen in both the rabbit and mouse .
Clobetasol propionate has greater teratogenic potential than steroids that are less potent .
Teratogenicity studies in mice using the subcutaneous route resulted in fetotoxicity at the highest dose tested ( 1 mg / kg ) and teratogenicity at all dose levels tested down to 0 . 03 mg / kg .
These doses are approximately 1 . 4 and 0 . 04 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate gel .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate and skeletal abnormalities .
In rabbits , clobetasol propionate was teratogenic at doses of 3 and 10 mcg / kg .
These doses are approximately 0 . 02 and 0 . 05 times , respectively , the human topical dose of clobetasol propionate gel .
Abnormalities seen included cleft palate , cranioschisis , and other skeletal abnormalities .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of the teratogenic potential of clobetasol propionate in pregnant women .
Clobetasol propionate gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when clobetasol propionate gel is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of clobetasol propionate gel in children and infants have not been established ; therefore , use in children under 12 years of age is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , children are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment and of Cushing syndrome while on treatment .
Adverse effects includingstriae have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels , and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Geriatric Use A limited number of patients at or above 65 years of age ( n = 37 ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate gel in US clinical trials .
The number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , and no adverse events were reported in geriatric patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of clobetasol propionate gel in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In a controlled trial with clobetasol propionate gel , the only reported adverse reaction that was considered to be drug related was a report of burning sensation ( 1 . 8 % of treated patients ) .
In larger controlled clinical trials with other clobetasol propionate formulations , the most frequently reported adverse reactions have included burning , stinging , irritation , pruritus , erythema , folliculitis , cracking and fissuring of the skin , numbness of fingers , skin atrophy , and telangiectasia ( all less than 2 % ) .
Cushing syndrome has been reported in infants and adults as a result of prolonged use of topical clobetasol propionate formulations .
The following additional local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with super - high potency corticosteroids such as clobetasol propionate gel .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : dryness , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , irritation , striae , and miliaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied clobetasol propionate gel can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of clobetasol propionate gel to the affected skin areas twice daily and rub in gently and completely ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Clobetasol propionate gel is a super - high potency topical corticosteroid ; therefore , treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and amounts greater than 50 g / week should not be used .
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control has been achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Clobetasol propionate gel should not be used with occlusive dressings .
Geriatric Use : In studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with clobetasol propionate gel , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Clobetasol Propionate Gel , 0 . 05 % is supplied in 15 - g tubes ( NDC 50383 - 269 - 15 ) , 30 - g tubes ( NDC 50383 - 269 - 30 ) , and 60 - g tubes ( NDC 50383 - 269 - 60 ) .
Store between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate .
Rx only Rev . 269 : 02 2 / 13 Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 50383 - 269 - 60 AKORN Clobetasol Propionate Gel , 0 . 05 % For dermatologic use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ]
