Active ingredients Drug Facts Clotrimazole 1 % Purpose Antifungal Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot • relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort which accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and consult a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 2 weeks Directions This product is not effective on the scalp or nails • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
Pay special attention between the toes .
Wear well fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once a day .
• supervise children in the use of this product • use daily for 4 weeks • if condition persists longer , ask a doctor Other information • store at temperature between 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) • do not use if seal on tube is punctured or missing Inactive ingredients bees wax , cetryl alcohol , disodium EDTA , glyceryl stearate , methyl paraben , mineral oil , petrolatum , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , propyl paraben , purified water , sorbitan tristerate , Sodium Hydroxide .
Product Label DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS Clotrimazole USP 1 % Athlete ' s Foot Antifungal Cream Cures most major types of athlete ' s foot Relieves • Itching • Burning • Scaling • Cracking Greaseless Odorless Non - staining NET WT .
1 . 25 OZ .
( 35 g ) DRUGSTORE - Rx SMART WELLNESS delivers outstanding quality in healthcare products , at truly amazing prices .
We employ the highest standard when searching the world to bring the best value to your doorstep .
Use our products confidently , knowing that attention and care has gone into every item .
That ' s smart wellness !
Distributed by : PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS , LLC Troy , Michigan 48084 U . S . A . Code No .
MH / DRUGS / KD - 313 Made in India [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
