Active ingredients Camphor 3 . 00 % Menthol 1 . 00 % Phenol 1 . 50 % White Petrolatum 89 . 20 % Purpose Cold sore / fever blister treatment Skin Protectant Uses • • For treatment of cold sores / fever blisters on the face or lips • • Temporarily relieves the symptoms of itching and pain associated with cold sores / fever blisters • • Temporarily protects minor cuts , scrapes , burns and sores • • Helps prevent and temporarily protects chapped or cracked skin and lips Warnings For external use only : Do not use in the eyes or apply over large areas of the body .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a physician .
Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Use only as directed .
Stop use and consult a doctor if the condition persists or gets worse .
Do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • • Clean the affected area • • Apply a small amount of this product to the affected area 1 to 3 times daily • • Rub in gently • • May be covered with a sterile bandage • • Wash hands before and after applying cream • • Do not share this product with anyone • • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Eucalyptol , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Thymol , Tocopheryl Nicotinate Questions or comments ?
Call us toll - free at 1 - 877 - 242 - 3234 Monday - Friday , 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . EST .
Serious side effects associated with use of this product may be reported to this number .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Maximum Strength ( Camphor 3 . 00 % , Menthol 1 . 00 % , Phenol 1 . 50 % , White Petrolatum 89 . 20 % Cold Sore Treatment Temporary Relief of Pain and Discomfort !
Works on Contact Applies Clear With Tea Tree Oil Paraben Free Phthalate free Sulfate Free Medicated Cold Sore / Fever Blister Treatment & Skin Protectant Net Wt 0 . 07 oz ( 2 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
