• Indications and Usage , Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection ( 1 . 1 ) • 3 / 2022 • Indications and Usage , HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis ( 1 . 2 ) • 12 / 2021 • Dosage and Administration , Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older and Weighing at Least 35 kg ( 2 . 1 ) • 3 / 2022 • Dosage and Administration , HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg ( 2 . 2 ) • 3 / 2022 • Contraindications ( 4 ) • 12 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Comprehensive Management to Reduce the Risk of HIV - 1 Infection When VOCABRIA is Used for HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis ( 5 . 1 ) • 12 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Hypersensitivity Reactions ( 5 . 2 ) • 12 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Hepatotoxicity ( 5 . 3 ) • 12 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Depressive Disorders ( 5 . 4 ) • 12 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Risk of Adverse Reactions , Loss of Efficacy , or Reduced Concentration Due to Drug Interactions ( 5 . 5 ) • 12 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE HIV - 1 Treatment : VOCABRIA is an HIV - 1 integrase strand transfer inhibitor ( INSTI ) indicated in combination with EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) for short - term treatment of HIV - 1 infection in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg who are virologically suppressed ( HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL ) on a stable antiretroviral regimen with no history of treatment failure and with no known or suspected resistance to either cabotegravir or rilpivirine .
( 1 . 1 ) HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis : VOCABRIA is indicated in at - risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for short - term pre - exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV - 1 infection .
Individuals must have a negative HIV - 1 test prior to initiating VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP .
( 1 . 2 ) VOCABRIA may be used as : • • oral lead - in to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir prior to administration of CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) for HIV - 1 treatment or APRETUDE ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ) for HIV - 1 PrEP .
( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 ) • • oral therapy for patients who will miss planned injection dosing with CABENUVA for HIV - 1 treatment or APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP .
( 1 . 1 , 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection VOCABRIA is indicated in combination with EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) tablets for short - term treatment of HIV - 1 infection in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg who are virologically suppressed ( HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL ) on a stable antiretroviral regimen with no history of treatment failure and with no known or suspected resistance to either cabotegravir or rilpivirine , for use as [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] : • • oral lead - in to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir prior to administration of cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension , a component of CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) .
• • oral therapy for patients who will miss planned injection dosing with CABENUVA .
1 . 2 HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis VOCABRIA is indicated in at - risk adults and adolescents weighing at least 35 kg for short - term pre exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV - 1 infection .
Individuals must have a negative HIV - 1 test prior to initiating VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP .
VOCABRIA may be used as [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] : • • oral lead - in to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir prior to administration of APRETUDE ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ) .
• • oral PrEP for patients who will miss planned injection dosing with APRETUDE .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • One tablet of VOCABRIA 30 mg taken orally once daily in combination with 1 tablet of EDURANT 25 mg taken orally once daily with a meal : • • for approximately 1 month if oral lead - in is used for HIV - 1 treatment .
( 2 . 1 ) • • for up to 2 months to replace up to 2 consecutive missed monthly injections of CABENUVA ( 2 . 2 ) • Refer to 2 . 1 for dosing recommendations for missed injections .
( 2 . 1 ) • • HIV - 1 Screening : Screen all individuals for HIV - 1 infection prior to initiating VOCABRIA and APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP and at least once every 3 months while taking APRETUDE .
( 2 . 2 ) • • One tablet of VOCABRIA 30 mg taken orally once daily for approximately 1 month if oral lead - in is used for HIV - 1 PrEP .
Refer to 2 . 2 for dosing recommendations for missed injections .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older and Weighing at Least 35 kg Oral Lead - in Dosing to Assess Tolerability of Cabotegravir Consult the prescribing information for CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) before initiating VOCABRIA to ensure therapy with CABENUVA is appropriate .
See full prescribing information for CABENUVA .
Oral lead - in may be used to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir prior to the initiation of CABENUVA .
The recommended oral lead - in daily dose is one 30 - mg tablet of VOCABRIA with one 25 - mg tablet of EDURANT for approximately 1 month ( at least 28 days ) .
The last oral dose should be taken on the same day injections with CABENUVA are started .
Take VOCABRIA once daily with EDURANT at approximately the same time each day with a meal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because VOCABRIA is indicated in combination with EDURANT tablets , the prescribing information for EDURANT should also be consulted .
Recommended Oral Dosing to Replace Planned Missed Injections of CABENUVA Planned Missed Injections for Patients on the Monthly Dosing Schedule : If a patient plans to miss a monthly scheduled injection of CABENUVA by more than 7 days , take daily oral therapy for up to 2 months to replace missed injection visits .
For oral therapy with VOCABRIA and EDURANT , the recommended oral daily dose is one 30 ‑ mg tablet of VOCABRIA and one 25 - mg tablet of EDURANT .
Take VOCABRIA with EDURANT at approximately the same time each day with a meal .
The first dose of oral therapy should be taken 1 month ( + / - 7 days ) after the last injection dose of CABENUVA and continued until the day injection dosing is restarted .
For oral therapy with VOCABRIA and EDURANT of durations greater than 2 months , an alternative oral regimen is recommended .
See full prescribing information for CABENUVA to resume monthly injection dosing .
Planned Missed Injections for Patients on the Every - 2 - Month Dosing Schedule : If a patient plans to miss a scheduled every - 2 - month injection of CABENUVA by more than 7 days , take daily oral therapy for up to 2 months to replace 1 missed scheduled every - 2 - month injection .
For oral therapy with VOCABRIA and EDURANT of durations greater than 2 months , the recommended oral daily dose is one 30 - mg tablet of VOCABRIA and one 25 - mg tablet of EDURANT .
Take VOCABRIA with EDURANT at approximately the same time each day with a meal .
The first dose of oral therapy should be taken approximately 2 months after the last injection dose of CABENUVA and continued until the day injection dosing is restarted .
For oral therapy with VOCABRIA and EDURANT of durations greater than 2 months , an alternative oral regimen is recommended .
See full prescribing information for CABENUVA to resume every - 2 - month injection dosing .
2 . 2 HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis in Adults and Adolescents Weighing at Least 35 kg HIV - 1 Screening for Individuals for HIV - 1 PrEP Individuals must be tested for HIV - 1 infection prior to initiating VOCABRIA and APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP , and with each subsequent injection of APRETUDE , using a test approved or cleared by the FDA for the diagnosis of acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
If an antigen / antibody - specific test is used and provides negative results , then such negative results should be confirmed using an RNA - specific assay , even if the results of the RNA - assay are available after VOCABRIA or APRETUDE administration [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Oral Lead - in Dosing to Assess Tolerability of Cabotegravir for HIV - 1 PrEP Consult the prescribing information for APRETUDE before initiating VOCABRIA to ensure use of APRETUDE is appropriate .
See full prescribing information for APRETUDE .
Oral lead - in may be used to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir prior to the initiation of APRETUDE .
The recommended oral daily dose is one 30 - mg tablet of VOCABRIA for approximately 1 month ( at least 28 days ) .
Following oral lead - in , start initiation injection of APRETUDE on the last day of oral lead - in or within 3 days .
Oral Dosing to Replace a Planned Missed Injection of APRETUDE ( One Every - 2 - Month Injection ) If an individual plans to miss a scheduled injection of APRETUDE by more than 7 days , take daily oral VOCABRIA to replace one every 2 - month injection visit .
The recommended oral daily dose is one 30 - mg tablet of VOCABRIA .
The first dose of oral VOCABRIA should be taken approximately 2 months after the last injection dose of APRETUDE .
Restart injection with APRETUDE on the day oral dosing completes or within 3 days .
See full prescribing information for APRETUDE to resume every - 2 - month injection dosing .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS VOCABRIA tablets are white , film - coated , oval tablets debossed with “ SV CTV ” on one side .
Each film - coated tablet contains 30 mg of cabotegravir ( equivalent to 31 . 62 mg cabotegravir sodium ) .
• Tablets : 30 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection VOCABRIA is contraindicated in patients : • • with previous hypersensitivity reaction to cabotegravir [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • receiving the following coadministered drugs for which significant decreases in cabotegravir plasma concentrations may occur due to uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) 1A1 enzyme induction , which may result in loss of virologic response [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : • oAnticonvulsants : Carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , phenobarbital , phenytoin • oAntimycobacterials : Rifampin , rifapentine Prior to initiation of VOCABRIA , note that use of CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) with rifabutin is contraindicated .
Since VOCABRIA is taken in combination with EDURANT tablets , the prescribing information for EDURANT should be consulted for additional contraindications .
HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis VOCABRIA is contraindicated in individuals : • • with unknown or positive HIV - 1 status [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • with previous hypersensitivity reaction to cabotegravir [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • receiving the following coadministered drugs for which significant decreases in cabotegravir plasma concentrations may occur due to UGT1A1 enzyme induction , which may result in loss of efficacy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : • oAnticonvulsants : Carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , phenobarbital , phenytoin • oAntimycobacterials : Rifampin , rifapentine • • Previous hypersensitivity reaction to cabotegravir .
( 4 ) • • Coadministration with carbamazepine , oxcarbazepine , phenobarbital , phenytoin , rifampin , and rifapentine .
( 4 ) • • Positive HIV - 1 status for HIV - 1 PrEP .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • HIV - 1 PrEP : Comprehensive management to reduce the risk of HIV - 1 acquisition .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in association with other integrase inhibitors .
Discontinue VOCABRIA immediately if signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions develop .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hepatotoxicity has been reported in patients receiving cabotegravir .
Monitoring of liver chemistries is recommended when VOCABRIA is used for HIV - 1 treatment .
Monitoring of clinical and laboratory parameters should be considered when VOCABRIA is used for HIV - 1 PrEP .
Discontinue VOCABRIA if hepatotoxicity is suspected .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Depressive disorders have been reported with VOCABRIA when used with EDURANT for HIV - 1 treatment .
Prompt evaluation is recommended for depressive symptoms .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Risks Associated with Combination Treatment : Review the prescribing information for EDURANT for information on rilpivirine prior to initiation of VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Comprehensive Management to Reduce the Risk of HIV - 1 Infection When VOCABRIA is Used for HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis Use of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP should be part of a comprehensive prevention strategy including adherence to the dosing schedule and safer sex practices , including condoms , to reduce the risk of sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
VOCABRIA is not always effective in preventing HIV - 1 acquisition [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The time from initiation of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP to maximal protection against HIV - 1 infection is unknown .
Risk for HIV - 1 acquisition includes behavioral , biological , or epidemiologic factors including , but not limited to , condomless sex , past or current STIs , self - identified HIV risk , having sexual partners of unknown HIV - 1 viremic status , or sexual activity in a high prevalence area or network .
Counsel individuals on the use of other prevention measures ( e . g . , consistent and correct condom use ; knowledge of partner ( s ) ’ HIV - 1 status , including viral suppression status ; regular testing for STIs that can facilitate HIV - 1 transmission ) .
Inform individuals about and support their efforts in reducing sexual risk behavior .
VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 should be used only in individuals confirmed to be HIV - 1 negative [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
HIV - 1 resistance substitutions may emerge in individuals with undiagnosed HIV - 1 infection who are taking only VOCABRIA , because VOCABRIA alone does not constitute a complete regimen for HIV - 1 treatment [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] ; therefore , care should be taken to minimize the risk of initiating or continuing VOCABRIA before confirming the individual is HIV - 1 negative .
• • Prior to initiating VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP , ask seronegative individuals about recent ( in past month ) potential exposure events ( e . g . , condomless sex or condom breaking during sex with a partner of unknown HIV - 1 status or unknown viremic status , a recent STI ) , and evaluate for current or recent signs or symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection ( e . g . , fever , fatigue , myalgia , skin rash ) .
• • If recent ( < 1 month ) exposures to HIV - 1 are suspected or clinical symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection are present , use a test approved or cleared by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
Testing should be repeated prior to each injection of APRETUDE and upon diagnosis of any other STIs [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• • If an HIV - 1 test indicates possible HIV - 1 infection , or if symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection develop following an exposure event , additional HIV testing to determine HIV status is needed .
If an individual has confirmed HIV - 1 infection , then the individual must be transitioned to a complete HIV - 1 treatment regimen .
Counsel HIV - 1 uninfected individuals to strictly adhere to the recommended dosing schedule for VOCABRIA in order to reduce the risk of HIV - 1 acquisition and the potential development of resistance [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
Some individuals , such as adolescents , may benefit from frequent visits and counseling to support adherence to the dosing schedule [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) , Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious or severe hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in association with other integrase inhibitors and could occur with VOCABRIA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Administration of oral lead - in dosing was used in clinical studies to help identify participants who may be at risk of a hypersensitivity reaction .
Remain vigilant and discontinue VOCABRIA if a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Discontinue VOCABRIA immediately if signs or symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions develop ( including , but not limited to , severe rash , or rash accompanied by fever , general malaise , fatigue , muscle or joint aches , blisters , mucosal involvement [ oral blisters or lesions ] , conjunctivitis , facial edema , hepatitis , eosinophilia , angioedema , difficulty breathing ) .
Clinical status , including liver transaminases , should be monitored and appropriate therapy initiated .
5 . 3 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity has been reported in a limited number of patients receiving cabotegravir with or without known pre - existing hepatic disease or identifiable risk factors [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
When VOCABRIA is Used for Treatment HIV - 1 Infection Patients with underlying liver disease or marked elevations in transaminases prior to treatment with VOCABRIA may be at increased risk for worsening or development of transaminase elevations .
Monitoring of liver chemistries is recommended and treatment with VOCABRIA should be discontinued if hepatotoxicity is suspected .
When VOCABRIA is Used for HIV - 1 PrEP Clinical and laboratory monitoring should be considered and VOCABRIA should be discontinued if hepatotoxicity is suspected and individuals managed as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Depressive Disorders When VOCABRIA is Used for Treatment HIV - 1 Infection Depressive disorders ( including depressed mood , depression , mood altered , mood swings ) have been reported with VOCABRIA when used with EDURANT for treatment of HIV - 1 infection [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Promptly evaluate patients with depressive symptoms to assess whether the symptoms are related to VOCABRIA and to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits .
When VOCABRIA is Used for HIV - 1 PrEP Depressive disorders ( including depression , depressed mood , persistent depressive disorder and suicide attempt ) have been reported with VOCABRIA [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Promptly evaluate individuals with depressive symptoms to assess whether the symptoms are related to VOCABRIA and to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits .
5 . 5 Risk of Adverse Reactions , Loss of Efficacy , or Reduced Concentration Due to Drug Interactions The concomitant use of VOCABRIA and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions , some of which may lead to adverse events , loss of efficacy from VOCABRIA when used for treatment of HIV - 1 infection or HIV - 1 PrEP , and possible development of viral resistance [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
See Table 1 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions , including dosing recommendations .
Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during use of VOCABRIA ; review concomitant medications during use of VOCABRIA [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 6 Risks Associated with Rilpivirine Treatment VOCABRIA is indicated for use in combination with EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) for treatment of HIV - 1 infection [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) , Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Review the prescribing information for EDURANT for information on rilpivirine prior to initiation of VOCABRIA in combination with rilpivirine .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are described below and in other sections of the labeling : • • Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Hepatotoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) • • Depressive disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • In HIV - 1 infected patients , the most common adverse reactions observed in at least 3 subjects receiving VOCABRIA were fatigue , headache , diarrhea , nausea , dizziness , abnormal dreams , anxiety , insomnia , abdominal discomfort , abdominal distension , and asthenia .
( 6 . 1 ) • • In HIV - 1 uninfected individuals receiving VOCABRIA , the most common adverse reactions reported in ≥ 1 % were headache , diarrhea , nausea , dizziness , upper respiratory tract infection , somnolence , fatigue , abnormal dreams , and abdominal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ViiV Healthcare at 1 - 877 - 844 - 8872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice .
See full prescribing information for CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) for additional safety information .
Since VOCABRIA is taken in combination with EDURANT tablets , the prescribing information for EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) should be consulted for relevant information on rilpivirine .
Adverse Reactions of VOCABRIA in Clinical Trials for the Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection The safety assessment of VOCABRIA for oral lead - in therapy prior to therapy with CABENUVA is based on the analysis of 48 - week data from virologically suppressed subjects with HIV - 1 infection in 3 international , multicenter , open - label trials , where 590 of 1 , 182 subjects received oral lead - in within the pivotal trials FLAIR and ATLAS ( pooled analysis ) and 655 of 1 , 045 subjects received oral lead - in within ATLAS - 2 M [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Adverse reactions were reported following exposure to VOCABRIA tablets and EDURANT tablets administered in combination as oral lead - in therapy ( median time exposure : 5 . 3 weeks ) .
Adverse reactions included those attributable to the oral formulation of cabotegravir and rilpivirine administered as a combination regimen .
Refer to the prescribing information for EDURANT for other adverse reactions associated with oral rilpivirine .
The most common adverse reactions during the oral lead - in period in the pooled analyses of FLAIR and ATLAS at Week 48 were headache , nausea , abnormal dreams , anxiety , and insomnia , all of which occurred in at least 3 subjects with an incidence ≤ 1 % .
The most common adverse reactions during the oral lead - in period for ATLAS - 2 M were fatigue , diarrhea , headache , nausea , dizziness , abdominal discomfort , abdominal distension , insomnia , and asthenia , all of which occurred in at least 3 subjects across both arms , with an incidence ≤ 2 % .
During the oral lead - in period for FLAIR and ATLAS , 6 ( 1 % ) subjects discontinued due to adverse events , including asthenia , myalgia , depression suicidal , and headache .
During the oral lead - in period for ATLAS - 2 M , 4 ( < 1 % ) subjects discontinued due to adverse events , including asthenia , skin lesion , fatigue , transaminases increased , and depression .
In the extension phase of the FLAIR study at Week 124 , the overall safety profile was consistent with that observed at Week 48 and when injection therapy with CABENUVA was initiated directly without the oral lead - in phase .
Clinical Trial Experience in Adolescents Based on data from the Week 16 analysis of the MOCHA study in 8 adolescents ( aged 12 to younger than 18 years and weighing ≥ 35 kg ) receiving background antiretroviral therapy , the safety profile during the oral lead - in period in adolescents was consistent with the safety profile established with cabotegravir in adults .
Adverse Reactions of VOCABRIA in HPTN 083 Trial for HIV - 1 PrEP Adverse reactions were reported while participants were on blinded study product following exposure to VOCABRIA tablets as oral lead - in for HIV - 1 PrEP ( median time exposure : 4 . 1 weeks ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported at ≥ 1 % during the oral lead - in period were diarrhea ( 4 % and 4 % ) , nausea ( 3 % and 5 % ) , dizziness ( 2 % and 2 % ) , headache ( 2 % and 2 % ) , fatigue ( 1 % and 2 % ) , and abnormal dreams ( 1 % and 2 % ) for VOCABRIA and TRUVADA ( emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) , respectively .
During the oral lead - in period , 24 ( 1 % ) participants receiving VOCABRIA discontinued due to adverse events , including increased alanine aminotransferase , increased aspartate aminotransferase , suicide attempt , and dizziness , which were observed in ≥ 2 participants .
Adverse Reactions of VOCABRIA in HPTN 084 Trial for HIV - 1 PrEP Adverse reactions were reported while participants were on blinded study product following exposure to VOCABRIA tablets as oral lead - in for HIV - 1 PrEP ( median time exposure : 4 . 1 weeks ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported at ≥ 1 % during the oral lead - in period were headache ( 6 % and 7 % ) , nausea ( 3 % and 7 % ) , dizziness ( 3 % and 4 % ) , diarrhea ( 2 % and 4 % ) , upper respiratory tract infection ( 2 % and 2 % ) , somnolence ( 2 % and 1 % ) , fatigue ( 1 % and 2 % ) , abdominal pain ( 1 % and 1 % ) , vomiting ( < 1 % and 3 % ) , decreased appetite ( < 1 % and 2 % ) , and pruritus ( < 1 % and 1 % ) for VOCABRIA and TRUVADA , respectively .
During the oral lead - in period , 4 ( < 1 % ) participants receiving VOCABRIA discontinued due to adverse events of increased alanine aminotransferase ( n = 3 ) and sleep disorders ( n = 1 ) .
Clinical Trials Experience in Adolescents In adolescents receiving VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP , the safety data were comparable to the safety data reported in adults receiving VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Refer to the full prescribing information for important drug interactions with VOCABRIA .
( 4 , 5 . 5 , 7 ) • • VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT is a complete regimen for HIV - 1 treatment .
Coadministration with other antiretroviral medications for PrEP is not recommended .
( 7 . 1 ) • • Drugs that induce uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) 1A1 may decrease the plasma concentrations of cabotegravir .
( 4 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Concomitant Use with Other Antiretroviral Medicines VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
Refer to the prescribing information for EDURANT for relevant information on rilpivirine .
Coadministration of VOCABRIA with other antiretroviral medications for PrEP is not recommended [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Prior to initiating dosing with VOCABRIA , the prescribing information for CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) or APRETUDE should be consulted to ensure use of CABENUVA or APRETUDE will be appropriate for either the treatment of HIV - 1 infection or HIV - 1 PrEP , respectively .
7 . 2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect VOCABRIA Cabotegravir is primarily metabolized by UGT1A1 with some contribution from UGT1A9 .
Drugs that are strong inducers of UGT1A1 or UGT1A9 are expected to decrease cabotegravir plasma concentrations and may result in loss of efficacy ; therefore , coadministration of VOCABRIA with these drugs is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Coadministration of oral cabotegravir with polyvalent cation - containing products may lead to decreased absorption of cabotegravir [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Information regarding potential drug interactions with cabotegravir are provided in Table 1 .
These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for loss of efficacy [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Table 1 includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive .
Refer to the prescribing information for EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) for established or potentially significant interactions that should be considered during concomitant administration of VOCABRIA and EDURANT for HIV - 1 treatment .
Table 1 .
Drug Interactions with VOCABRIA ↓ = Decrease .
a Rifabutin can be coadministered with cabotegravir ; however , it is contraindicated with CABENUVA for HIV - 1 treatment .
Dosage modification is recommended with APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP .
Concomitant Drug Class : Drug Name Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment Antacids containing polyvalent cations ( e . g . , aluminum or magnesium hydroxide , calcium carbonate ) ↓ Cabotegravir Administer antacid products at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after taking VOCABRIA .
Anticonvulsants : Carbamazepine Oxcarbazepine Phenobarbital Phenytoin ↓ Cabotegravir Coadministration is contraindicated with VOCABRIA due to potential for loss of efficacy and development of resistance [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Antimycobacterialsa : Rifampin Rifapentine ↓ Cabotegravir Antimycobacterial : Rifabutin ↓ Cabotegravir Dose modification is not required for VOCABRIA .
Dose modification is recommended for APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP .
Coadministration is contraindicated with CABENUVA for HIV - 1 treatment .
7 . 4 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with Cabotegravir Based on drug interaction study results , the following drugs can be coadministered with cabotegravir without a dose adjustment : etravirine , midazolam , oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol , rifabutin , and rilpivirine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Prior to initiating oral therapy , note that use of CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) with rifabutin is contraindicated for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
Dosage modification is recommended when APRETUDE is used with rifabutin for HIV - 1 PrEP .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended in HIV - 1 infected mothers due to the potential for HIV - 1 transmission .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to VOCABRIA during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry ( APR ) at 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Risk Summary There are insufficient human data on the use of VOCABRIA during pregnancy to adequately assess a drug - associated risk of birth defects and miscarriage .
While there are insufficient human data to assess the risk of neural tube defects ( NTDs ) with exposure to VOCABRIA during pregnancy , NTDs were associated with dolutegravir , another integrase inhibitor .
Discuss the benefit - risk of using VOCABRIA with individuals of childbearing potential or during pregnancy .
The APR has been established to monitor for birth defects following prenatal exposure to antiretrovirals .
The rate of miscarriage is not reported in the APR .
The background risk for major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
The background rate for major birth defects in a United States ( U . S . ) reference population of the Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program ( MACDP ) is 2 . 7 % .
The estimated background rate of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies in the U . S . general population is 15 % to 20 % .
The APR uses the MACDP as the U . S . reference population for birth defects in the general population .
The MACDP evaluates women and infants from a limited geographic area and does not include outcomes for births that occurred at < 20 weeks ’ gestation .
In animal reproduction studies with oral cabotegravir , a delay in the onset of parturition and increased stillbirths and neonatal deaths were observed in a rat pre - and postnatal development study at > 28 times the exposure at the recommended human dose ( RHD ) .
No evidence of adverse developmental outcomes was observed with oral cabotegravir in rats or rabbits ( > 28 times or similar to the exposure at the RHD , respectively ) given during organogenesis ( see Data ) .
Data Human Data : Data from a birth outcome surveillance study in Botswana showed that dolutegravir , another integrase inhibitor , was associated with increased risk of NTDs when administered at the time of conception and in early pregnancy .
Data from clinical trials are insufficient to address this risk with cabotegravir .
Animal Data : Cabotegravir was administered orally to pregnant rats at 0 , 0 . 5 , 5 , or 1 , 000 mg / kg / day from 15 days before cohabitation , during cohabitation , and from Gestation Days 0 to 17 .
There were no effects on fetal viability when fetuses were delivered by caesarean , although a minor decrease in fetal body weight was observed at 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( > 28 times the exposure in humans at the RHD ) .
No drug - related fetal toxicities were observed at 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 13 times the exposure in humans at the RHD ) , and no drug - related fetal malformations were observed at any dose .
Cabotegravir was administered orally to pregnant rabbits at 0 , 30 , 500 , or 2 , 000 mg / kg / day from Gestation Days 7 to 19 .
No drug - related fetal toxicities were observed at 2 , 000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 7 times the exposure in humans at the RHD ) .
In a rat pre - and postnatal development study , cabotegravir was administered orally to pregnant rats at 0 , 0 . 5 , 5 , or 1 , 000 mg / kg / day from Gestation Day 6 to Lactation Day 21 .
A delay in the onset of parturition and increases in the number of stillbirths and neonatal deaths by Lactation Day 4 were observed at 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( > 28 times the exposure in humans at the RHD ) ; there were no alterations to growth and development of surviving offspring .
In a cross - fostering study , similar incidences of stillbirths and early postnatal deaths were observed when rat pups born to cabotegravir - treated mothers were nursed from birth by control mothers .
There was no effect on neonatal survival of control pups nursed from birth by cabotegravir - treated mothers .
A lower dose of 5 mg / kg / day ( 13 times the exposure at the RHD ) was not associated with delayed parturition or neonatal mortality in rats .
Studies in pregnant rats showed that cabotegravir crosses the placenta and can be detected in fetal tissue .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that HIV ‑ 1 – infected mothers in the U . S . not breastfeed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 infection .
It is not known if cabotegravir is present in human breast milk , affects human milk production , or has effects on the breastfed infant .
When administered to lactating rats , cabotegravir was present in milk ( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for ( 1 ) HIV ‑ 1 transmission ( in HIV - 1 – negative infants ) , ( 2 ) developing viral resistance ( in HIV - 1 – positive infants ) , and ( 3 ) adverse reactions in a breastfed infant similar to those seen in adults , instruct HIV - 1 – infected mothers not to breastfeed if they are receiving VOCABRIA for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
For uninfected mothers receiving VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP , assess the benefit - risk of using VOCABRIA to the infant while breastfeeding .
Data Animal Data : Animal lactation studies with cabotegravir have not been conducted .
However , cabotegravir was detected in the plasma of nursing pups on Lactation Day 10 in the rat pre - and postnatal development study .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection The safety and effectiveness of VOCABRIA have been established in adolescents aged 12 to younger than 18 years and weighing at least 35 kg , which is supported by the following : • • Trials in adults [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] • • MOCHA ( NCT03497676 ) trial in adolescents MOCHA Trial The safety , tolerability , and pharmacokinetics of oral and injectable cabotegravir and oral and injectable rilpivirine are being assessed in an ongoing Phase 1 / 2 multicenter , open - label , non - comparative study , MOCHA ( IMPAACT 2017 ) .
Data are available from the Week 16 interim analysis from MOCHA .
The primary objective at Week 16 was to confirm the use of the adult dose , through the evaluation of safety and pharmacokinetics , for oral and injectable cabotegravir and injectable rilpivirine in 23 HIV - 1 – infected virologically suppressed adolescents ( aged 12 to younger than 18 years and weighing at least 35 kg ) receiving background antiretroviral therapy .
A total of 8 HIV - 1 – infected pediatric participants 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 35 kg and receiving background antiretroviral therapy received oral cabotegravir .
The safety of VOCABRIA in adolescents is expected to be similar to adults , as there was no clinically significant difference in drug exposure [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Please refer to the CABENUVA prescribing information for additional information .
The safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of VOCABRIA have not been established in pediatric patients younger than 12 years of age or weighing < 35 kg .
HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis The safety and effectiveness of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP in at - risk adolescents weighing at least 35 kg is supported by data from 2 adequate and well - controlled trials of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP in adults with additional safety and pharmacokinetic data from studies in HIV - 1 – infected adults who were administered CABENUVA and in HIV - 1 – infected pediatric subjects who were administered separate components of CABENUVA in addition to their current antiretroviral therapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP is being evaluated in 2 open - label multicenter clinical trials in adolescent individuals .
Fifty - nine adolescents have been enrolled .
Of these , 54 adolescent participants received one or more injections after receiving VOCABRIA .
In adolescents receiving VOCABRIA and APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP , the safety data were comparable to the safety data reported in adults receiving APRETUDE for HIV - 1 PrEP .
While using APRETUDE , HIV - 1 testing should be conducted prior to initiating APRETUDE ( with or without an oral lead - in with oral cabotegravir ) and prior to each injection of APRETUDE .
Adolescents may benefit from more frequent visits and counseling to support adherence to the dosing schedule [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The safety , efficacy , and pharmacokinetics of VOCABRIA in pediatric participants younger than 12 years of age or weighing < 35 kg have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of VOCABRIA did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , caution should be exercised in administration of VOCABRIA in elderly patients , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment of VOCABRIA is necessary for patients with mild to moderate ( creatinine clearance equal to 30 mL / min to < 90 mL / min ) or severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The effect of end - stage renal disease ( creatinine clearance < 15 mL / min ) on the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir is unknown .
As cabotegravir is > 99 % protein bound , dialysis is not expected to alter exposures of cabotegravir .
Since VOCABRIA is taken in combination with EDURANT for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection , the prescribing information for EDURANT should be consulted for additional recommendations in patients with severe impairment or end - stage renal disease .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment of VOCABRIA is necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh A or B ) .
The effect of severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) on the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir is unknown [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no known specific treatment for overdose with VOCABRIA .
If overdose occurs , monitor the patient and apply standard supportive treatment as required as well as observation of the clinical status of the individual .
As cabotegravir is highly bound to plasma proteins , it is unlikely that it will be significantly removed by dialysis .
11 DESCRIPTION VOCABRIA contains cabotegravir , as cabotegravir sodium , an HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor ( INSTI ) .
The chemical name of cabotegravir sodium is sodium ( 3 S , 11 aR ) - N - [ ( 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 6 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl - 5 , 7 - dioxo - 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 11 a - hexahydro [ 1 , 3 ] oxazolo [ 3 , 2 - a ] pyrido [ 1 , 2 - d ] pyrazine - 8 - carboxamide .
The empirical formula is C19H16F2N3NaO5 and the molecular weight is 427 . 34 g / mol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cabotegravir sodium is a white to almost white crystalline solid that is slightly soluble in water .
Each immediate - release film - coated tablet of VOCABRIA for oral administration contains 30 mg of cabotegravir ( equivalent to 31 . 62 mg cabotegravir sodium ) and the inactive ingredients : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
The tablet film - coating contains hypromellose , polyethylene glycol , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cabotegravir is an HIV - 1 antiretroviral drug [ see Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose of cabotegravir 150 mg orally every 12 hours ( 10 times the recommended total daily oral lead - in dosage of VOCABRIA ) , the QT interval is not prolonged to any clinically relevant extent .
Administration of 3 doses of cabotegravir 150 mg orally every 12 hours resulted in a geometric mean Cmax approximately 2 . 8 - fold above the geometric mean steady - state Cmax associated with the recommended 30 - mg dose of oral cabotegravir .
For additional QT information related to the injectable formulations of cabotegravir and rilpivirine ( CABENUVA ) , the injectable formulation of cabotegravir ( APRETUDE ) , and the oral formulation of rilpivirine ( EDURANT ) , refer to the prescribing information for CABENUVA , APRETUDE , and EDURANT .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption , Distribution , Metabolism , and Excretion The pharmacokinetic properties of cabotegravir are provided in Table 2 .
The multiple - dose pharmacokinetic parameters are provided in Table 3 .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Properties of CabotegravirCSF = Cerebrospinal fluid .
a Geometric mean ratio ( fed / fasted ) in pharmacokinetic parameters and 90 % confidence interval .
High ‑ calorie / high - fat meal = 870 kcal , 53 % fat .
b Dosing in mass balance studies : single - dose oral administration of [ 14 C ] cabotegravir .
Absorption Tmax ( h ) , median 3 Effect of high - fat meal ( relative to fasting ) : 1 . 14 AUC ( 0 - inf ) ratioa ( 1 . 02 , 1 . 28 ) Distribution % Bound to human plasma proteins > 99 . 8 Blood - to - plasma ratio 0 . 52 CSF - to - plasma concentration ratio ( median [ range ] ) b 0 . 003 ( 0 . 002 to 0 . 004 ) Elimination t1 / 2 ( h ) , mean 41 Metabolism • Metabolic pathways UGT1A1 UGT1A9 ( minor ) Excretion • Major route of elimination Metabolism • % of dose excreted as total 14 C ( unchanged drug ) in urineb 27 ( 0 ) • % of dose excreted as total 14 C ( unchanged drug ) in fecesb 59 ( 47 ) Table 3 .
Multiple - Dose Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Oral Cabotegravir in Adultsa Pharmacokinetic parameter values were based on individual post - hoc estimates from the final population pharmacokinetic model for subjects receiving 30 mg of oral cabotegravir once daily in FLAIR and ATLAS trials .
Parameter Geometric Mean ( 5 th , 95 th Percentile ) a Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 8 . 0 ( 5 . 3 , 11 . 9 ) AUC ( 0 - tau ) ( mcg • h / mL ) 145 ( 93 . 5 , 224 ) Ctau ( mcg / mL ) 4 . 6 ( 2 . 8 , 7 . 5 ) Specific Populations No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir were observed based on age , sex , race / ethnicity , body mass index , or UGT1A1 polymorphisms .
The effect of hepatitis B and C virus co - infection on the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir is unknown .
Renal Impairment : No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir are expected with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment .
Cabotegravir has not been studied in patients with end - stage renal disease not on dialysis .
As cabotegravir is > 99 % protein bound , dialysis is not expected to alter exposures of cabotegravir [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir are expected in mild to moderate ( Child - Pugh A or B ) hepatic impairment .
The effect of severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh C ) on the pharmacokinetics of cabotegravir has not been studied [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender : Population pharmacokinetic analyses revealed no clinically relevant effect of gender on the exposure of cabotegravir .
In addition , no clinically relevant differences in plasma cabotegravir concentrations were observed in PrEP studies by gender , including cisgender men and transgender women ( + / - hormone use ) .
Therefore , no dose adjustment is necessary based on gender .
Geriatric Patients : No dose adjustment is required in elderly individuals .
There are limited data available on the use of cabotegravir in individuals aged 65 years and older .
In general , caution should be exercised in administration of cabotegravir in elderly individuals , reflecting greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Pediatric Patients : Population pharmacokinetic analyses revealed no clinically relevant differences in exposure between HIV - 1 – infected adolescents ( weighing ≥ 35 kg ) and HIV - 1 – infected and uninfected adult participants from the cabotegravir development program ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is needed for adolescents weighing ≥ 35 kg ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 .
Predicted Pharmacokinetic Parametersa following Once - Daily Oral Cabotegravir in Adolescents Aged 12 to Younger Than 18 Years ( ≥ 35 kg ) a Pharmacokinetic ( PK ) parameter values were based on population PK model simulations in a virtual HIV - 1 – infected adolescent population weighing 35 to 156 kg .
b tau is dosing interval : 24 hours for oral administration .
Parameter Geometric Mean ( 5 th , 95 th Percentile ) b Cmax ( mcg / mL ) 14 . 4 ( 8 . 02 , 25 . 5 ) AUC ( 0 - tau ) ( mcg • h / mL ) b 193 ( 106 , 346 ) Ctau ( mcg / mL ) 5 . 79 ( 2 . 48 , 12 . 6 ) Drug Interaction Studies Cabotegravir is not a clinically relevant inhibitor of the following enzymes and transporters : cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 1A2 , 2A6 , 2B6 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , and 3A4 ; UGT1A1 , 1A3 , 1A4 , 1A6 , 1A9 , 2B4 , 2B7 , 2B15 , and 2B17 ; P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) ; breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) ; bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) ; organic cation transporter ( OCT ) 1 , OCT2 ; organic anion transporter polypeptide ( OATP ) 1B1 , OATP1B3 ; multidrug and toxin extrusion transporter ( MATE ) 1 , MATE 2 - K ; and multidrug resistance protein ( MRP ) 2 or MRP4 .
In vitro , cabotegravir inhibited renal OAT1 ( IC50 = 0 . 81 microM ) and OAT3 ( IC50 = 0 . 41 microM ) .
Based on physiologically based pharmacokinetic ( PBPK ) modeling , cabotegravir may increase the AUC of OAT1 / 3 substrates up to approximately 80 % .
In vitro , cabotegravir did not induce CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
Simulations using PBPK modeling show that no clinically significant interaction is expected during coadministration of cabotegravir with drugs that inhibit UGT1A1 .
In vitro , cabotegravir was not a substrate of OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , OATP2B1 , or OCT1 .
Cabotegravir is a substrate of P - gp and BCRP in vitro ; however , because of its high permeability , no alteration in cabotegravir absorption is expected with coadministration of P - gp or BCRP inhibitors .
The effects of coadministered drugs on the exposure of cabotegravir are summarized in Table 5 and the effects of cabotegravir on the exposure of coadministered drugs are summarized in Table 6 .
Table 5 .
Effect of Coadministered Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Cabotegravirn = Maximum number of subjects with data , CI = Confidence Interval .
Coadministered Drug ( s ) and Dose ( s ) Dose of Cabotegravir n Geometric Mean Ratio ( 90 % CI ) of Cabotegravir Pharmacokinetic Parameters with / without Coadministered Drugs No Effect = 1 . 00 Cmax AUC Ctau or C24 Etravirine • 200 mg twice daily 30 mg once daily 12 1 . 04 ( 0 . 99 , 1 . 09 ) 1 . 01 ( 0 . 96 , 1 . 06 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 94 , 1 . 06 ) Rifabutin • 300 mg once daily 30 mg once daily 12 0 . 83 ( 0 . 76 , 0 . 90 ) 0 . 77 ( 0 . 74 , 0 . 83 ) 0 . 74 ( 0 . 70 , 0 . 78 ) Rifampin • 600 mg once daily 30 - mg single dose 15 0 . 94 ( 0 . 87 , 1 . 02 ) 0 . 41 ( 0 . 36 , 0 . 46 ) 0 . 50 ( 0 . 44 , 0 . 57 ) Rilpivirine • 25 mg once daily 30 mg once daily 11 1 . 05 ( 0 . 96 , 1 . 15 ) 1 . 12 ( 1 . 05 , 1 . 19 ) 1 . 14 ( 1 . 04 , 1 . 24 ) Table 6 .
Effect of Cabotegravir on the Pharmacokinetics of Coadministered Drugsn = Maximum number of subjects with data , CI = Confidence Interval , NA = Not available .
Coadministered Drug ( s ) and Dose ( s ) Dose of Cabotegravir n Geometric Mean Ratio ( 90 % CI ) of Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Coadministered Drug with / without Cabotegravir No Effect = 1 . 00 Cmax AUC Ctau or C24 Ethinyl estradiol • 0 . 03 mg once daily 30 mg once daily 19 0 . 92 ( 0 . 83 , 1 . 03 ) 1 . 02 ( 0 . 97 , 1 . 08 ) 1 . 00 ( 0 . 92 , 1 . 10 ) Levonorgestrel • 0 . 15 mg once daily 30 mg once daily 19 1 . 05 ( 0 . 96 , 1 . 15 ) 1 . 12 ( 1 . 07 , 1 . 18 ) 1 . 07 ( 1 . 01 , 1 . 15 ) Midazolam • 3 mg 30 mg once daily 12 1 . 09 ( 0 . 94 , 1 . 26 ) 1 . 10 ( 0 . 95 , 1 . 26 ) NA Rilpivirine • 25 mg once daily 30 mg once daily 11 0 . 96 ( 0 . 85 , 1 . 09 ) 0 . 99 ( 0 . 89 , 1 . 09 ) 0 . 92 ( 0 . 79 , 1 . 07 ) 12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Cabotegravir inhibits HIV integrase by binding to the integrase active site and blocking the strand transfer step of retroviral deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) integration that is essential for the HIV replication cycle .
The mean 50 % inhibitory concentration ( IC50 ) value of cabotegravir in a strand transfer assay using purified recombinant HIV - 1 integrase was 3 . 0 nM .
Antiviral Activity in Cell Culture Cabotegravir exhibited antiviral activity against laboratory strains of HIV - 1 ( subtype B , n = 4 ) with mean 50 percent effective concentration ( EC50 ) values of 0 . 22 nM to 1 . 7 nM in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) and 293 cells .
Cabotegravir demonstrated antiviral activity in PBMCs against a panel of 24 HIV - 1 clinical isolates ( 3 in each of group M subtypes A , B , C , D , E , F , and G and 3 in group O ) with a median EC50 value of 0 . 19 nM ( range : 0 . 02 nM to 1 . 06 nM , n = 24 ) .
The median EC50 value against subtype B clinical isolates was 0 . 05 nM ( range : 0 . 02 to 0 . 50 nM , n = 3 ) .
Against clinical HIV - 2 isolates , the median EC50 value was 0 . 12 nM ( range : 0 . 10 nM to 0 . 14 nM , n = 4 ) .
In cell culture , cabotegravir was not antagonistic in combination with the non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor ( NNRTI ) rilpivirine , or the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs ) emtricitabine ( FTC ) , lamivudine ( 3 TC ) , or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( TDF ) .
Resistance Cell Culture : Cabotegravir - resistant viruses were selected during passage of HIV - 1 strain IIIB in MT - 2 cells in the presence of cabotegravir .
Amino acid substitutions in integrase that emerged and conferred decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir included Q146L ( fold change : 1 . 3 to 4 . 6 ) , S153Y ( fold change : 2 . 8 to 8 . 4 ) , and I162M ( fold change : 2 . 8 ) .
The integrase substitution T124A also emerged alone ( fold change : 1 . 1 to 7 . 4 in cabotegravir susceptibility ) , in combination with S153Y ( fold change : 3 . 6 to 6 . 6 in cabotegravir susceptibility ) or I162M ( 2 . 8 - fold change in cabotegravir susceptibility ) .
Cell culture passage of virus harboring integrase substitutions Q148H , Q148K , or Q148R selected for additional substitutions ( C56S , V72I , L74M , V75A , T122N , E138K , G140S , G149A , and M154I ) , with substituted viruses having reduced susceptibility to cabotegravir of 2 . 0 - to 410 - fold change .
The combinations of E138K + Q148K and V72I + E138K + Q148K conferred the greatest reductions of 53 - to 260 - fold change and 410 - fold change , respectively .
Clinical Trials : Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection : In the pooled Phase 3 FLAIR ( Week 124 ) and ATLAS ( Week 96 ) analysis , there were 8 confirmed virologic failures ( 2 consecutive HIV - 1 RNA ≥ 200 copies / mL ) on cabotegravir plus rilpivirine ( 8 / 591 , 1 . 4 % ) and 8 confirmed virologic failures on current antiretroviral regimen ( 8 / 591 , 1 . 4 % ) .
Of the 8 confirmed virologic failures in the cabotegravir plus rilpivirine arm , 7 ( 88 % ) had treatment - emergent NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions K101E , V106V / A , V108I , E138A , E138G , E138K , H221H / L , or M230L in reverse transcriptase , and 6 of them showed reduced phenotypic susceptibility to rilpivirine ( range : 2 - to 27 - fold ) .
One additional subject in the ATLAS Extension Switch on cabotegravir plus rilpivirine had emergent NNRTI resistance substitution E138A at Week 80 with HIV - 1 RNA > 50 copies / mL and < 200 copies / mL .
Additionally , 5 of the 8 ( 63 % ) cabotegravir plus rilpivirine confirmed virologic failures had treatment - emergent INSTI resistance - associated substitutions and reduced phenotypic susceptibility to cabotegravir : Q148R ( n = 2 ; 5 - and 9 - fold decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir ) , G140R ( n = 1 ; 7 - fold decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir ) , N155H ( n = 1 ; 3 - fold decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir ) , or N155H + R263K ( n = 1 ; 9 - fold decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir ) .
There was another confirmed virologic failure subject at Week 112 in FLAIR who had switched to cabotegravir plus rilpivirine direct to injection at Week 100 ; there were no INSTI resistance - associated substitutions detected at failure .
In comparison , in the current antiretroviral regimen arm with 8 confirmed virologic failures , 2 of 7 ( 29 % ) who had post ‑ baseline resistance data had treatment - emergent resistance substitutions and phenotypic resistance to their antiretroviral drugs ; both had treatment - emergent NRTI substitutions , M184V or I , which conferred resistance to emtricitabine or lamivudine in their regimen , and one of them also had the treatment - emergent NNRTI resistance substitution G190S , which conferred resistance to efavirenz in their regimen .
In the ATLAS - 2 M trial , there were 11 confirmed virologic failures ( 2 consecutive HIV - 1 RNA ≥ 200 copies / mL ) through Week 48 : 9 subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) in the every - 2 - month treatment arm and 2 subjects ( 0 . 4 % ) in the monthly treatment arm .
Of note , 8 of the 11 ( 73 % ) subjects met confirmed virologic failure criteria at or before the Week 24 injection visit .
Four of the 9 confirmed virologic failure subjects in the every - 2 - month arm transitioned from the oral current antiretroviral regimen arm of ATLAS into this trial .
In the every - 2 - month treatment arm , 8 of 9 ( 89 % ) confirmed virologic failure subjects had NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions ( E138E / K + V179V / I , K101E + E138A , A98G + K103N , E138K , V179I + Y188L + P225H , Y188L , K103N + E138A , or K101E ) at virologic failure .
Decreases in rilpivirine susceptibility for these 8 subject isolates ranged from 2 - to 30 - fold .
Six of the 8 subjects with NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions also had INSTI resistance - associated substitutions ( L74I + Q148Q / R + N155N / H ( n = 2 ) , L74I + T97A + N155H , L74I + N155H , N155H , or L74I + Q148R ) at failure with cabotegravir fold changes ranging from 1 - to 9 - fold .
The INSTI polymorphism L74I was detected at baseline in 5 of the virologic failure subjects by a HIV - 1 proviral DNA assay .
In the monthly treatment arm , both of the confirmed virologic failure subjects had NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions ( K101E + M230L or Y188F + G190Q ) at virologic failure with decreased susceptibility to rilpivirine of 17 - and > 119 . 2 - fold , respectively .
Both subjects also had INSTI resistance - associated substitutions ( N155N / H or Q148R + E138E / K ) at failure with decreased susceptibility to cabotegravir of 2 - and 5 - fold , respectively .
Neither subject had the L74I integrase polymorphism at baseline .
Genotypic Baseline Factors Associated with Virologic Failure An increased risk of cabotegravir plus rilpivirine confirmed virologic failure is associated with baseline virological factors : HIV - 1 subtype A1 , the presence of baseline integrase L74I polymorphism , and archived NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions .
Association of Subtype A1 and Baseline L74I Polymorphism in Integrase with Cabotegravir plus Rilpivirine Virologic Failure Eight of the 18 ( 44 % ) cabotegravir plus rilpivirine confirmed virologic failures in FLAIR , ATLAS , and ATLAS - 2 M had HIV - 1 subtype A1 with 7 of the 8 subtype A1 failures having the integrase polymorphism L74I detected at baseline and failure timepoints ( Table 7 ) .
There was no detectable phenotypic resistance to cabotegravir conferred by the presence of L74I at baseline .
Subtype A1 is uncommon in the U . S .
The presence of the integrase polymorphism L74I in subtype B commonly seen in the U . S . was not associated with virologic failure .
In contrast to FLAIR and ATLAS , where all virologic failures were subtype A , A1 , or AG , subtypes of the cabotegravir plus rilpivirine virologic failures in ATLAS - 2 M included A ( n = 1 ) , A1 ( n = 3 ) , B ( n = 4 ) , C ( n = 2 ) , and complex / A1 ( n = 1 ) .
Association of Archived Baseline NNRTI Substitutions with Cabotegravir plus Rilpivirine Virologic Failure The presence of archived NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions at baseline detected using an exploratory HIV - 1 proviral DNA assay was associated with a higher virologic failure rate in the every - 2 - month arm of ATLAS - 2 M and in the cabotegravir plus rilpivirine arm ( monthly ) of ATLAS compared to without archived NNRTI resistance - associated substitutions ( Table 7 ) .
However , in clinical practice , it is unlikely baseline resistance testing will be performed on virologically suppressed patients ( HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL ) .
Thus , in patients with an incomplete or uncertain NNRTI treatment history , consideration should be given before starting cabotegravir plus rilpivirine treatment .
Table 7 .
Rate of Confirmed Virologic Failure in FLAIR , ATLAS , and ATLAS - 2 M : Baselinea Analysis ( Subtype Al , Presence of lntegrase Polymorphism L74I , and Presence of Archived NNRTI Resistance - Associated SubstitutionsNNRTI = Non - Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor , CAB + RPV = Cabotegravir + Rilpivirine , CAR = Current Antiretroviral Regimen , RAS = resistance - associated substitutions , NA = Not available .
a Baseline and / or Screening result used .
b Per Standard Monogram Nomenclature Reports .
Based on June 2020 Los Alamos National Library panel , the majority of HIV - 1 subtype A1 was reclassified as HIV - 1 subtype A6 .
c L74I and L74L / I mixture .
d Baseline / Screening NNRTI substitutions at L100 , K101 , K103 , V106 , V108 , E138 , V179 , Y181 , Y188 , G190 , H221 , P225 , M230 .
FLAIR CAB + RPV N = 283 FLAIR CAR N = 283 ATLAS CAB + RPV N = 308 ATLAS CAR N = 308 ATLAS ‑ 2 M Q4W N = 523 ATLAS ‑ 2 M Q8W N = 522 Total confirmed virologic failures 5 4 3 4 2 9 Subtype A1b 4 / 8 ( 50 % ) 1 / 4 ( 25 % ) 1 / 17 ( 6 % ) 0 / 21 ( 0 % ) 0 / 30 ( 0 % ) 4 / 31 ( 13 % ) • + L74Ic 4 / 5 ( 80 % ) 1 / 3 ( 33 % ) 1 / 16 ( 6 % ) 0 / 19 ( 0 % ) 2 / 28 ( 0 % ) 3 / 26 ( 12 % ) • - L74I 0 / 3 ( 0 % ) 0 / 1 ( 0 % ) 0 / 1 ( 0 % ) 0 / 2 ( 0 % ) 0 / 2 ( 0 % ) 1 / 5 ( 20 % ) Other subtypes 2 / 268 ( 0 . 7 % ) 3 / 272 ( 1 % ) 2 / 240 ( 0 . 8 % ) 4 / 252 ( 1 . 6 % ) 2 / 409 ( 0 . 5 % ) 5 / 415 ( 1 . 2 % ) • + L74Ic 0 / 49 ( 0 % ) 1 / 43 ( 2 . 3 % ) 1 / 29 ( 3 % ) 1 / 39 ( 2 . 6 % ) 0 / 42 ( 0 % ) 2 / 48 ( 4 % ) • - L74I 0 / 219 ( 2 . 5 % ) 2 / 229 ( 0 . 9 % ) 1 / 211 ( 0 . 5 % ) 3 / 213 ( 1 . 4 % ) 2 / 367 ( 0 . 5 % ) 3 / 367 ( 0 . 8 % ) Missing data 7 7 51 35 84 76 With NNRTI RASd NA NA 3 / 78 ( 4 % ) 2 / 83 ( 2 % ) 1 / 128 ( 0 . 8 % ) 7 / 117 ( 6 % ) Without NNRTI RAS NA NA 0 / 179 ( 0 % ) 2 / 190 ( 1 % ) 1 / 310 ( 0 . 3 % ) 2 / 327 ( 0 . 6 % ) Missing data NA NA 51 35 84 76 HIV - 1 PrEP : There were 12 incident infections and 4 prevalent infections among subjects receiving cabotegravir injection for HIV - 1 PrEP in HPTN 083 .
Genotypic data were generated for viruses from 13 of these 16 subjects ( 4 subjects with prevalent infections and 9 subjects with incident infections ) and phenotypic data were generated for 3 of these viruses .
INSTI resistance - associated substitutions were detected in 5 viruses from subjects who achieved target plasma concentrations of cabotegravir ( ≥ 0 . 65 mcg / mL [ 1 . 6 μM ] ) and included R263K ( 2 - fold less susceptible to cabotegravir ) , E138A + Q148R ( 6 - fold less susceptible to cabotegravir ) , E138K + Q148K , G140A + Q148R ( 13 - fold less susceptible to cabotegravir ) , and L74I + E138E / K + G140G / S + Q148R + E157Q .
There were 3 incident infections and 1 prevalent infection among subjects receiving cabotegravir injection for HIV - 1 PrEP in HPTN 084 .
All 3 incident infections occurred during periods with cabotegravir exposures below the target concentration .
No variants expressing INSTI resistance - associated substitutions were detected .
Cross - Resistance Cross - resistance has been observed among INSTIs .
Cabotegravir had reduced susceptibility ( > 5 - fold change ) to recombinant HIV - 1 strain NL432 viruses harboring the following integrase amino acid substitutions : G118R , Q148K , Q148R , T66K + L74M , E92Q + N155H , E138A + Q148R , E138K + Q148K / R , G140C + Q148R , G140S + Q148H / K / R , Y143H + N155H , and Q148R + N155H ( range : 5 . 1 - to 81 - fold ) .
The substitutions E138K + Q148K and Q148R + N155H conferred the greatest reductions in susceptibility of 81 - and 61 - fold , respectively .
Cabotegravir was active against viruses harboring the NNRTI substitutions K103N or Y188L , or the NRTI substitutions M184V , D67N / K70R / T215Y , or V75I / F77L / F116Y / Q151M .
Virologic failure isolates from cabotegravir plus rilpivirine treatment in FLAIR , ATLAS , and ATLAS - 2 M exhibited cross - resistance to INSTIs and NNRTIs .
All confirmed virologic isolates with genotypic evidence of cabotegravir resistance had cross - resistance to elvitegravir and raltegravir but retained phenotypic susceptibility to dolutegravir and when tested bictegravir .
Viruses harboring E138A + Q148R or G140A + Q148R with reduced susceptibility to cabotegravir were isolated from subjects using cabotegravir injection for HIV - 1 PrEP in HPTN 083 .
These viruses remained susceptible to bictegravir and dolutegravir but had cross - resistance to elvitegravir and raltegravir .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Two - year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats were conducted with cabotegravir .
In mice , no drug - related increases in tumor incidence were observed at cabotegravir exposures ( AUC ) up to approximately 8 times ( males ) and 7 times ( females ) higher than those in humans at the RHD .
In rats , no drug - related increases in tumor incidence were observed at cabotegravir exposures up to approximately 26 times higher than those in humans at the RHD .
Mutagenesis Cabotegravir was not genotoxic in the bacterial reverse mutation assay , mouse lymphoma assay , or in the in vivo rodent micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility In rats , no effects on fertility were observed at cabotegravir exposures ( AUC ) > 20 times ( male ) and 28 times ( female ) the exposure in humans at the RHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Clinical Trials in Adults for Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection The use of VOCABRIA in combination with EDURANT as an oral lead - in and in patients who miss planned injections with CABENUVA was evaluated in 3 Phase 3 randomized , multicenter , active - controlled , parallel - arm , open - label , non - inferiority trials ( Trial 201584 : FLAIR [ NCT02938520 ] , Trial 201585 : ATLAS [ NCT02951052 ] , and Trial 207966 : ATLAS ‑ 2 M [ NCT03299049 ] ) in subjects who were virologically suppressed ( HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL ) .
Please refer to the CABENUVA prescribing information for additional information .
In the FLAIR study during the Extension Phase ( Week 100 to Week 124 ) , the efficacy of CABENUVA was evaluated in subjects who switched ( at Week 100 ) from their current antiretroviral regimen to CABENUVA , with and without an oral lead - in phase .
A total of 121 subjects chose to start the treatment with oral lead - in and 111 subjects chose direct to injection .
Subjects were not randomized during the Extension Phase .
At Week 124 , the proportion of subjects with HIV - 1 RNA ≥ 50 copies / mL was 0 . 8 % and 0 . 9 % for the oral lead - in and direct to injection groups , respectively .
The rates of virologic suppression ( HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL ) were similar in both the oral lead - in ( 93 % ) and direct to injection ( 99 % ) groups .
14 . 2 Clinical Trials in Adults for HIV - 1 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis The use of VOCABRIA as an oral lead - in and in participants who miss planned injections with APRETUDE to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 infection were evaluated in 2 randomized , double - blind , controlled , multinational trials , Trial 201738 ( HPTN 083 [ NCT02720094 ] ) in HIV - 1 – uninfected men and transgender women who have sex with men and have evidence of high - risk behavior for HIV - 1 infection and Trial 201739 ( HPTN 084 [ NCT03164564 ] ) in HIV - 1 – uninfected cisgender women at risk of acquiring HIV - 1 .
Please refer to the APRETUDE prescribing information for additional information .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each VOCABRIA tablet contains 30 mg of cabotegravir and is a white , oval , film - coated , biconvex tablet debossed with “ SV CTV ” on one side .
Bottle of 30 tablets with child - resistant closure NDC 49702 - 248 - 13 .
Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Important Information for Uninfected Individuals Taking VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP Advise HIV - 1 uninfected individuals about the following [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] : • • VOCABRIA should be used for PrEP as part of an overall HIV - 1 infection prevention strategy , including adherence to the dosing schedule and safer sex practices , including condoms , to reduce the risk of STIs .
• • VOCABRIA is not always effective in preventing HIV - 1 acquisition [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The time from initiation of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP to maximal protection against HIV - 1 infection is unknown .
• • Counsel individuals on the use of other prevention measures ( e . g . , knowledge of partner HIV - 1 status , testing for STIs condom use ) .
Inform individuals about and support their efforts in reducing sexual risk behavior .
• • VOCABRIA should be used to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 only in individuals confirmed to be HIV - 1 negative [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
HIV - 1 resistance substitutions may emerge in individuals with undiagnosed HIV - 1 infection who are taking only VOCABRIA , because VOCABRIA alone does not constitute a complete regimen for HIV - 1 treatment ; therefore , care should be taken to minimize the risk of initiating or continuing VOCABRIA before confirming the individual is HIV - 1 negative .
• • If recent ( < 1 month ) exposures to HIV - 1 are suspected or clinical symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection are present , use a test approved or cleared by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
• • If an HIV - 1 test indicates possible HIV - 1 infection , or if symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection develop following an exposure event , additional HIV testing to determine HIV status is needed .
If an individual has confirmed HIV - 1 infection , then the individual must be transitioned to a complete HIV - 1 treatment regimen .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Advise patients to immediately contact their healthcare provider if they develop a rash .
Instruct patients to immediately stop taking VOCABRIA and seek medical attention if they develop a rash associated with any of the following symptoms : fever ; generally ill feeling ; extreme tiredness ; muscle or joint aches ; blisters ; oral blisters or lesions ; eye inflammation ; facial swelling ; swelling of the eyes , lips , tongue , or mouth ; difficulty breathing ; and / or signs and symptoms of liver problems ( e . g . , yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes ; dark or tea - colored urine ; pale - colored stools or bowel movements ; nausea ; vomiting ; loss of appetite ; or pain , aching , or sensitivity on the right side below the ribs ) .
Advise patients that if hypersensitivity occurs , they will be closely monitored , laboratory tests will be ordered , and appropriate therapy will be initiated [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hepatotoxicity Inform patients that hepatotoxicity has been reported with cabotegravir [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Inform patients that monitoring for liver transaminases is recommended when VOCABRIA is used for HIV - 1 treatment .
Inform individuals that clinical and laboratory monitoring should be considered and APRETUDE should be discontinued if hepatoxicity is confirmed when VOCABRIA is used for HIV - 1 PrEP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Depressive Disorders Inform patients that depressive disorders ( including depressed mood , depression , mood altered , mood swings ) have been reported with VOCABRIA for treatment of HIV - 1 .
Inform patients that depressive disorders ( including depression , depressed mood , persistent depressive disorder and suicide attempt ) have been reported with VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP .
Promptly evaluate patients with severe depressive symptoms to assess whether the symptoms are related to VOCABRIA and to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Inform patients that VOCABRIA may interact with other drugs and may reduce exposure of VOCABRIA ; therefore , advise patients to report to their healthcare provider the use of any other prescription or nonprescription medication or herbal products [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Inform patients that it is important to take VOCABRIA once daily on a regular dosing schedule with a meal at the same time as EDURANT for HIV - 1 treatment and to avoid missing doses , as this can result in development of resistance .
Instruct patients that if they miss a dose of VOCABRIA to take it as soon as they remember [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Inform patients that there is an antiretroviral pregnancy registry to monitor fetal outcomes in those exposed to VOCABRIA during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Instruct mothers with HIV - 1 infection not to breastfeed because HIV - 1 can be passed to the baby in the breast milk [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Inform individuals it is recommended that women taking VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP breastfeed only if the expected benefit justifies the potential risk to the infant .
VOCABRIA , CABENUVA , and APRETUDE are trademarks owned by or licensed to the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The other brands listed are trademarks owned by or licensed to their respective owners and are not trademarks owned by or licensed to the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The makers of these brands are not affiliated with and do not endorse the ViiV Healthcare group of companies or its products .
Manufactured for : ViiV Healthcare Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 by : GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 © 2022 ViiV Healthcare group of companies or its licensor .
VCB : 6 PI Patient Information VOCABRIA ( voe - KAB - ree - ah ) ( cabotegravir ) tablets , for oral use This Patient Information provides information about two different ways that VOCABRIA may be used .
See the section “ What is VOCABRIA ? ”
for detailed information about how VOCABRIA may be used .
What is the most important information I should know about VOCABRIA ?
Important information for people who take VOCABRIA to help reduce their risk of getting human immunodeficiency virus - 1 ( HIV - 1 ) infection , also called pre - exposure prophylaxis or “ PrEP ” : Before taking VOCABRIA to reduce your risk of getting HIV - 1 : • • You must be HIV - 1 negative to start VOCABRIA .
You must get tested to make sure that you do not already have HIV - 1 infection .
• • Do not take VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP unless you are confirmed to be HIV - 1 negative .
• • Some HIV - 1 tests can miss HIV - 1 infection in a person who has recently become infected .
If you have flu - like symptoms , you could have recently become infected with HIV - 1 .
Tell your healthcare provider if you had a flu ‑ like illness within the last month before starting VOCABRIA or at any time while taking VOCABRIA .
Symptoms of new HIV - 1 infection include : • otiredness • ojoint or muscle aches • osore throat • orash • oenlarged lymph nodes in the neck or groin • ofever • oheadache • ovomiting or diarrhea • onight sweats While you are taking VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP : • • VOCABRIA does not prevent other sexually transmitted infections .
Practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to reduce the risk of getting sexually transmitted infections .
• • You must stay HIV - 1 negative to keep taking VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP .
• oKnow your HIV - 1 status and the HIV - 1 status of your partners .
• oAsk your partners with HIV - 1 if they are taking anti - HIV - 1 medicines and have an undetectable viral load .
An undetectable viral load is when the amount of virus in the blood is too low to be measured in a lab test .
To maintain an undetectable viral load , your partners must keep taking HIV - 1 medicine as prescribed .
Your risk of getting HIV - 1 is lower if your partners with HIV - 1 are taking effective treatment .
• oGet tested for HIV - 1 when your healthcare provider tells you .
• oGet tested for other sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis , chlamydia , and gonorrhea .
These infections make it easier for HIV - 1 to infect you .
• oIf you think you were exposed to HIV - 1 , tell your healthcare provider right away .
They may want to do more tests to be sure you are still HIV - 1 negative .
• oGet information and support to help reduce sexual risk behaviors .
• oDo not miss any doses of VOCABRIA .
Missing doses increases your risk of getting HIV - 1 infection .
• oIf you do become HIV - 1 positive , you will need to take other medicines to treat HIV - 1 .
VOCABRIA by itself is not a complete treatment for HIV - 1 .
If you have HIV - 1 and take only VOCABRIA , over time your HIV - 1 may become harder to treat .
What is VOCABRIA ?
VOCABRIA is a prescription medicine that may be used in two different ways when a person ’ s healthcare provider determines that they meet certain requirements .
VOCABRIA is used : • • to treat HIV - 1 infection • oin combination with another HIV - 1 medicine called EDURANT ( rilpivirine ) for short - term treatment of HIV - 1 infection in people 12 years of age and older who weigh at least 77 pounds ( 35 kg ) to replace their current HIV - 1 medicines to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir before receiving the long - acting medicine called CABENUVA ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ; rilpivirine extended - release injectable suspension ) .
• oas oral therapy for people who will miss planned injection dosing with CABENUVA .
• • for HIV - 1 PrEP to reduce the risk of getting HIV - 1 infection • ofor short - term PrEP in adults and adolescents who weigh at least 77 pounds ( at least 35 kg ) to assess the tolerability of cabotegravir before receiving the long - acting medicine called APRETUDE ( cabotegravir extended - release injectable suspension ) .
• oas oral dosing for people who will miss planned injection dosing with APRETUDE .
HIV - 1 is the virus that causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ( AIDS ) .
If you are taking VOCABRIA to treat HIV - 1 infection , you should also read the Patient Information for EDURANT .
It is not known if VOCABRIA for treatment of HIV - 1 infection is safe and effective in children younger than 12 years of age or weighing less than 77 pounds ( 35 kg ) .
It is not known if VOCABRIA is safe and effective in reducing the risk of HIV - 1 infection in children younger than 12 years of age or weighing less than 77 pounds ( less than 35 kg ) .
Do not take VOCABRIA if you : • • have ever had an allergic reaction to cabotegravir .
• • are taking any of the following medicines : • ocarbamazepine • ooxcarbazepine • ophenobarbital • ophenytoin • orifampin • orifapentine For people taking VOCABRIA for treatment of HIV - 1 infection : Do not take VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 infection if you are taking rifabutin .
For people taking VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP : Do not take VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP if you : • • already have HIV - 1 infection .
If you are HIV - 1 positive , you will need to take other medicines to treat HIV - 1 .
VOCABRIA by itself is not a complete treatment for HIV - 1 .
• • do not know your HIV - 1 infection status .
You may already be HIV - 1 positive .
You need to take other medicines to treat HIV - 1 .
VOCABRIA can only help reduce your risk of getting HIV - 1 infection before you are infected .
• • are allergic to cabotegravir • • are taking any of the medicines listed above .
See “ Do not take VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 infection if you : ” Before taking VOCABRIA , tell your healthcare provider about all your medical conditions , including if you : • • have ever had a skin rash or an allergic reaction to medicines that contain cabotegravir .
• • have or have had liver problems , including hepatitis B or C infection .
• • have ever had mental health problems .
• • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VOCABRIA will harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider if you become pregnant while taking VOCABRIA .
• Pregnancy Registry .
There is a pregnancy registry for women who take VOCABRIA during pregnancy .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how you can take part in this registry .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VOCABRIA can pass to your baby in your breast milk .
• oDo not breastfeed if you take VOCABRIA to treat HIV - 1 infection because of the risk of passing HIV - 1 to your baby .
• oIf you take VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP , talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Some medicines may interact with VOCABRIA .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with VOCABRIA .
Do not start taking a new medicine without telling your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider can tell you if it is safe to take VOCABRIA with other medicines .
How should I take VOCABRIA ?
• • For treatment of HIV - 1 infection : • oTake 1 VOCABRIA tablet and 1 EDURANT tablet 1 time a day for 1 month ( at least 28 days ) exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• oYour healthcare provider may have you take VOCABRIA tablets in combination with EDURANT tablets for 1 month ( at least 28 days ) before you receive CABENUVA for the first time .
This will allow your healthcare provider to assess how well you will tolerate these medicines .
• oYour final dose of VOCABRIA and EDURANT should be taken on the same day you receive your first injections of CABENUVA .
• oIf you miss or plan to miss a scheduled monthly or every - 2 - month injections of CABENUVA by more than 7 days , call your healthcare provider right away to discuss your options .
• oIf you take VOCABRIA at the same time as EDURANT , you should take it with a meal .
• oDo not run out of VOCABRIA .
The virus in your blood may increase and the virus may become harder to treat when using VOCABRIA to treat HIV - 1 infection .
• • For HIV - 1 PrEP : • oTake 1 VOCABRIA tablet 1 time a day for 1 month ( at least 28 days ) exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• oYour healthcare provider may have you take VOCABRIA tablets for 1 month ( at least 28 days ) before you receive APRETUDE for the first time .
This will allow your healthcare provider to assess how well you will tolerate APRETUDE .
• oYou should receive your first injection of APRETUDE on the day of your last dose of VOCABRIA or within 3 days .
• oIf you miss or plan to miss a scheduled every - 2 - month injection of APRETUDE by more than 7 days , call your healthcare provider right away to discuss your options .
• • VOCABRIA may be taken with or without food .
• • If you take antacid products that contain aluminum or magnesium hydroxide or calcium carbonate , they should be taken at least 2 hours before or 4 hours after you take VOCABRIA .
• • Stay under the care of a healthcare provider while taking VOCABRIA .
• • Do not change your dose or stop taking VOCABRIA without talking to your healthcare provider .
• • Do not miss a dose of VOCABRIA .
If you miss a dose of VOCABRIA , take it as soon as you remember .
• • If you take too much VOCABRIA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of VOCABRIA ?
VOCABRIA may cause serious side effects including : • • Allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop a rash with VOCABRIA .
Stop taking VOCABRIA and get medical help right away if you develop a rash with any of the following signs or symptoms : • ofever • ogenerally ill feeling • otiredness • omuscle or joint aches • otrouble breathing • oblisters or sores in mouth • oblisters • oredness or swelling of the eyes • oswelling of the mouth , face , lips , or tongue fever • • Liver problems .
Liver problems have happened in people with or without history of liver problems or other risk factors .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests to check your liver function .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop any of the following signs or symptoms of liver problems : • oyour skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow ( jaundice ) • odark or “ tea - colored ” urine • olight - colored stools ( bowel movements ) • onausea or vomiting • oloss of appetite • opain , aching , or tenderness on the right side of your stomach area • oitching • • Depression or mood changes .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • ofeeling sad or hopeless • ofeeling anxious or restless • ohave thoughts of hurting yourself ( suicide ) or have tried to hurt yourself The most common side effects of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 treatment include : • • fatigue • • headache • • diarrhea • • abnormal dreams • • sleep disorders • • nausea • • dizziness • • anxiety • • stomach pain • • stomach bloating • • weakness The most common side effects of VOCABRIA for HIV - 1 PrEP include : • • headache • • nausea • • upper respiratory tract infection • • tiredness • • stomach pain • • diarrhea • • dizziness • • drowsiness • • abnormal dreams These are not all the possible side effects of VOCABRIA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 ‑ 800 ‑ FDA ‑ 1088 .
How should I store VOCABRIA ?
Store VOCABRIA below 86 ° F ( 30 ° C ) .
Keep VOCABRIA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VOCABRIA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VOCABRIA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VOCABRIA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about VOCABRIA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in VOCABRIA ?
Active ingredient : cabotegravir Inactive ingredients : hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
The tablet film - coating contains : hypromellose , polyethylene glycol and titanium dioxide .
• Manufactured for : • ViiV Healthcare • Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 by : GlaxoSmithKline Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 VOCABRIA , APRETUDE , and CABENUVA are trademarks owned by or licensed to the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The other brand listed is a trademark owned by or licensed to its respective owner and is not a trademark owned by or licensed to the ViiV Healthcare group of companies .
The maker of this brand is not affiliated with and does not endorse the ViiV Healthcare group of companies or its products .
© 2022 ViiV Healthcare group of companies or its licensor .
VCB : 4 PIL For more information call 1 - 877 - 844 - 8872 .
• This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 3 / 2022 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 49702 - 248 - 13 VOCABRIA ( cabotegravir ) Tablets 30 mg Rx Only Note to pharmacist : Do not cover ALERT box with pharmacy label .
ALERT : Find out about medicines that should NOT be taken with VOCABRIA .
30 tablets Each tablet contains 30 mg of cabotegravir equivalent to 31 . 62 mg of cabotegravir sodium This package is child - resistant .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Do not accept if membrane seal under cap is missing or broken .
See prescribing information for dosage information .
Mfd for : ViiV Healthcare RTP , NC 27709 by : GlaxoSmithKline RTP , NC 27709 Made in Singapore • 62000000039717 Rev . 11 / 20 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
