Homeopathic Antifungal Medicine 0 . 34 fl oz ( 10 mL ) Indications For temporary relief of irritation , itching , and soreness caused by tinea corporis ( ringworm ) , tinea cruris ( jock itch ) and tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) .
DOSAGE 5 - 10 drops , once daily .
WARNING If symptoms persist more than a few days , contact a licensed practitioner .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product .
Keep this and all other medications out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Protect from light and heat .
INGREDIENTS 10 mL Trichophyton verrucosum 6 X in a base of purified water .
Tamper Evident Do not use this product if tamper - evident seal on base of bottle cap is missing or broken .
Made in Germany Distributed by : SANUM USA Corp . 1465 Slater Road Ferndale , WA 98248 Manufactured by : Sanum - Kehlbeck GmbH & Co .
KG Hoya , Germany Rev . 10 / 2010 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mL Bottle Label Pleo ® Ver DROPS 6 X Homeopathic Antifungal Medicine Indications : For temporary relief of irritation , itching , and soreness caused by tinea corporis ( ringworm ) , tinea cruris ( jock itch ) and tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) .
0 . 34 fl oz ( 10 mL ) Dosage : 5 - 10 drops , once daily .
Warning : If symptoms persist more than a few days , contact a licensed practitioner .
As with any drug , if you are pregnant or nursing a baby , seek the advice of a health care professional before using this product .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Protect from light and heat .
TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use this product if tamper - evident seal on base of bottle cap is missing or broken .
INGREDIENTS : 10 mL Trichophyton verrucosum 6 X in a base of purified water .
Rev . 10 / 2010 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
