Balanced Electrolyte Solution for Irrigation .
For All General Irrigation , Washing , and Rinsing Purposes .
Not for Injection by Usual Parenteral Route .
DESCRIPTION Physiolyte is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of electrolytes in water for injection intended only for sterile irrigation , washing , and rinsing purposes .
Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 53 g ; Sodium Gluconate USP 0 . 5 g Sodium Acetate Trihydrate USP 0 . 37 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 037 g ; Magnesium Chloride Hexahydrate USP 0 . 03 g Water for Injection USP qs Glacial Acetic Acid USP has been added to adjust the pH pH : 6 . 8 ( 6 . 3 – 7 . 3 ) Calculated Osmolarity : The solution is isotonic ( 295 mOsmol / liter ) Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 140 Potassium 5 ; Magnesium 3 ; Chloride 98 ; Acetate ( CH3COO − ) 27 Gluconate ( HOCH2 ( CHOH ) 4 COO − ) 23 It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as a single - dose or short procedure irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Physiolyte may be classified as a sterile irrigant , wash , rinse and pharmaceutical vehicle .
The formulas of the active ingredients are : Ingredients Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Sodium Acetate Trihydrate USP CH3COONa • 3H2O 136 . 08 Potassium Chloride USP KCl 74 . 55 Magnesium Chloride Hexahydrate USP MgCl2 • 6H2O 203 . 30 Sodium Gluconate USP [ MULTIMEDIA ] 218 . 14 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class VI testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Physiolyte exerts a mechanical cleansing action for sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters and surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
Physiolyte provides an isotonic calcium - free balanced electrolyte irrigation with the same ionic composition as Isolyte ® S ( Multi - Electrolyte Solution ) a multiple electrolyte solution for IV replacement of acute extracellular fluid losses .
Physiological irrigation solutions are considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Potassium , the principal cation of intracellular fluid , participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Magnesium , a principal cation of soft tissue , is primarily involved in enzyme activity associated with the metabolism of carbohydrates and protein .
Magnesium is also involved in neuromuscular and cardiac conduction and irritability .
Gluconate and acetate are organic ions which are hydrogen ion acceptors and contribute bicarbonate during their metabolism to carbon dioxide and water , and serve as alkalinizing agents .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) is indicated for all general irrigation , washing , and rinsing purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Physiolyte is not for injection by usual parenteral routes .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus , irrigation solutions must be regarded as systemic drugs .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
After opening container , it ' s contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservatives .
PRECAUTIONS General Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering sterile irrigation solutions for irrigating body cavities , wounds and urethral catheters or for wetting dressings that come in contact with the body tissues .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption of large amounts into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to " dwell " inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
When used as a " pour " irrigation , no part of the contents should be allowed to contact the surface below the outer protected thread area of the plastic irrigation container .
When used for irrigation via appropriate irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) .
It is also not known whether Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when Physiolyte is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Physiolyte in pediatric patients have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years of age respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Use in Patients with Renal Insufficiency / Failure Clinical studies of Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigation Solution ) have not been performed to determine whether patients with renal failure respond differently from those with normal renal function .
Given the potential for systemic absorption , the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Increased caution should be exercised when administering Physiolyte to patients with impaired fluid and electrolyte homeostasis .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue administration of the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , reevaluate the patient ' s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
Intravascular volume overload may respond to hemodialysis .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION As required for irrigation .
The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure .
When used as a vehicle for other drugs , the directions of the additive ' s manufacturer should be followed .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permits .
HOW SUPPLIED Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in 1000 mL PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Containers ) packaged 16 per case .
NDC REF Size Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) 0264 - 2205 - 00 R5510 - 01 1000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : October 2015 Isolyte is a registered trademark and Physiolyte and PIC are trademarks of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions For Use of PIC Containers Not for injection .
Aseptic technique is required .
1 .
Caution – Before use , perform the following checks : ( a ) Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
( b ) Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Single unit container .
Discard unused portion .
2 .
Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt .
Then , twisting the container in the opposite direction , turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Connect the administration set through the sterile set port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Do not warm above 150 ° F to assure minimal bottle distortion .
Keep bottles upright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Y36 - 002 - 907 LD - 515 - 1 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Container Label Physiolyte ™ ( A Physiological Irrigating Solution ) Isotonic Solution for Irrigation REF R5510 - 01 NDC 0264 - 2205 - 00 1000 mL PIC ™ Container Lot Exp .
Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 53 g ; Sodium Gluconate USP 0 . 5 g ; Sodium Acetate • 3H2O USP 0 . 37 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 037 g ; Magnesium Chloride • 6H2O USP 0 . 03 g ; Water for Injection USP qs Glacial Acetic Acid USP to adjust pH pH : 6 . 8 ( 6 . 3 - 7 . 3 ) Calc .
Osmolarity : 295 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 140 K + 5 Mg + + 3 CI − 98 Acetate 27 Gluconate 23 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single unit container .
Not for injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Rx only Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 Physiolyte and PIC are trademarks of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Y37 - 002 - 508 LD - 519 - 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
