This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 68 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use * Helps eliminate bacteria on the hand and parts of the body that needs to be cleaned .
This product is not a substitute of soap hand washing .
Avoid contact with broken or damaged skin Warnings • For external use only - • When using this product keep out o f eyes .
In case of contact , flush with water several minutes .
• Keep out of reach of children except under adult supervision • If swalow get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Flammable : Keep away from heat and flame .
• Stop use and ask Doctor : if skin irritation develops .
• Do not swalow • Children under 6 years old should be supervised when using this product Do not use Stop use and ask a doctor if * Irritation develops When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to throughly cover your hands .
• Rub hands together briskly until dry • Apply it on the parts of the body that needs to be cleaned and rub it briskly until dry Other information QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS : ( 574 ) 4448438 Ext 108 ( Monday to Friday ) 6 : 30 am to 4 : 30 pm ( UTC / GMT 5 hours ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , water .
citric acid , propanediol Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
