DESCRIPTION Renese ® is designated generically as polythiazide , and chemically as 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - Benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide , 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 - methyl - 3 - [ [ ( 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroethyl ) thio ] methyl ] - , 1 , 1 - dioxide .
It is a white crystalline substance , insoluble in water but readily soluble in alkaline solution .
Inert Ingredients : dibasic calcium phosphate ; lactose ; magnesium stearate ; polyethylene glycol ; sodium lauryl sulfate ; starch ; vanillin .
The 2 mg tablets also contain : Yellow 6 ; Yellow 10 .
ACTION The mechanism of action results in an interference with the renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption .
At maximal therapeutic dosage all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic potency .
The mechanism whereby thiazides function in the control of hypertension is unknown .
INDICATIONS Renese is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure , hepatic cirrhosis , and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy .
Renese has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction as : Nephrotic syndrome ; Acute glomerulonephritis ; and Chronic renal failure .
Renese is indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension .
Usage in Pregnancy The routine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unnecessary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of toxemia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Thiazides are indicated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy ( however , see Warnings , below ) .
Dependent edema in pregnancy , resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus , is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unnecessary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular disease ) , but which is associated with edema , including generalized edema , in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , increased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances , this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases , a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Anuria .
Hypersensitivity to this or other sulfonamide derived drugs .
WARNINGS Thiazides should be used with caution in severe renal disease .
In patients with renal disease , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
Cumulative effects of the drug may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease , since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma .
Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs .
Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs .
Sensitivity reactions may occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
The possibility of exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported .
Usage in Pregnancy Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
The use of thiazides in pregnant women requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against possible hazards to the fetus .
These hazards include fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions which have occurred in the adult .
Nursing Mothers Thiazides appear in breast milk .
If use of the drug is deemed essential , the patient should stop nursing .
PRECAUTIONS Periodic determination of serum electrolytes to detect possible electrolyte imbalance should be performed at appropriate intervals .
All patients receiving thiazide therapy should be observed for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ; namely , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia .
Serum and urine electrolyte determinations are particularly important when the patient is vomiting excessively or receiving parenteral fluids .
Medication such as digitalis may also influence serum electrolytes .
Warning signs , irrespective of cause , are : dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , muscular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop with thiazides as with any other potent diuretic , especially with brisk diuresis , when severe cirrhosis is present , or during concomitant use of corticosteroids or ACTH .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also contribute to hypokalemia .
Digitalis therapy may exaggerate metabolic effects of hypokalemia especially with reference to myocardial activity .
Any chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require specific treatment except under extraordinary circumstances ( as in liver disease or renal disease ) .
Dilutional hyponatremia may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction , rather than administration of salt except in rare instances when the hyponatremia is life threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropriate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased , decreased , or unchanged .
Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide administration .
Thiazide drugs may increase the responsiveness to tubocurarine .
The antihypertensive effects of the drug may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine .
This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use .
If progressive renal impairment becomes evident , as indicated by a rising nonprotein nitrogen or blood urea nitrogen , a careful reappraisal of therapy is necessary with consideration given to withholding or discontinuing diuretic therapy .
Thiazides may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A . GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM REACTIONS • anorexia • gastric irritation • nausea • vomiting • cramping • diarrhea • constipation • jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) • pancreatitis B . CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM REACTIONS • dizziness • vertigo • paresthesias • headache • xanthopsia C . HEMATOLOGIC REACTIONS • leukopenia • agranulocytosis • thrombocytopenia • aplastic anemia D . DERMATOLOGIC — HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS • purpura • photosensitivity • rash • urticaria • necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis ) ( cutaneous vasculitis ) E . CARDIOVASCULAR REACTION Orthostatic hypotension may occur and may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates or narcotics .
F .
OTHER • hyperglycemia • glycosuria • hyperuricemia • muscle spasm • weakness • restlessness Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe , thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Therapy should be individualized according to patient response .
This therapy should be titrated to gain maximal therapeutic response as well as the minimal dose possible to maintain that therapeutic response .
The usual dosage of Renese tablets for diuretic therapy is 1 to 4 mg daily , and for antihypertensive therapy is 2 to 4 mg daily .
HOW SUPPLIED RENESE ( polythiazide ) Tablets are available as : 1 mg white , scored tablets in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0069 - 3750 - 66 ) .
2 mg yellow , scored tablets in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0069 - 3760 - 66 ) .
4 mg white , scored tablets in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0069 - 3770 - 66 ) .
Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] 69 - 1116 - 00 - 6 April 1997 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
