Coasstal Hand Sanitizer Gel hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade active ingredient in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 Inactive Ingredients • Glycerol ( 7 . 6 % v / v ) .
• Isopropyl Alcohol ( ( 0 . 3 % v / v ) • Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 1 % v / v ) .
• Carbomer ( 0 . 4 % ) • Vitamin E ( 0 . 3 % v / v ) • Sterile distilled water Label Gallon Bottle with FDA Logo 1 gallon Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , Isopropyl Alchol , Carbomer , Vitamin E , and purified water USP Package Label - Principal Display Panel 3785 mL NDC : 79076 - 900 - 41 Label Gallon Bottle with FDA Logo 1 gallon Label Gallon Bottle with FDA Logo 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] gallon Drug Facts [ MULTIMEDIA ]
