Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone Acetate 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - Itch Uses temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema insect bites • poison ivy , oak or sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • other uses of this product should be under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in or near the eyes • for the treatment of diaper rash When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times dailys .
• children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Carbomer , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Copernicia Cerifera ( Carnauba ) Wax , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Niacinamide , Phenoxyethanol , Polysorbate 60 , Stearic Acid , Tocopherol Acetate , Triethanolamine , Water .
Super Cortisone + Hydrocortisone 1 % / Anti - itch Cream 1 . 0 fl .
oz .
/ 30 mL SLMD SANDRA LEE MD SKINCARE BY Dr . Pimple Popper Super Cortisone + Super Cortisone + is formulated with 1 % Hydrocortisone to provide instant relief and lasting healing for irritation , inflammation , and itch due to eczema , psoriasis , rashes , and insect bites .
With added Niacinamide , Aloe Vera , and Vitamin E , we took this cream to the next level - to not only stop and soothe itch , but to also moisturize and strengthen sensitive or compromised skin .
How to use : Apply a thin layer to the affected area .
Reapply as needed , up to 4 times daily .
Dermatologist formulated , skin approved Created by pop culture ' s favorite dermatologist , SLMD Skincare was formulated by Sandra Lee MD to bridge to gap between the cluttered skincare aisles and a doctors visit .
You can trust each bottle will contain only the most effective ingredients , in formulas that your skin will love .
Think of it as a trip to Dr . Pimple Popper ' s office , no appointment necessary .
Questions or comments ?
Visit us at slmdskincare . com @ slmdskincare Distributed by Skin PS Brands Culver City , CA 90232 Made in the USA Carton Artwork : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tube Artwork : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
