Warnings and Precautions , Glaucoma and Cataracts ( 5 . 2 ) 01 / 2019 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of perennial nonallergic rhinitis in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older .
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is a corticosteroid indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of perennial nonallergic rhinitis in adult and pediatric patients aged 4 years and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Administer fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP by the intranasal route only .
Prime fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP before using for the first time or after a period of non - use ( 1 week or more ) by shaking the contents well and releasing 6 sprays into the air away from the face .
Shake fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP gently before each use .
Patients should use fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP at regular intervals since its effectiveness depends on its regular use .
Maximum effect may take several days and individual patients will experience a variable time to onset and different degree of symptom relief .
For intranasal use only .
Recommended starting dosages : • • Adults : 2 sprays per nostril once daily ( 200 mcg per day ) .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Adolescents and children aged 4 years and older : 1 spray per nostril once daily ( 100 mcg per day ) .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults The recommended starting dosage in adults is 2 sprays ( 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate each ) in each nostril once daily ( total daily dose , 200 mcg ) .
The same total daily dose , 1 spray in each nostril administered twice daily ( e . g . , 8 a . m . and 8 p . m . ) is also effective .
After the first few days , patients may be able to reduce their dose to 1 spray in each nostril once daily for maintenance therapy .
Maximum total daily doses should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril ( total dose , 200 mcg / day ) .
There is no evidence that exceeding the recommended dose is more effective .
2 . 2 Adolescents and Children ( Aged 4 Years and Older ) The recommended starting dosage in adolescents and children , aged 4 years and older is 1 spray in each nostril once daily ( total daily dose , 100 mcg ) .
Patients not adequately responding to 1 spray in each nostril may use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily ( total daily dose , 200 mcg ) .
Once adequate control is achieved , the dosage should be decreased to 1 spray in each nostril once daily .
The maximum total daily dosage should not exceed 2 sprays in each nostril ( 200 mcg / day ) .
There is no evidence that exceeding the recommended dose is more effective .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is an aqueous suspension .
Each 100 - mg spray delivers 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate .
Nasal spray : 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate in each 100 - mg spray .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to any ingredient .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Epistaxis , nasal ulceration , Candida albicans infection , nasal septal perforation , and impaired wound healing .
Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa .
Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers , nasal surgery , or nasal trauma .
( 5 . 1 ) • • Glaucoma and cataracts : Consider referral to an ophthalmologist in patients who develop ocular symptoms or use fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP long - term .
( 5 . 2 ) • • Hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , contact dermatitis , and rash ) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP if such reactions occur .
( 5 . 3 ) • • Potential worsening of infections ( e . g . , existing tuberculosis ; fungal , bacterial , viral , or parasitic infection ; ocular herpes simplex ) .
Use with caution in patients with these infections .
More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients .
( 5 . 4 ) • • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals .
If such changes occur , discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP slowly .
( 5 . 5 ) • • Monitor growth of pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks ’ duration , epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP than those who received placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally , the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred .
When such an infection develops , it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa .
Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing , patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers , nasal surgery , or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP until healing has occurred .
5 . 2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and / or cataracts .
Therefore , close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure , glaucoma , and / or cataracts .
Consider referral to an ophthalmologist in patients who develop ocular symptoms or use fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP long - term .
5 . 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , contact dermatitis , and rash ) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP if such reactions occur [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Rarely , immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
5 . 4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chickenpox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids .
In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route , and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If a patient is exposed to chickenpox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If a patient is exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG . )
If chickenpox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution , if at all , in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract ; systemic fungal , bacterial , viral , or parasitic infections ; or ocular herpes simplex .
5 . 5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages , systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear .
If such changes occur , the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy .
The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency .
In addition , some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal ( e . g . , joint and / or muscular pain , lassitude , depression ) .
Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress .
In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long - term systemic corticosteroid treatment , rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms .
5 . 6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir , ketoconazole , telithromycin , conivaptan , lopinavir , nefazodone , voriconazole ) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [ see Use inSpecific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP , titrate each patient ’ s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his / her symptoms [ see Dosage andAdministration ( 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following : • • Epistaxis , nasal ulceration , Candida albicans infection , nasal septal perforation , and impaired wound healing [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Cataracts and glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Immunosuppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Effect on growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( > 3 % ) are headache , pharyngitis , epistaxis , nasal burning / nasal irritation , nausea / vomiting , asthma symptoms , and cough .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In controlled U . S . clinical trials , more than 3 , 300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate .
In general , adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes , and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo .
Less than 2 % of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions ; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators .
The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo - controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis .
The 7 trials included 536 subjects ( 57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years , 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults ) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo - controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects ( 119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults ) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months ( Table 1 ) .
Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children ( 45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years ) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks .
Table 1 .
Adverse Reactions with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP with > 3 % Incidence and More Common thanPlacebo in Subjects ≥ 4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily ( n = 167 ) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily ( n = 782 ) % Placebo ( n = 758 ) % Headache Pharyngitis Epistaxis Nasal burning / nasal irritation Nausea / vomiting Asthma symptoms Cough 6 . 6 6 . 0 6 . 0 2 . 4 4 . 8 7 . 2 3 . 6 16 . 1 7 . 8 6 . 9 3 . 2 2 . 6 3 . 3 3 . 8 14 . 6 7 . 2 5 . 4 2 . 6 2 . 0 2 . 9 2 . 8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3 % but greater than or equal to 1 % and more common than with placebo included : blood in nasal mucus , runny nose , abdominal pain , diarrhea , fever , flu - like symptoms , aches and pains , dizziness , and bronchitis .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions , including angioedema , skin rash , edema of the face and tongue , pruritus , urticaria , bronchospasm , wheezing , dyspnea , and anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , which in rare instances were severe .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and / or smell and , rarely , nasal septal perforation , nasal ulcer , sore throat , throat irritation and dryness , cough , hoarseness , and voice changes .
Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation , conjunctivitis , blurred vision , glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and cataracts .
Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir , ketoconazole ) : Use not recommended .
May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4 .
The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ritonavir , atazanavir , clarithromycin , indinavir , itraconazole , nefazodone , nelfinavir , saquinavir , ketoconazole , telithromycin , conivaptan , lopinavir , nefazodone , voriconazole ) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur .
Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir ( a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure , resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
During postmarketing use , there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products , including fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP , with ritonavir , resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing ’ s syndrome and adrenal suppression .
Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 1 , 000 mcg ) and ketoconazole ( 200 mg once daily ) resulted in a 1 . 9 - fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45 % decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve ( AUC ) , but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Hepatic impairment : Monitor patients for signs of increased drug exposure .
( 8 . 6 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are insufficient data on the use of fluticasone propionate in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animals , teratogenicity characteristic of corticosteroids , decreased fetal body weight and / or skeletal variations , were observed in rats , mice , and rabbits with subcutaneously administered maternal toxic doses of fluticasone propionate 5 times , equivalent to , and less than the maximum recommended human daily intranasal dose ( MRHDID ) on a mcg / m2 basis , respectively .
( See Animal Data . )
However , fluticasone propionate administered via nose - only inhalation to rats decreased fetal body weight , but did not induce teratogenicity at a maternal toxic dose equivalent to the MRHDID on a mcg / m2 basis .
( See Animal Data . )
Experience with oral corticosteroids suggests that rodents are more prone to teratogenic effects from corticosteroids than humans .
The estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data : Following inhaled administration , fluticasone propionate was detected in the neonatal cord blood after delivery .
Animal Data : In embryofetal development studies with pregnant rats and mice dosed by the subcutaneous route throughout the period of organogenesis , fluticasone propionate was teratogenic in both species .
Omphalocele , decreased body weight , and skeletal variations were observed in rat fetuses , in the presence of maternal toxicity , at a dose approximately 5 times the MRHDID of 200 mcg / day ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 100 mcg / kg / day ) .
The rat no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was observed at approximately equivalent to the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 30 mcg / kg / day ) .
Cleft palate and fetal skeletal variations were observed in mouse fetuses at a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 45 mcg / kg / day ) .
The mouse NOAEL was observed with a dose approximately 0 . 3 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 15 mcg / kg / day ) .
In an embryofetal development study with pregnant rats dosed by the nose - only inhalation route throughout the period of organogenesis , fluticasone propionate produced decreased fetal body weights and skeletal variations , in the presence of maternal toxicity , at a dose approximately equivalent to the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal nose - only inhalation dose of 25 . 7 mcg / kg / day ) ; however , there was no evidence of teratogenicity .
The NOAEL was observed with a dose approximately 0 . 25 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal nose - only inhalation dose of 5 . 5 mcg / kg / day ) .
In an embryofetal development study in pregnant rabbits that were dosed by the subcutaneous route throughout organogenesis , fluticasone propionate produced reductions of fetal body weights , in the presence of maternal toxicity , at doses approximately 0 . 06 times the MRHDID and higher ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0 . 57 mcg / kg / day ) .
Teratogenicity was evident based upon a finding of cleft palate for 1 fetus at a dose 0 . 39 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 4 mcg / kg / day ) .
The NOAEL was observed in rabbit fetuses with a dose approximately 0 . 01 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with a maternal subcutaneous dose of 0 . 08 mcg / kg / day ) .
Fluticasone propionate crossed the placenta following subcutaneous administration to mice and rats and oral administration to rabbits .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in pregnant rats dosed from late gestation through delivery and lactation ( Gestation Day 17 to Postpartum Day 22 ) , fluticasone propionate was not associated with decreases in pup body weight , and had no effects on developmental landmarks , learning , memory , reflexes , or fertility at doses up to 2 times the MRHDID ( on a mcg / m2 basis with maternal subcutaneous doses up to 50 mcg / kg / day ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of fluticasone propionate in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Low concentrations of other corticosteroids have been detected in human milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for fluticasone propionate and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from fluticasone propionate or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Animal Data : Subcutaneous administration of tritiated fluticasone propionate at a dose of 10 mcg / kg / day to lactating rats resulted in measurable levels in milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP in children aged 4 years and older have been established [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Six hundred fifty ( 650 ) subjects aged 4 to 11 years and 440 subjects aged 12 to 17 years were studied in US clinical trials with fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
The safety and effectiveness of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP in children younger than 4 years have not been established .
Effects on Growth Controlled clinical trials have shown that intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients .
This effect was observed in the absence of laboratory evidence of hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , suggesting that growth velocity is a more sensitive indicator of systemic corticosteroid exposure in pediatric patients than some commonly used tests of HPA axis function .
The long - term effects of this reduction in growth velocity associated with intranasal corticosteroids , including the impact on final adult height , are unknown .
The potential for “ catch - up ” growth following discontinuation of treatment with intranasal corticosteroids has not been adequately studied .
The growth of pediatric patients receiving intranasal corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP , should be monitored routinely ( e . g . , via stadiometry ) .
The potential growth effects of prolonged treatment should be weighed against the clinical benefits obtained and the risks associated with alternative therapies .
To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids , including fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP , each patient ’ s dosage should be titrated to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his / her symptoms .
A 1 - year placebo - controlled trial was conducted in 150 pediatric subjects ( aged 3 to 9 years ) to assess the effect of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP ( single daily dose of 200 mcg ) on growth velocity .
From the primary population receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP ( n = 56 ) and placebo ( n = 52 ) , the point estimate for growth velocity with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP was 0 . 14 cm / year lower than placebo ( 95 % CI : - 0 . 54 , 0 . 27 cm / year ) .
Thus , no statistically significant effect on growth was noted compared with placebo .
No evidence of clinically relevant changes in HPA axis function or bone mineral density was observed as assessed by 12 - hour urinary cortisol excretion and dual - energy x - ray absorptiometry , respectively .
The potential for fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP to cause growth suppression in susceptible patients or when given at higher than recommended dosages cannot be ruled out .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A limited number of subjects aged 65 years and older ( n = 129 ) or 75 years and older ( n = 11 ) have been treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP in clinical trials .
While the number of subjects is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety , the adverse reactions reported in this population were similar to those reported by younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic trials using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP have not been conducted in subjects with hepatic impairment .
Since fluticasone propionate is predominantly cleared by hepatic metabolism , impairment of liver function may lead to accumulation of fluticasone propionate in plasma .
Therefore , patients with hepatic disease should be closely monitored .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment Formal pharmacokinetic trials using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP have not been conducted in subjects with renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Chronic overdosage may result in signs / symptoms of hypercorticism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Intranasal administration of 2 mg ( 10 times the recommended dose ) of fluticasone propionate twice daily for 7 days was administered to healthy human volunteers .
Adverse events reported with fluticasone propionate were similar to placebo , and no clinically significant abnormalities in laboratory safety tests were observed .
Single oral doses up to 16 mg have been studied in human volunteers with no acute toxic effects reported .
Repeat oral doses up to 80 mg daily for 10 days in volunteers and repeat oral doses up to 10 mg daily for 14 days in patients were well tolerated .
Adverse reactions were of mild or moderate severity , and incidences were similar in active and placebo treatment groups .
Acute overdosage with this dosage form is unlikely since 1 bottle of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP contains approximately 8 mg of fluticasone propionate .
11 DESCRIPTION The active component of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP is fluticasone propionate , a corticosteroid having the chemical name S - ( fluoromethyl ) 6α , 9 - difluoro - 11β , 17 - dihydroxy - 16α - methyl - 3 - oxoandrosta - 1 , 4 - diene - 17β - carbothioate , 17 - propionate and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fluticasone propionate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 500 . 6 , and the empirical formula is C25H31F3O5S .
It is practically insoluble in water , freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylformamide , and slightly soluble in methanol and 95 % ethanol .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP , 50 mcg is an aqueous suspension of microfine fluticasone propionate for topical administration to the nasal mucosa by means of a metering , atomizing spray pump .
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP also contains benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 02 % w / w ) , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , microcrystalline cellulose , phenylethyl alcohol ( 0 . 25 % w / w ) , polysorbate 80 , and purified water and has a pH between 5 . 8 and 6 . 8 .
After initial priming , each actuation delivers 50 mcg of fluticasone propionate in 100 mg of formulation through the nasal adapter .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fluticasone propionate is a synthetic trifluorinated corticosteroid with anti - inflammatory activity .
Fluticasone propionate has been shown in vitro to exhibit a binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor that is 18 times that of dexamethasone , almost twice that of beclomethasone - 17 - monopropionate ( BMP ) , the active metabolite of beclomethasone dipropionate , and over 3 times that of budesonide .
Data from the McKenzie vasoconstrictor assay in man are consistent with these results .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
The precise mechanism through which fluticasone propionate affects rhinitis symptoms is not known .
Corticosteroids have been shown to have a wide range of effects on multiple cell types ( e . g . , mast cells , eosinophils , neutrophils , macrophages , lymphocytes ) and mediators ( e . g . , histamine , eicosanoids , leukotrienes , cytokines ) involved in inflammation .
In 7 trials in adults , fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP has decreased nasal mucosal eosinophils in 66 % of patients ( 35 % for placebo ) and basophils in 39 % of patients ( 28 % for placebo ) .
The direct relationship of these findings to long - term symptom relief is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics HPA Axis Effect The potential systemic effects of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP on the HPA axis were evaluated .
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP given as 200 mcg once daily or 400 mcg twice daily was compared with placebo or oral prednisone 7 . 5 or 15 mg given in the morning .
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP at either dosage for 4 weeks did not affect the adrenal response to 6 - hour cosyntropin stimulation , while both dosages of oral prednisone significantly reduced the response to cosyntropin .
Cardiac Electrophysiology A study specifically designed to evaluate the effect of fluticasone propionate on the QT interval has not been conducted .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The activity of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP is due to the parent drug , fluticasone propionate .
Due to the low bioavailability by the intranasal route , the majority of the pharmacokinetic data was obtained via other routes of administration .
Absorption Indirect calculations indicate that fluticasone propionate delivered by the intranasal route has an absolute bioavailability averaging less than 2 % .
Trials using oral dosing of labeled and unlabeled drug have demonstrated that the oral systemic bioavailability of fluticasone propionate is negligible ( < 1 % ) , primarily due to incomplete absorption and presystemic metabolism in the gut and liver .
After intranasal treatment of patients with rhinitis for 3 weeks , fluticasone propionate plasma concentrations were above the level of detection ( 50 pg / mL ) only when recommended doses were exceeded and then only in occasional samples at low plasma levels .
Distribution Following intravenous administration , the initial disposition phase for fluticasone propionate was rapid and consistent with its high lipid solubility and tissue binding .
The volume of distribution averaged 4 . 2 L / kg .
The percentage of fluticasone propionate bound to human plasma proteins averaged 99 % .
Fluticasone propionate is weakly and reversibly bound to erythrocytes and is not significantly bound to human transcortin .
Elimination Following intravenous dosing , fluticasone propionate showed polyexponential kinetics and had a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 7 . 8 hours .
The total blood clearance of fluticasone propionate is high ( average : 1 , 093 mL / min ) , with renal clearance accounting for less than 0 . 02 % of the total .
Metabolism : The only circulating metabolite detected in man is the 17β - carboxylic acid derivative of fluticasone propionate , which is formed through the CYP3A4 pathway .
This metabolite had less affinity ( approximately 1 / 2 , 000 ) than the parent drug for the glucocorticoid receptor of human lung cytosol in vitro and negligible pharmacological activity in animal studies .
Other metabolites detected in vitro using cultured human hepatoma cells have not been detected in man .
Excretion : Less than 5 % of a radiolabeled oral dose was excreted in the urine as metabolites , with the remainder excreted in the feces as parent drug and metabolites .
Special Populations Fluticasone propionate nasal spray was not studied in any special populations , and no gender - specific pharmacokinetic data have been obtained .
Drug Interactions Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 : Ritonavir : Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4 .
Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor , ritonavir , is not recommended based upon a multiple - dose , crossover drug interaction trial in 18 healthy subjects .
Fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray ( 200 mcg once daily ) was coadministered for 7 days with ritonavir ( 100 mg twice daily ) .
Plasma fluticasone propionate concentrations following fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray alone were undetectable ( < 10 pg / mL ) in most subjects , and when concentrations were detectable , peak levels ( Cmax ) averaged 11 . 9 pg / mL ( range : 10 . 8 to 14 . 1 pg / mL ) and AUC ( 0 - τ ) averaged 8 . 43 pg • h / mL ( range : 4 . 2 to 18 . 8 pg • h / mL ) .
Fluticasone propionate Cmax and AUC ( 0 - τ ) increased to 318 pg / mL ( range : 110 to 648 pg / mL ) and 3 , 102 . 6 pg • h / mL ( range : 1 , 207 . 1 to 5 , 662 . 0 pg • h / mL ) , respectively , after coadministration of ritonavir with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray .
This significant increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulted in a significant decrease ( 86 % ) in serum cortisol AUC .
Ketoconazole : Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 1 , 000 mcg ) and ketoconazole ( 200 mg once daily ) resulted in a 1 . 9 - fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45 % decrease in plasma cortisol AUC , but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol .
Erythromycin : In a multiple - dose drug interaction study , coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate ( 500 mcg twice daily ) and erythromycin ( 333 mg 3 times daily ) did not affect fluticasone propionate pharmacokinetics .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Fluticasone propionate demonstrated no tumorigenic potential in mice at oral doses up to 1 , 000 mcg / kg ( approximately 25 and 20 times the MRHDID in adults and children , respectively , on a mcg / m2 basis ) for 78 weeks or in rats at inhalation doses up to 57 mcg / kg ( approximately 3 and 2 times the MRHDID in adults and children , respectively , on a mcg / m2 basis ) for 104 weeks .
Fluticasone propionate did not induce gene mutation in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells in vitro .
No significant clastogenic effect was seen in cultured human peripheral lymphocytes in vitro or in the mouse micronucleus test .
Fertility and reproductive performance were unaffected in male and female rats at subcutaneous doses up to 50 mcg / kg ( approximately 2 times the MRHDID in adults on a mcg / m2 basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Perennial Nonallergic Rhinitis : Three randomized , double - blind , parallel - group , vehicle placebo - controlled trials were conducted in 1 , 191 subjects to investigate regular use of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP in subjects with perennial nonallergic rhinitis .
These trials evaluated subject - rated total nasal symptom scores ( TNSS ) that included nasal obstruction , postnasal drip , rhinorrhea in subjects treated for 28 days of double - blind therapy and in 1 of the 3 trials for 6 months of open - label treatment .
Two of these trials demonstrated that subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP ( 100 mcg twice daily ) exhibited statistically significant decreases in TNSS compared with subjects treated with vehicle .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 3513 NDC : 50090 - 3513 - 0 16 g in a BOTTLE , PUMP / 1 in a CARTON 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Local Nasal Effects Inform patients that treatment with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP may lead to adverse reactions , which include epistaxis and nasal ulceration .
Candida infection may also occur with treatment with fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
In addition , fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP has been associated with nasal septal perforation and impaired wound healing .
Patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers , nasal surgery , or nasal trauma should not use fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP until healing has occurred [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Glaucoma and Cataracts Inform patients that glaucoma and cataracts are associated with nasal and inhaled corticosteroid use .
Advise patients to notify their healthcare providers if a change in vision is noted while using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions , including Anaphylaxis Inform patients that hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , angioedema , urticaria , contact dermatitis , and rash , may occur after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP .
If such reactions occur , patients should discontinue use of fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Immunosuppression Warn patients who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids to avoid exposure to chickenpox or measles and if they are exposed to consult their healthcare provider without delay .
Inform patients of potential worsening of existing tuberculosis ; fungal , bacterial , viral , or parasitic infections ; or ocular herpes simplex [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Reduced Growth Velocity Advise parents that fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients .
Physicians should closely follow the growth of children and adolescents taking corticosteroids by any route [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Use Daily for Best Effect Inform patients that they should use fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP on a regular basis .
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP , like other corticosteroids , does not have an immediate effect on rhinitis symptoms .
Maximum benefit may not be reached for several days .
Patients should not increase the prescribed dosage but should contact their healthcare providers if symptoms do not improve or if the condition worsens .
Keep Spray Out of Eyes and Mouth Inform patients to avoid spraying fluticasone propionate nasal spray , USP in their eyes and mouth .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Made in USA Rev . 700 : 05 01 / 19 Patient Information Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , 50 mcg ( floo - TIK - a - sone ) Read the Patient Information that comes with fluticasone propionate nasal spray before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Patient Information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is fluticasone propionate nasal spray ?
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray is a prescription medicine used to treat non - allergy nasal symptoms such as runny nose , stuffy nose , sneezing , and nasal itching in adults and children aged 4 years and older .
It is not known if fluticasone propionate nasal spray is safe and effective in children younger than 4 years of age .
Do not use fluticasone propionate nasal spray if you are allergic to fluticasone propionate or any of the ingredients in fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
See “ What are the ingredients in fluticasone propionate nasal spray ? ”
below for a complete list of ingredients .
Before using fluticasone propionate nasal spray , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have or have had nasal sores , nasal surgery , or nasal injury .
• • have or have had eye problems , such as cataracts or glaucoma .
• • have an immune system problem .
• • have any type of viral , bacterial , or fungal infection .
• • are exposed to chickenpox or measles .
• • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if fluticasone propionate nasal spray may harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if fluticasone propionate nasal spray passes into your breast milk and if it can harm your baby . Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray and certain other medicines may interact with each other .
This may cause serious side effects .
Especially , tell your healthcare provider if you take antifungal or anti - HIV medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use fluticasone propionate nasal spray ?
Read the step - by - step instructions for using fluticasone propionate nasal spray at the end of this Patient Information .
• • Fluticasone propionate nasal spray is for use in your nose only .
Do not spray it in your eyes or mouth .
• • Children should use fluticasone propionate nasal spray with an adult ’ s help , as instructed by the child ’ s healthcare provider .
• • Use fluticasone propionate nasal spray exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Do not use fluticasone propionate nasal spray more often than prescribed .
• • Fluticasone propionate nasal spray may take several days of regular use for your rhinitis symptoms to get better .
If your symptoms do not improve or get worse , call your healthcare provider .
• • You will get the best results if you keep using fluticasone propionate nasal spray regularly each day without missing a dose .
After you begin to feel better , your healthcare provider may decrease your dose .
Do not stop using fluticasone propionate nasal spray unless your healthcare provider tells you to do so .
What are the possible side effects of fluticasone propionate nasal spray ?
Fluticasone propionate nasal spray may cause serious side effects , including : • onose problems .
Nose problems may include : • onose bleeds .
• osores ( ulcers ) in your nose .
• oa certain fungal infection in your nose , mouth , and / or throat ( thrush ) .
• ohole in the cartilage of your nose ( nasal septal perforation ) .
Symptoms of nasal septal perforation may include : • • • crusting in the nose • • nose bleeds • • runny nose • • whistling sound when you breathe • oslow wound healing .
You should not use fluticasone propionate nasal spray until your nose has healed if you have a sore in your nose , have had surgery on your nose , or if your nose has been injured .
• • glaucoma and cataracts .
Using nasal and inhaled corticosteroid medicines may result in you developing glaucoma and / or cataracts .
Your healthcare provider may have you see an eye doctor ( ophthalmologist ) if you develop eye symptoms or use fluticasone propionate nasal spray for long periods of time .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any changes in your eye sight while using fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
• • serious allergic reactions .
Call your healthcare provider or get emergency medical care if you get any of the following signs of a serious allergic reaction : • orash • ohives • oswelling of your face , mouth , and tongue • obreathing problems • • weakened immune system and increased chance of getting infections ( immunosuppression ) .
Taking medicines that weaken your immune system makes you more likely to get infections and can make certain infections worse .
These infections may include tuberculosis ( TB ) , ocular herpes simplex infections , and infections caused by fungi , bacteria , viruses , and parasites .
Avoid contact with people who have a contagious disease such as chickenpox or measles while using fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
If you come in contact with someone who has chickenpox or measles call your healthcare provider right away .
Symptoms of an infection may include : ○ fever ○ pain The most common side effects of fluticasone propionate nasal spray include : • • headache • • sore throat • • nose bleeds • • nose burning or itching • • nausea and vomiting • • trouble breathing • • cough These are not all the side effects with fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store fluticasone propionate nasal spray ?
• • Store fluticasone propionate nasal spray between 39 ° F and 86 ° F ( 4 ° C and 30 ° C ) .
Keep fluticasone propionate nasal spray and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of fluticasone propionate nasal spray .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes not mentioned in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use fluticasone propionate nasal spray for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give your fluticasone propionate nasal spray to other people , even if they have the same condition that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about fluticasone propionate nasal spray that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in fluticasone propionate nasal spray ?
Active ingredient : fluticasone propionate .
Inactive ingredients : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 02 % w / w ) , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , microcrystalline cellulose , phenylethyl alcohol ( 0 . 25 % w / w ) , polysorbate 80 , and purified water .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Made in USA Rev . 700 : 05 01 / 19 Instructions for Use Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP , is for use in your nose only .
Read this information before you start using your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP .
Parts of your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP ( See Figure A ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP must be primed before you use it for the first time and when you have not used it for a week or more .
How to prime your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP : • • Shake the bottle gently and then remove the dust cover ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • • Hold the bottle as shown ( See Figure C ) with the nasal applicator pointing away from you and with your forefinger and middle finger on either side of the nasal applicator and your thumb underneath the bottle .
• • Press down and release 6 times until a fine spray appears ( See Figure C ) .
The pump is now ready for use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP : Step 1 .
Blow your nose to clear your nostrils .
Step 2 .
Close 1 nostril .
Tilt your head forward slightly and , keeping the bottle upright , carefully insert the nasal applicator into the other nostril ( See Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Start to breathe in through your nose , and while breathing in press firmly and quickly down 1 time on the applicator to release the spray .
To get a full dose , use your forefinger and middle finger to spray while supporting the base of the bottle with your thumb .
Avoid spraying in your eyes .
Breathe in gently through the nostril ( See Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Breathe out through your mouth .
Step 5 .
If a second spray is required in that nostril , repeat steps 2 through 4 .
Step 6 .
Repeat steps 2 through 5 in the other nostril .
Step 7 .
Wipe the nasal applicator with a clean tissue and replace the dust cover ( See Figure F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Do not use this bottle for more than the labeled number of sprays even though the bottle is not completely empty .
Before you throw the bottle away , you should talk to your healthcare provider to see if a refill is needed .
Do not take extra doses or stop taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP without talking to your healthcare provider .
Cleaning your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP : Your nasal spray should be cleaned at least 1 time each week .
1 .
Remove the dust cover and then gently pull upwards to free the nasal applicator .
2 .
Wash the applicator and dust cover under warm tap water .
Allow to dry at room temperature .
3 .
Place the applicator and dust cover back on the bottle .
4 .
If the nasal applicator becomes blocked , it can be removed and left to soak in warm water .
Rinse the nasal applicator with cold tap water .
Dry the nasal applicator and place it back on the bottle .
Do not try to unblock the nasal applicator byinserting a pin or other sharp object .
Storing your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP : • • Keep your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP , out of the reach of children .
• • Avoid spraying in eyes .
• • Store Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP between 39 ° F and 86 ° F ( 4 ° C and 30 ° C ) .
• • Do not use your Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray , USP after the date shown as “ EXP ” on the label or box .
REMEMBER : This medicine has been prescribed for you by your doctor .
DO NOT give this medicine to anyone else .
FURTHER INFORMATION The leaflet does not contain the complete information about your medicine .
If you have any questions , or are not sureabout something , then you should ask your doctor or pharmacist .
You may want to read this leaflet again .
Please DO NOT THROW IT AWAY until you have finished your medicine .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , N . Y . 11701 Made in U . S . A . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE SPRAY , METERED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
