Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Alcohol wipes Use For cleaning and reducing germs and bacteria that could cause disease when soap & water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from and do not store near heat or open flame . Do not use around cuts or broken skin , around eyes , or on children under 2 months of age .
May cause irritation to sensitive skin , discontinue use if irritation or rash appears ; check ingredient list before using if you have skin allergies .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of eye contact , flush with plenty of water , using soap if available .
Seek medical attention immediately if irritation persists .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Remove top , remove foil , lift pop top , feed wipe through opening , and gently pull to remove wipe .
Gently wipe hands to remove germs and becteria .
After use , close top to keep wipes moist .
Do not flush , please discard wipe in trash after use .
Please recycle canister where possible .
Other information Shelf life 2 years if unopened sealed container .
Store in cool , dry place .
Warm temperatures may reduce shelf life or dry out wipes .
May discolor some fabrics and wood surface .
Inactive ingredients Water , Aloe vera , Citrus Scent .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 750 wipes NDC : 79953 - 750 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
