Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 58 % , Isopropyl Alcohol 12 % , Alkyl dimethyl benzyl ammonium chloride 0 . 2 % Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Antibacterial Hand Disinfectant Gel Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • keep away from children • on open skin wounds • do not use in the cleaning of foodstuffs When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with plenty of water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not breathe directly .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Use enough amount of solution to keep your hands wet .
Rub hands together for 30 seconds .
• Keep away from children , food and animal feed .
• Follow the instruction to avoid risks to human and environmental health .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) in its original packaging upright in a cool dry place that does not receive sunlight .
• Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Do not store more than 4 boxes in a row .
• Dispose of the container P501 in accordance with local regulations .
• Use the unpacked product within 1 month .
• Shelf life ( 25 + / 2 ° C ) of the product is 2 years .
Inactive ingredients Softener 1 . 5 % , Resolvent 28 . 19 % , Fragrance 0 . 1 % , Colouring 0 . 01 % The Resolvent is completed with 27 . 8 % Proportion to 100 % Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 500 mL NDC : 78876 - 709 - 05 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
