Active ingredients Benzocaine 14 . 0 % Butamben 2 . 0 % Tetracaine Hydrochloride 2 . 0 % Contains Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 5 % Cetyl Dimethyl Ethyl Ammonium Bromide 0 . 005 % In a bland , water - soluble base .
Rx Only .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Action The onset of Cetacaine - produced anesthesia is rapid ( approximately 30 seconds ) and the duration of anesthesia is typically 30 - 60 minutes , when used as directed .
This effect is due to the rapid onset , but short duration of action of Benzocaine coupled with the slow onset , but extended duration of Tetracaine HCl and bridged by the intermediate action of Butamben .
These agents act by reversibly blocking nerve conduction .
Speed and duration of action is determined by the ability of the agent to be absorbed by the mucous membrane and nerve sheath and then to diffuse out , and ultimately be metabolized ( primarily by plasma cholinesterases ) to inert metabolites which are excreted in the urine .
Indications Cetacaine is a topical anesthetic indicated for the production of anesthesia of all accessible mucous membrane except the eyes .
Cetacaine Spray is indicated for use to control pain or gagging .
Cetacaine in all forms is indicated to control pain and for use for surgical or endoscopic or other procedures in the ear , nose , mouth , pharynx , larynx , trachea , bronchi , and esophagus .
It may also be used for vaginal or rectal procedures when feasible .
Dosage and Administration Cetacaine Spray should be applied for approximately one second or less for normal anesthesia .
Only a limited quantity of Cetacaine is required for anesthesia .
Spray in excess of two seconds is contraindicated .
Each one - second spray contains an average of 200 mg of product , not including propellant .
To apply , insert the cannula firmly onto the protruding plastic stem on the bottle and press the cannula forward to actuate the spray valve .
The cannula may be removed and reinserted as many times as required for cleaning , or sterilization , and is autoclavable .
Cetacaine Liquid Apply 200 mg liquid ( approximately 0 . 2 mL ) directly to tissue .
Liquid in excess of 400 mg ( approximately 0 . 4 mL ) is contraindicated .
To apply , remove and discard the shipping cap from the bottle .
Replace it with the supplied Luer - lock cap .
Caution : Do not over - tighten .
Remove small cap from luer - lock port , retaining it for replacement after use .
Port allows for a single dip of a cotton or brush applicator for application directly to accessible mucous membrane .
For application into periodontal pockets , Cetylite Luer - lock syringes and Microcapillary Delivery Tips are recommended .
Cetylite Syringes are clearly marked in ( 4 ) 0 . 1 mL increments .
To fill , attach syringe to port by gently twisting clockwise until secure .
Invert and draw desired amount of liquid into the syringe .
Remove filled syringe and attach Microcapillary Delivery Tip to the syringe .
Tip may be bent to improve access .
Apply dropwise to accessible mucous membrane ( such as buccal and lingual sulcus ) by slowly depressing the syringe plunger .
Discard all applicators after use .
An appropriate pediatric dosage has not been established for Cetacaine Spray or Cetacaine Liquid .
Dosages should be reduced in the debilitated elderly , acutely ill , and very young patients ( i . e . , children 2 years and older ) .
Do not use Cetacaine Spray or Cetacaine Liquid to treat infants or children younger than 2 years .
Tissue need not be dried prior to application of Cetacaine .
Cetacaine should be applied directly to the site where pain control is required .
Anesthesia is produced within one minute with an approximate duration of thirty minutes .
Each 200 mg dose of Cetacaine ( Spray or Liquid ) contains 28 mg of benzocaine , 4 mg of butamben and 4 mg of tetracaine HCl .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Methemoglobinemia Cases of methemoglobinemia have been reported in association with local anesthetic use .
Although all patients are at risk for methemoglobinemia , patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , infants under 6 months of age , and concurrent exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites are more susceptible to developing clinical manifestations of the condition .
If local anesthetics must be used in these patients , close monitoring for symptoms and signs of methemoglobinemia is recommended .
Signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia may occur immediately or may be delayed some hours after exposure and are characterized by a cyanotic skin discoloration and abnormal coloration of the blood .
Methemoglobin levels may continue to rise ; therefore , immediate treatment is required to avert more serious central nervous system and cardiovascular adverse effects , including seizures , coma , arrhythmias , and death .
Discontinue Cetacaine and any other oxidizing agents .
Depending on the severity of the symptoms , patients may respond to supportive care , i . e . , oxygen therapy , hydration .
More severe symptoms may require treatment with methylene blue , exchange transfusion , or hyperbaric oxygen .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Patients that are administered local anesthetics may be at increased risk of developing methemoglobinemia when concurrently exposed to the following oxidizing agents : Class Examples Nitrates / Nitrites nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , nitric oxide , nitrous oxide Local anesthetics benzocaine , lidocaine , bupivacaine , mepivacaine , tetracaine , prilocaine , procaine , articaine , ropivacaine Antineoplastic agents cyclophosphamide , flutamide , rasburicase , ifosfamide , hydroxyurea Antibiotics dapsone , sulfonamides , nitrofurantoin , para - aminosalicylic acid Antimalarials chloroquine , primaquine Anticonvulsants phenytoin , sodium valproate , phenobarbital Other drugs acetaminophen , metoclopramide , sulfa drugs ( i . e . , sulfasalazine ) , quinine PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Inform patients that use of local anesthetics may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly .
Advise patients or caregivers to stop use and seek immediate medical attention if they or someone in their care experience the following signs or symptoms : pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) ; headache ; rapid heart rate ; shortness of breath ; lightheadedness ; or fatigue .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Unpredictable adverse reactions ( i . e . hypersensitivity , including anaphylaxis ) are extremely rare .
Localized allergic reactions may occur after prolonged or repeated use of any aminobenzoate anesthetic .
The most common adverse reaction caused by local anesthetics is contact dermatitis characterized by erythema and pruritus that may progress to vesiculation and oozing .
This occurs most commonly in patients following prolonged self - medication , which is contraindicated .
If rash , urticaria , edema , or other manifestations of allergy develop during use , the drug should be discontinued .
To minimize the possibility of a serious allergic reaction , Cetacaine preparations should not be applied for prolonged periods except under continual supervision .
Dehydration of the epithelium or an escharotic effect may also result from prolonged contact .
Use in Pregnancy Safe use of Cetacaine has not been established with respect to possible adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , Cetacaine should not be used during early pregnancy , unless in the judgement of a physician , the potential benefits outweigh the unknown hazards .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when Cetacaine is used .
Contraindications Do not use Cetacaine Spray or Cetacaine Liquid to treat infants or children younger than 2 years .
Cetacaine is not suitable and should never be used for injection .
Do not use on the eyes .
To avoid excessive systemic absorption , Cetacaine should not be applied to large areas of denuded or inflamed tissue .
Cetacaine should not be administered to patients who are hypersensitive to any of its ingredients or to patients known to have cholinesterase deficiencies .
Tolerance may vary with the status of the patient .
Cetacaine should not be used under dentures or cotton rolls , as retention of the active ingredients under a denture or cotton roll could possibly cause an escharotic effect .
Routine precaution for the use of any topical anesthetic should be observed when using Cetacaine .
Autoclavable Cannula for Cetacaine Spray • The supplied 4 " stainless steel cannula for Cetacaine Spray is specially designed for accessibility and application of Cetacaine , at the required site of pain control .
Replacement cannulas are available as a 10 - pack ( Item # 0205 ) .
Luer - lock Syringes and Microcapillary Delivery Tips for Cetacaine Liquid • Cetacaine Liquid Syringes and Microcapillary Delivery Tips are supplied with the Cetacaine Liquid Chairside Kit ( Item # 0218 ) and Clinical Kit ( Item # 0212 ) .
They also can be purchased separately .
Syringes are available in packs of 50 ( Item # 0219 S ) or packs of 100 ( Item # 0214 ) .
Delivery Tips are available in packs of 50 ( Item # 0219 T ) or packs of 100 ( Item # 0213 ) .
How Supplied • Cetacaine Spray , 20 g bottle , including propellant [ 1 ] ( Item # 0220 , NDC 10223 - 0201 - 3 ) which includes one cannula .
• Cetacaine Spray Single Patient Use , 5 g bottle , including propellant null ( Item # 0222 , NDC 10223 - 0201 - 4 ) which includes one cannula .
• Cetacaine Liquid Chairside Kit ( Item # 0218 NDC 10223 - 0202 - 6 ) which includes one 14 g bottle of Cetacaine Liquid with Luer - lock dispenser cap , 20 syringes and 20 delivery tips .
• Cetacaine Liquid Clinical Kit ( Item # 0212 , NDC 10223 - 0202 - 5 ) which includes one 30 g bottle of Cetacaine Liquid with Luer - lock dispenser cap , 100 syringes and 100 delivery tips .
• Cetacaine Liquid , 14 g bottle ( Item # 0203 , NDC 10223 - 0202 - 2 ) with Luer - lock dispenser cap .
• Cetacaine Liquid , 30 g bottle ( Item # 0211 , NDC 10223 - 0202 - 4 ) with Luer - lock dispenser cap .
[ 1 ] WARNINGCetacaine Spray contains CFC - 114 and CFC - 11 , substances which harm public health and environment by destroying ozone in the upper atmosphere .
The propellant leak rate of Cetacaine Spray does not meet the USP requirements .
Made in USA Cetylite Industries , Inc .
Pennsauken , NJ 08110 Rev . 10 / 18 www . cetylite . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 g Bottle Box NDC 10223 - 0201 - 3 Item No . 0220 Cetacaine ® Topical Anesthetic SPRAY Control Pain Control Gagging Effective Only on Mucous Membrane Rx only Exclusive Spray Cannula Provides Complete Control ( One Cannula Included ) ( Benzocaine 14 . 0 % , Butamben 2 . 0 % , Tetracaine Hydrochloride 2 . 0 % ) CETYLITE ® Cetylite Industries , Inc .
Pennsauken , NJ 08110 - 3293 www . cetylite . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
