WARNING : CNS TOXICITY , HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA , AND PULMONARY TOXICITY Severe neurologic effects , including blindness , coma , and death were observed in dose - ranging studies in patients with acute leukemia when fludarabine phosphate was administered at high doses .
This severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 days to 7 days ) than the recommended intravenous dose ( 25 mg / m2 / day ) .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity has been rarely ( ≤ 0 . 2 % ) reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Periodic neurological assessments are recommended .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine phosphate should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] High incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity was observed in a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin is not recommended [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] WARNING : CNS TOXICITY , HEMOLYTIC ANEMIA , AND PULMONARY TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 days to 7 days ) than the recommended intravenous dose .
This toxicity was seen in ≤ 0 . 2 % of patients treated at the recommended intravenous dose levels ( 25 mg / m2 ) .
( 5 . 1 ) • Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia has been reported after one or more cycles of treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • High incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity was observed in a clinical investigation of the combination of fludarabine phosphate with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) .
( 5 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fludarabine phosphate is indicated as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) whose disease has not responded to or has progressed during or after treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
Studies demonstrating clinical benefit such as prolongation of survival or relief of symptoms have not been performed .
Studies providing a direct comparison of the clinical efficacy and safety of orally administered fludarabine phosphate relative to intravenously administered fludarabine phosphate have not been performed .
Fludarabine phosphate is a nucleotide metabolic inhibitor indicated as a single agent for the treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) whose disease has not responded to or has progressed during or after treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
Studies demonstrating clinical benefit such as prolongation of survival or relief of symptoms have not been performed .
A direct comparison of the clinical efficacy and safety of orally administered fludarabine phosphate relative to intravenously administered fludarabine phosphate has not been studied .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Note : The oral dose is different than the intravenous dose .
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) ( 2 . 1 ) : • The recommended adult dose is 40 mg / m2 administered daily for five consecutive days by the oral route .
• Begin each 5 - day course of treatment every 28 days .
Renal Impairment ( 2 . 2 ) : • Reduce dose by 20 % in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
• Reduce dose by 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) 2 . 1 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ( CLL ) The oral dose is different than the intravenous dose .
The recommended adult dose of fludarabine phosphate is 40 mg / m2 administered by mouth daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 - day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
Fludarabine phosphate film - coated tablets can be taken either on an empty stomach or with food .
The tablets have to be swallowed whole with water ; they should not be chewed or broken .
The following table provides guidance for determining the number of tablets of fludarabine phosphate to be administered based on body surface area ( BSA ) : TABLE 1 : SUGGESTED NUMBER OF TABLETS TO BE ADMINISTEREDBody Surface Area ( BSA ) Calculated Total Dose Equivalent to 40 mg / m2 BSA ( rounded up or down to nearest 10 mg ) Total Number of Tablets 0 . 75 – 0 . 88 30 mg 3 0 . 89 – 1 . 13 40 mg 4 1 . 14 – 1 . 38 50 mg 5 1 . 39 – 1 . 63 60 mg 6 1 . 64 – 1 . 88 70 mg 7 1 . 89 – 2 . 13 80 mg 8 2 . 14 – 2 . 38 90 mg 9 2 . 39 – 2 . 50 100 mg 10 A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from fludarabine phosphate .
These include advanced age , renal insufficiency , and bone marrow impairment .
Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established .
It is recommended that three additional cycles of fludarabine phosphate be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued .
2 . 2 Renal Impairment • Reduce dose by 20 % in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Reduce dose by 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 10 mg film - coated tablets that are capsule shaped and salmon pink in color , marked on one side with ‘ LN ’ in a regular hexagon .
• 10 milligram film - coated tablets .
( see 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None • None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia .
Monitor blood counts before and during treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • Infections .
Monitor for signs or symptoms of infection .
( 5 . 3 ) • Tumor lysis syndrome .
Take precautions for patients at high risk .
( 5 . 4 ) • Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease .
Use only irradiated blood products for transfusions .
( 5 . 6 ) • Fludarabine phosphate dose should be adjusted in patients with mild to moderate ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment .
( 5 . 7 ) • Fetal harm may occur when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women of childbearing potential and fertile males must take contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after the cessation of therapy .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Neurotoxicity Dose - dependent neurotoxicity has been observed with fludarabine phosphate .
Dose levels approximately 4 times greater ( 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 days to 7 days ) than the recommended intravenous dose ( 25 mg / m2 / day for 5 days ) were associated with a syndrome characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
Symptoms appeared from 21 days to 60 days following the last dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 . 1 % ) who received fludarabine phosphate intravenously at high doses ( ≥ 96 mg / m2 / day for 5 days to 7 days per course ) developed severe neurotoxicity , while only one of 443 patients ( 0 . 2 % ) who received the drug intravenously at low doses ( ≤ 40 mg / m2 / day for 5 days per course ) developed toxicity .
In the pivotal clinical study conducted with fludarabine phosphate film - coated tablets administered at 40 mg / m2 , severe impairment of consciousness was reported in one patient .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine phosphate on the central nervous system is unknown ; however , patients have received the recommended dose for up to 15 courses of therapy .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
5 . 2 Bone Marrow Suppression Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
In a study in adult solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 days to 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 days to 32 days ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy - induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of fludarabine phosphate requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in adult patients .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
One case of pancytopenia was reported in the pivotal clinical study conducted with oral fludarabine phosphate tablets .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia or a positive Coombs ’ test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
The mechanism ( s ) which predispose patients to the development of this complication has not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine phosphate should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
5 . 3 Pulmonary Toxicity A high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity was observed in a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) in adults .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
5 . 4 Infections Of 133 adult patients with CLL who received intravenous fludarabine phosphate in two clinical trials , there were 29 fatalities during study .
Approximately 50 % of the fatalities were due to infection and 25 % due to progressive disease .
Of 183 adult patients with CLL that received oral fludarabine phosphate in two clinical trials , there were 13 deaths .
Approximately 50 % of the deaths were due to progressive disease , while two patient deaths ( 15 % ) were attributed to infection .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection .
5 . 5 Tumor Lysis Syndrome Tumor lysis syndrome associated with fludarabine phosphate treatment has been reported in patients with CLL with large tumor burdens .
Since fludarabine phosphate can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
5 . 6 Use of Transfusions Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease has been observed rarely after transfusion of non - irradiated blood in fludarabine phosphate treated patients .
Consideration should , therefore , be given to the use of irradiated blood products in those patients requiring transfusions while undergoing treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
5 . 7 Renal Impairment Fludarabine phosphate must be administered cautiously in patients with renal impairment .
Following dosing of the intravenous product , the total body clearance of 2 - fluoro - ara - A has been shown to be directly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Patients with mild to moderate impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) should have their oral fludarabine phosphate dose reduced by 20 % and be monitored closely .
Patients with severe impairment of renal function ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) should have their oral fludarabine phosphate dose reduced by 50 % and be monitored closely .
5 . 8 Monitoring • Hematologic and Nonhematologic Toxicity Fludarabine phosphate is an antineoplastic agent with potentially significant toxic side effects .
Patients undergoing therapy should be closely observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity .
Periodic assessment of peripheral blood counts is recommended to detect the development of anemia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
• Hematopoietic Suppression During treatment , the patient ’ s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression .
• Infections Patients treated with fludarabine phosphate appear to be at an increased risk of infection .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of infection .
5 . 9 Pregnancy Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fludarabine phosphate administered to rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformation , and decreased fetal body weights .
If fludarabine phosphate is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Women of childbearing potential and fertile males must take contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after the cessation of therapy .
[ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 30 % ) include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) .
Fever , weakness , infection , pain , cough and anorexia were also reported as common adverse reactions .
( 6 ) 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to fludarabine phosphate tablets in 159 patients exposed to the drug .
Fludarabine phosphate tablets were studied primarily in Study 1 in 78 patients with CLL who received prior therapy and in Study 2 in 81 patients with CLL who had not received prior therapy .
Based on experience with the intravenous and oral use of fludarabine phosphate , the most common adverse reactions include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever and chills , infection , and nausea and vomiting .
Other commonly reported events include malaise , fatigue , anorexia , and weakness .
Serious opportunistic infections have occurred in patients with CLL treated with fludarabine phosphate .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions and those reactions which are more clearly related to the drug , as reported in clinical studies conducted with intravenous and oral fludarabine phosphate , are arranged below according to body system .
Hematopoietic Systems Hematologic events ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and / or anemia ) were reported in the majority of patients with CLL treated with fludarabine phosphate .
During intravenous fludarabine phosphate treatment of 133 patients with CLL , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm3 in 59 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 60 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 55 % .
Among 78 patients with B - CLL who were treated with oral fludarabine phosphate , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm3 in 37 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 14 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 17 % of patients .
Myelosuppression may be severe , cumulative , and may affect multiple cell lines .
Bone marrow fibrosis occurred in one CLL patient treated with fludarabine phosphate intravenously .
In the pivotal oral fludarabine phosphate study ( Study 1 ) , there was one report of a non - fatal case of pancytopenia .
Similarly , there was one case of non - fatal pancytopenia reported among the 133 patients with CLL treated with intravenous fludarabine phosphate .
Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemias have been reported to occur in patients receiving fludarabine phosphate .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
Metabolic Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported in patients with CLL treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
This complication may include hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , hyperkalemia , hematuria , urate crystalluria , and renal failure .
The onset of this syndrome may be heralded by flank pain and hematuria .
Nervous System Objective weakness , agitation , confusion , visual disturbances , and coma have occurred in patients with CLL treated with fludarabine phosphate at the recommended dose .
Peripheral neuropathy and one case of wrist - drop have been observed with intravenous administration of fludarabine phosphate .
In Study 1 for oral fludarabine phosphate , there was one report of severe impairment of consciousness that presented concurrent with hemolytic anemia .
This patient had enrolled in the study with pre - existing peripheral neurotoxicity .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Pulmonary System Pneumonia , a frequent manifestation of infection in patients with CLL , was observed in two clinical trials conducted with intravenous fludarabine phosphate ( 16 % and 22 % ) and in two clinical trials with oral fludarabine phosphate ( 8 % and 3 % ) .
Pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions to fludarabine phosphate characterized by dyspnea , cough and interstitial pulmonary infiltrate have been observed .
In Study 1 conducted with oral fludarabine phosphate , severe pulmonary toxicity was reported in 5 of 78 patients , often in conjunction with respiratory or pulmonary infections and hence not regarded as isolated drug related pulmonary toxicity .
Gastrointestinal System Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , stomatitis and gastrointestinal bleeding have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate .
Nausea and vomiting occurred in up to 38 % of patients following treatment with oral fludarabine phosphate in the clinical trials .
Cardiovascular Edema has been frequently reported .
One patient developed a pericardial effusion possibly related to treatment with fludarabine phosphate .
No other severe cardiovascular events were considered to be drug related .
Genitourinary System Hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported in patients treated intravenously with fludarabine phosphate .
Skin Skin toxicity , consisting primarily of skin rashes , has been reported in patients treated with oral and intravenous fludarabine phosphate .
Data in Table 2 are derived from the 159 patients with CLL who received fludarabine phosphate in Study 1 and Study 2 .
TABLE 2 : Incidence ( ≥ 5 % ) of Non - Hematologic Adverse Reactions in Patients with CLL Treated with Fludarabine Phosphate TabletsADVERSE REACTIONS Study 1 ( N = 78 ) % Study 2 ( N = 81 ) % ANY ADVERSE REACTION 82 89 BODY AS A WHOLE 59 77 FEVER 26 11 INFECTION 12 17 PAIN 5 19 FLU SYNDROME 8 5 DIAPHORESIS 8 0 NEUROLOGICAL 19 41 WEAKNESS / FATIGUE ( ASTHENIA ) 13 31 SWEATING INCREASED 0 14 HEADACHE 9 9 PULMONARY 37 53 COUGH 21 0 COUGH INCREASED 0 6 PNEUMONIA 8 3 DYSPNEA 1 5 SINUSITIS 1 5 UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 9 14 RHINITIS 3 11 BRONCHITIS 6 9 METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL 3 31 WEIGHT DECREASED 1 6 LACTIC DEHYDROGENASE INCREASED 0 6 PERIPHERAL EDEMA 0 7 GASTROINTESTINAL 41 28 NAUSEA 5 1 DIARRHEA 6 5 ANOREXIA 19 0 ABDOMINAL PAIN 8 10 CUTANEOUS 22 25 RASH 5 4 SKIN DISORDER 0 6 HERPES SIMPLEX 8 7 GENITOURINARY 8 14 URINARY TRACT INFECTION 4 5 CARDIOVASCULAR 14 17 CHEST PAIN 0 5 MUSCULOSKELETAL 10 19 BACK PAIN 4 9 6 . 2 Post Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of oral fludarabine phosphate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possibly to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Hematopoietic Systems Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in post - marketing surveillance .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Nervous System In post - marketing experience , cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have been reported .
Most cases had a fatal outcome .
Many of these cases were confounded by prior and / or concurrent chemotherapy .
The median time to onset was approximately one year .
Pulmonary System In post - marketing experience , cases of severe pulmonary toxicity have been observed with fludarabine phosphate use which resulted in acute respiratory distress syndrome , respiratory distress , pulmonary hemorrhage , pulmonary fibrosis , and respiratory failure .
After exclusion of an infectious origin , some patients experienced symptom improvement with corticosteroids .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of severe pulmonary toxicity .
( 5 . 3 and 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Pentostatin The use of fludarabine phosphate in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of severe pulmonary toxicity .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy “ Pregnancy Category D . See ‘ Warnings and Precautions ’ section . ”
Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate in pregnant women .
Fludarabine phosphate was embryolethal and teratogenic in both rats and rabbits .
If fludarabine phosphate is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Women of childbearing potential and fertile males must take contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after the cessation of therapy .
In rats , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 1 . 5 times and 4 . 5 times the recommended human oral dose ( 40 mg / m2 ) administered during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformations ( cleft palate , exencephaly , and fetal vertebrae deformities ) and decreased fetal body weights .
Maternal toxicity was not apparent at 1 . 5 times the human oral dose , and was limited to slight body weight decreases at 4 . 5 times the human oral dose .
In rabbits , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 2 . 4 times the human oral dose administered during organogenesis increased embryo and fetal lethality as indicated by increased resorptions and a decrease in live fetuses .
A significant increase in malformations including cleft palate , hydrocephaly , adactyly , brachydactyly , fusions of the digits , diaphragmatic hernia , heart / great vessel defects , and vertebrae / rib anomalies were seen in all dose levels ( ≥ 0 . 3 times the human oral dose ) .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether fludarabine phosphate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions including tumorgenicity in nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 78 previously treated patients with B - CLL treated with oral fludarabine phosphate 50 % were ≥ age 65 and 3 % were ≥ age 75 .
The response rate was generally lower among patients age 65 and older .
Among previously treated patients ( Study 1 ) age 65 and older , the overall objective response , according to standardized response criteria developed by the National Cancer Institute CLL Working Group ( NCI criteria ) , was 41 % .
The safety profile among younger and older patients on study was similar .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses or safety between older and younger patients .
8 . 6 Patients with Renal Impairment In patients receiving intravenous fludarabine phosphate , the total body clearance of the metabolite 2 - fluoro - ara - adenine ( 2 F - ara - A ) correlated with the creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the drug .
Renal clearance represented approximately 40 % of the total body clearance .
Patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) receiving 20 % reduced fludarabine phosphate dose had a similar exposure compared to patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended dose ( AUC ; 21 nM • h / mL versus 20 nM • h / mL ) .
Two patients with severe renal impairment ( < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) receiving 40 % reduced fludarabine phosphate dose had a 40 % increase in exposure compared to patients with normal renal function receiving the recommended dose .
The mean total body clearance was 172 mL / min for patients with normal renal function , 124 mL / min for patients with mild to moderately impaired renal function , and 71 mL / min for the two patients with severe renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE High doses of fludarabine phosphate [ See Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] have been associated with an irreversible central nervous system toxicity characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
High doses are also associated with severe thrombocytopenia and neutropenia due to bone marrow suppression .
There is no known specific antidote for fludarabine phosphate overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
In Study 2 , two patients ingested an overdose of 20 % to 33 % of oral fludarabine phosphate .
No serious side effects were reported .
11 DESCRIPTION The chemical name for fludarabine phosphate is 9 H - Purin - 6 - amine , 2 - fluoro - 9 - ( 5 - O - phosphono - ß - D - arabinofuranosyl ) ( 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP ) .
The molecular formula of fludarabine phosphate is C10H13FN5O7P ( MW 365 . 2 ) and the structure is provided in Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Fludarabine phosphate film - coated tablets for oral administration contain fludarabine phosphate , a fluorinated nucleotide analog of the antiviral agent vidarabine , 9 - beta - D - arabinofuranosyladenine ( ara - A ) that is relatively resistant to deamination by adenosine deaminase .
Each tablet contains 10 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate .
The tablet core consists of microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , colloidal anhydrous silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate .
The film - coat contains hypromellose , talc , titanium dioxide ( E171 ) and ferric oxide pigment ( red / E172 , yellow / E172 ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Fludarabine phosphate ( 2 F - ara - AMP ) is a synthetic purine nucleotide antimetabolite agent .
Upon administration , 2 F - ara - AMP is rapidly dephosphorylated in the plasma to 2 F - ara - A , which then enters into the cell .
Intracellularly , 2 F - ara - A is converted to the 5 ' - triphosphate , 2 - fluoro - ara - ATP ( 2 F - ara - ATP ) .
2 F - ara - ATP competes with deoxyadenosine triphosphate for incorporation into DNA .
Once incorporated into DNA , 2 F - ara - ATP functions as a DNA chain terminator , inhibits DNA polymerase alpha , gamma , and delta , and inhibits ribonucleoside diphosphate reductase .
2 F - ara - A also inhibits DNA primase and DNA ligase I .
The mechanism of action of this antimetabolite is not completely characterized and may be multi - faceted .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , uncontrolled , open - label , parallel study , patients with B - cell CLL were administered a single dose of oral fludarabine phosphate 40 mg / m2 ( n = 42 ) or intravenous fludarabine phosphate 25 mg / m2 ( n = 14 ) .
The maximum increase in the baseline - corrected mean change in QTcI ( individual - corrected QT interval ) following treatment with oral fludarabine phosphate was less than 10 milliseconds .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Studies with the intravenous product have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is converted to the active metabolite , 2 F - ara - A .
Clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2 F - ara - A pharmacokinetics .
Following administration of the intravenous product , systemic plasma clearance of 2 F - ara - A is approximately 117 mL / min to 145 mL / min .
After five daily 30 minute intravenous infusions of 25 mg 2 F - ara - AMP / m2 to cancer patients , trough concentrations of 2 F - ara - A increased by a factor of about 2 .
The terminal half - life of 2 F - ara - A was approximately 20 hours .
Plasma protein binding of 2 F - ara - A was approximately 19 % to 29 % .
A correlation was noted between the degree of absolute granulocyte count nadir and increased area under the concentration x time curve ( AUC ) .
2 F - ara - A exhibits dose proportional increases in AUC and Cmax after single oral doses of 50 mg , 70 mg or 90 mg of 2 F - ara - AMP .
Cmax of 2 F - ara - A occurs 1 hour to 2 hours after single or multiple oral doses and is approximately 20 % to 30 % of the maximum plasma concentrations produced at the end of a 30 minute intravenous infusion of the same dose .
The absolute oral bioavailability of 2 F - ara - A is 50 - 65 % following single and repeated doses of the immediate release tablet formulation .
Similar systemic exposure ( AUC ) was observed after a single 40 mg / m2 fludarabine phosphate oral dose and a single 25 mg / m2 fludarabine phosphate intravenous dose .
The terminal half - life of 2 F - ara - A was similar to that following intravenous administration ; approximately 20 hours .
The Cmax , AUC and terminal half - life of 2 F - ara - A are unaffected when administered with a high fat meal , although Tmax is slightly delayed from 1 . 3 hours to 2 . 2 hours .
Following intravenous administration , renal clearance of 2 F - ara - A represents approximately 40 % of the total body clearance of fludarabine phosphate , and total body clearance is inversely correlated with serum creatinine and creatinine clearance .
In two patients with median creatinine clearance of 22 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , 2 F - ara - A clearance was reduced by 56 % .
Dosage adjustment based on creatinine clearance is recommended as follows : Reduce dose by 20 % in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 30 to 70 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Reduce dose by 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal carcinogenicity studies with fludarabine phosphate have been conducted .
Fludarabine phosphate is a clastogen .
Fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vitro to Chinese hamster ovary cells ( chromosome aberration assay ) in the presence of metabolic activation and induced sister chromatid exchanges both in the presence and absence of metabolic activation .
In addition , fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vivo ( mouse micronucleus assay ) but was not mutagenic to germ cells ( dominant lethal test in male mice ) .
Fludarabine phosphate was not mutagenic to bacteria ( Ames test ) or mammalian cells either in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Studies in mice , rats and dogs have demonstrated dose - related adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Observations consisted of a decrease in mean testicular weights in mice and rats with a trend toward decreased testicular weights in dogs and degeneration and necrosis of spermatogenic epithelium of the testes in mice , rats and dogs .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Study 1 , a single - arm , open - label study of fludarabine phosphate film - coated tablets was conducted in 78 adult patients with CLL refractory to at least one prior standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
In this multicenter study patients were treated with oral fludarabine phosphate at a dose of 40 mg / m2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The patient population median age was 64 . 5 years and consisted of 72 % males and 28 % females .
Ninety - nine percent of the patients were Caucasian .
The Rai stage for patients entering the study was : Stage 0 ( 3 . 9 % ) , Stage I ( 20 . 5 % ) , Stage II ( 32 . 1 % ) , Stage III ( 11 . 5 % ) , and Stage IV ( 32 . 1 % ) .
The mean number of treatment cycles was 5 . 1 with a mean daily dose of fludarabine phosphate of 38 mg / m2 .
The overall objective response , according to standardized response criteria developed by the National Cancer Institute CLL Working Group ( NCI criteria ) , was 51 % , including 18 % complete responses and 33 % partial responses .
The overall response rate , according to standardized criteria developed by the International Workshop on CLL ( IWCLL criteria ) , was 46 % , including 21 % complete responses and 26 % partial responses .
Data on duration of response was not collected .
In Study 2 , a supportive single - arm , open - label study , fludarabine phosphate tablets were administered to 81 previously untreated patients with B - CLL .
In this multicenter study each patient was treated with oral fludarabine phosphate at a dose of 40 mg / m2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The patient population median age was 64 . 0 years and consisted of 63 % males and 37 % females .
Ninety - nine percent of the patients were Caucasian .
The Rai stage for patients entering the study was : Stage 0 ( 3 . 7 % ) , Stage I ( 37 . 0 % ) , Stage II ( 37 . 0 % ) , Stage III ( 9 . 9 % ) , and Stage IV ( 12 . 3 % ) .
The mean number of treatment cycles was 5 . 9 with a mean daily dose per patient of 71 mg to 74 mg .
The overall responses rate , according to NCI criteria , was 80 % , including 12 % complete responses and 68 % partial responses .
The overall response rate , according to IWCLL criteria , was 72 % , including 37 % complete responses and 35 % partial responses .
The median duration of response was 22 . 9 months .
Study 3 was a supportive randomized controlled open label study in patients with previously untreated B - CLL that included fludarabine phosphate monotherapy and fludarabine phosphate combination therapy arms .
In this study 107 evaluable patients received fludarabine phosphate 40 mg / m2 orally daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The overall response rate according to modified NCI criteria was 74 % and the CR plus nodular PR rate was 41 % .
15 REFERENCES • Preventing Occupational Exposures to Antineoplastic and Other Hazardous Drugs in Health Care Settings .
NIOSH Alert 2004 - 165 .
• OSHA Technical Manual , TED 1 - 0 . 15 A , Section VI : Chapter 2 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA , 1999 .
http : / / www . osha . gov / dts / osta / otm / otm _ vi / otm _ vi _ 2 . html • American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2006 ; 63 : 1172 - 1193 .
• Polovich , M . , White , J . M . , & Kelleher , L . O . ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice ( 2 nd .
ed . )
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING HOW SUPPLIED Fludarabine phosphate is supplied in 10 milligram tablets that are film - coated , capsule shaped , salmon pink in color , and marked on one side with ‘ LN ’ in a regular hexagon .
Each film - coated tablet contains 10 mg fludarabine phosphate .
The tablets are supplied in blisters , each blister strip containing 5 tablets .
Packages of 15 and 20 tablets are available in child - resistant containers .
NDC 45414 - 311 - 15 : 15 - 10 milligram film - coated tablets per container .
Each film - coated tablet is packaged in an individual blister package ; 5 tablets per blister strip ; 3 blister strips packaged in a plastic bottle with a child - resistant container closure ; each bottle is packaged in an individual chip - board carton .
NDC 45414 - 311 - 20 : 20 - 10 milligram film - coated tablets per container .
Each film - coated tablet is packaged in an individual blister package ; 5 tablets per blister strip ; 4 blister strips packaged in a plastic bottle with a child - resistant container closure ; each bottle is packaged in an individual chip - board carton .
STORAGE Store under normal lighting conditions at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
HANDLING AND DISPOSAL Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be considered .
Consideration should be given to handling and disposal according to guidelines issued for cytotoxic drugs .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published . 1 - 4 Caution should be exercised in the handling of fludarabine phosphate .
Do not crush tablets .
Avoid exposure by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes or by inhalation .
If contact occurs , wash thoroughly with soap and water or wash the eyes immediately with gently flowing water for at least 15 minutes .
Consult healthcare provider in case of a skin reaction or if the drug gets in the eyes .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Bone Marrow Suppression Inform patients that fludarabine phosphate decreases blood cell counts such as white blood cells , platelets , and red blood cells .
Thus , it is important that periodic assessment of their blood count be performed to detect the development of neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] 17 . 2 Infections Instruct patients to notify their physician promptly if fever or other signs of infection such as chills , cough , or burning pain on urination occurs while on therapy .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 17 . 3 Pregnancy Women of childbearing potential and fertile males must take contraceptive measures during and at least for 6 months after the cessation of therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] 17 . 4 Handling and Disposal Instruct patients that caution should be exercised in the handling of fludarabine phosphate .
Do not crush tablets .
Avoid exposure by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes or by inhalation .
If contact occurs , wash thoroughly with soap and water or wash the eyes immediately with gently flowing water for at least 15 minutes .
Consult healthcare provider in case of a skin reaction or if the drug gets in the eyes .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for directions about how to safely dispose of fludarabine phosphate .
Manufactured for : Antisoma Research Limited , Cambridge , MA 02139 Manufactured by : Bayer Schering Pharma AG , Berlin , Germany Patient Package Insert [ TRADENAME ] ( phonetic spelling ) ( oral fludarabine phosphate film - coated tablets ) Read this Patient Information leaflet before you start taking [ TRADENAME ] and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What Is [ TRADENAME ] ?
[ TRADENAME ] is a prescription anticancer medicine that slows or stops the growth of cancer cells in adults with chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) .
[ TRADENAME ] also stops or slows the growth of some healthy cells .
This can cause side effects that you should know about and report to your healthcare provider .
[ TRADENAME ] has not been studied in children .
What is the most important information I should know about [ TRADENAME ] ?
On rare occasions people taking [ TRADENAME ] can have life - threatening symptoms .
If you : • have problems seeing • feel very sleepy , tired , or confused • have shortness of breath or have trouble breathing • have yellow skin or dark urine Tell your healthcare provider right away .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking [ TRADENAME ] ?
Before taking [ TRADENAME ] , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have kidney problems • have bleeding problems • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if [ TRADENAME ] will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Women should not get pregnant during treatment with [ TRADENAME ] because the unborn baby may be harmed .
Both men and women must take contraceptive measures during and for at least six months after cessation of therapy .
Call your doctor right away if you become pregnant during or in the six months after treatment with [ TRADENAME ] .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if [ TRADENAME ] passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take [ TRADENAME ] or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using [ TRADENAME ] with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Using [ TRADENAME ] with other medicines may cause serious side effects .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your healthcare provider .
How should I take [ TRADENAME ] ?
• Take [ TRADENAME ] exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how much and when to take [ TRADENAME ] .
• [ TRADENAME ] can be taken with or without food .
• [ TRADENAME ] have to be swallowed whole with water ; they should never be chewed , crushed , or broken .
If you cannot swallow [ TRADENAME ] whole , ask your healthcare provider if you can take another form of fludarabine .
• If you miss a dose call your healthcare provider .
• If you take too much call your healthcare provider .
What should I avoid while taking [ TRADENAME ] ?
• Do not allow other people or pets to touch or take [ TRADENAME ] .
• Avoid letting the tablets ( whole or broken ) touch your skin • Do not chew tablets or hold them in your mouth .
Swallow tablets right away .
• Do not breathe in any powder or residue from a broken tablet .
• If you touch a broken tablet , wash the area thoroughly with soap and water .
• If any [ TRADENAME ] gets in your eyes , wash your eyes right away with water for at least 15 minutes , and call your healthcare provider right away .
• Call your healthcare provider right away in case of a skin reaction .
What are the possible side effects of [ TRADENAME ] ?
See “ What is the most important information I should know about [ TRADENAME ] ? ”
[ TRADENAME ] may cause serious side effects , including : Low blood cell counts .
[ TRADENAME ] lessens the number of blood cells that fight infection , help your blood to clot , and carry oxygen throughout your body .
This can result in • Infection • Bleeding • Tiredness .
Avoid activities that can raise your chances of these conditions .
Your healthcare provider will check your blood counts so that you will know when you are most at risk for infection , bleeding , and tiredness .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have a temperature of 100 . 5 F . or above or do not feel well .
Do not take a fever medicine until you check with your healthcare provider .
[ TRADENAME ] may cause other side effects , including : • nausea and vomiting • loss of appetite • skin rash • swelling in your legs • diarrhea • redness and irritation inside your mouth ( stomatitis ) • abdominal and muscle pain .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of [ TRADENAME ] .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store and throw away [ TRADENAME ] ?
• Store [ TRADENAME ] at 59 - 86 ° F ( 15 - 30 ° C ) .
• Keep under normal light in a child - resistant container .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
• Do not put [ TRADENAME ] in your regular household trash .
• Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for directions about how to safely throw away and handle [ TRADENAME ] .
Keep [ TRADENAME ] and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about [ TRADENAME ] Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information .
Do not use [ TRADENAME ] for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give [ TRADENAME ] to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about [ TRADENAME ] .
For more information about [ TRADENAME ] , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about [ TRADENAME ] that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to www . fludarabine . com or call 1 - 8 XX - XXX - XXXX .
What are the ingredients in [ TRADENAME ] ?
Active ingredients : fludarabine phosphate Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , lactose monohydrate , colloidal anhydrous silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate .
The film - coat contains hypromellose , talc , titanium dioxide ( E171 ) and ferric oxide pigment ( red / E172 , yellow / E172 ) .
Rx only PPI Issued August 11 , 2008 Antisoma Research Ltd [ MULTIMEDIA ]
