Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % .
Purpose : Antibacterial Purpose Antibacterial , Wet Wipes Use For hand santizing to decrease bacteria on the skin .
Recommeded for repeated use .
Do not push fingers through opening .
Warnings • keep out of reach of children and pets .
• Read the product label carefully before use .
• In case of contact with eyes , rinse immediately with plenty of water for several minutes .
• In case of ingestion , do not induce vomiting and consult a doctor immediately , taking the product container or label .
• If you have hypersensitivity to any of the components of the formula , do not use the product .
• Stop usage if skin irritation occurs and consult a doctor .
Keep wipes inside the original packaging .
Store unopened packages in a cool , dry place away from direct light inaccessible to small children .
• After use , dispose the wipes in the trash .
Do not flush in toilet .
• Always snap lid securely shut between uses to prevent moisture loss .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions 1 .
Remove the wipe from the center of the canister .
2 .
The next wipe will come out automatically .
3 .
Close the lid to keep the wipes moist .
Other information Keep containers tightly closed in a dry , cool and well - ventilated place .
Recommended storage temperature : 0 ℃ to 40 ℃ .
Kill 99 % of germs that may cause illness in just 5 minutes .
Inactive ingredients Aqua , Ethanol , Propylene Glycol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Polysorbate 20 , Phenoxyethanol , Parfum Package Label - Principal Display Panel 80 Wet Wipes NDC : 75662 - 081 - 80 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
