Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • • eczema • • psoriasis • • poison ivy , oak , sumac • • insect bites • • detergents • • jewelry • • seborrheic dermatitis • • soaps • • external genital and anal itching • • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • • for the treatment of diaper rash .
Ask a doctor .
• • for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Ask a doctor .
When using this product • • avoid contact with the eyes • • do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • • for external anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly .
• • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens • • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 2 years of age and older : • • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily children under 2 years of age : • • do not use .
Ask a doctor .
for external anal itching : • • adults : when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• • children under 12 years of age with external anal itching : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients aloe vera gel , ceteareth - 20 , cetearyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , isostearyl neopentanoate , methylparaben , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 g Tube Label CommUnityCare Federally Qualified Health Centers HYDROCORTISONE 1 % CR 28 g Date : Name : Dr . USE AS DIRECTED .
1 / 1 / 01 123456 HYDROCORTISONE 1 % CRM 30 G NDC 76413 - 339 - 28 Batch : 123456 Lot : 123456 Exp : 1 / 1 / 01 PERRIGO Federal law prohibits the transfer of this drug to any other person than the patient for whom prescribed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
