NDC : 51655 - 955 - 84 MFG : 45963 - 558 - 30 Valacyclovir 500 mg 14 tablets Rx only Lot # NW56230001 Exp Date : 07 / 2015 Each tablet contains : Valacyclovir hydrochloride , USP equivalent to valacyclovir 500 mg Dosage : see package insert Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , light - resistant container ( See USP ) Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Actavis Pharma Manufacturing Pvt , Ltd Plot No . 101 , 102 , 107 & 108 SIDCO Pharmaceutical Complex , Alathur , Kanchipuram Dist - 603 110 Tamilnadu India Distributed by : Actavis Inc . 60 Columbia Road , Bldg B , Morristown , NJ 07960 USA Lot # G01904A Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Medication Information PATIENT INFORMATION Valacyclovir ( val - a - SYE - kloe - veer ) Tablets , USP Rx only Read the Patient Information that comes with valacyclovir hydrochloride before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have questions .
What is Valacyclovir Hydrochloride ?
Valacyclovir hydrochloride is a prescription antiviral medicine .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride lowers the ability of herpes viruses to multiply in your body .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride is used in adults : to treat cold sores ( also called fever blisters or herpes labialis ) to treat shingles ( also called herpes zoster ) to treat or control genital herpes outbreaks in adults with normal immune systemsto control genital herpes outbreaks in adults infected with the human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) with CD4 + cell count greater than 100 cells / mm3with safer sex practices to lower the chances of spreading genital herpes to others .
Even with safer sex practices , it is still possible to spread genital herpes . Valacyclovir hydrochloride used daily with the following safer sex practices can lower the chances of passing genital herpes to your partner . Do not have sexual contact with your partner when you have any symptom or outbreak of genital herpes .
Use a condom made of latex or polyurethane whenever you have sexual contact .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride does not cure herpes infections ( cold sores , shingles , or genital herpes ) .
The efficacy of valacyclovir hydrochloride has not been studied in children who have not reached puberty .
Labeling describing use of valacyclovir hydrochloride in pediatric patients with chickenpox ( ages of 2 - ≤ 18 years ) is approved for GlaxoSmithKline ’ s Valtrex ® Caplets .
However , due to GlaxoSmithKline ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of that pediatric use is not approved for this valacyclovir hydrochloride tablet product .
What are cold sores , shingles , and genital herpes ?
Cold sores are caused by a herpes virus that may be spread by kissing or other physical contact with the infected area of the skin .
They are small , painful ulcers that you get in or around your mouth .
It is not known if valacyclovir hydrochloride can stop the spread of cold sores to others .
Shingles is caused by the same herpes virus that causes chickenpox .
It causes small , painful blisters that happen on your skin .
Shingles occurs in people who have already had chickenpox .
Shingles can be spread to people who have not had chickenpox or the chickenpox vaccine by contact with the infected areas of the skin .
It is not known if valacyclovir hydrochloride can stop the spread of shingles to others .
Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease .
It causes small , painful blisters on your genital area .
You can spread genital herpes to others , even when you have no symptoms .
If you are sexually active , you can still pass herpes to your partner , even if you are taking valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride , taken every day as prescribed and used with the following safer sex practices , can lower the chances of passing genital herpes to your partner .
Do not have sexual contact with your partner when you have any symptom or outbreak of genital herpes . Use a condom made of latex or polyurethane whenever you have sexual contact .
Ask your healthcare provider for more information about safer sex practices .
Labeling describing use of valacyclovir hydrochloride in pediatric patients with chickenpox ( ages of 2 - ≤ 18 years ) is approved for GlaxoSmithKline ’ s Valtrex ® Caplets .
However , due to GlaxoSmithKline ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of that pediatric use is not approved for this valacyclovir tablet product .
Who should not take Valacyclovir Hydrochloride ?
Do not take Valacyclovir Hydrochloride if you are allergic to any of its ingredients or to acyclovir .
The active ingredient is valacyclovir .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in valacyclovir tablets .
Before taking Valacyclovir Hydrochloride , tell your healthcare provider : About all your medical conditions , including : if you have had a bone marrow transplant or kidney transplant , or if you have advanced HIV disease or " AIDS " .
Patients with these conditions may have a higher chance for getting a blood disorder called thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura / hemolytic uremic syndrome ( TTP / HUS ) .
TTP / HUS can result in death . if you have kidney problems .
Patients with kidney problems may have a higher chance for getting side effects or more kidney problems with valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Your healthcare provider may give you a lower dose of valacyclovir hydrochloride . if you are 65 years of age or older .
Elderly patients have a higher chance of certain side effects .
Also , elderly patients are more likely to have kidney problems .
Your healthcare provider may give you a lower dose of valacyclovir hydrochloride . if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the risks and benefits of taking prescription drugs ( including valacyclovir hydrochloride ) during pregnancy . if you are breastfeeding .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride may pass into your milk and it may harm your baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking valacyclovir hydrochloride . about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride may affect other medicines , and other medicines may affect valacyclovir hydrochloride .
It is a good idea to keep a complete list of all the medicines you take .
Show this list to your healthcare provider and pharmacist any time you get a new medicine .
How should I take Valacyclovir Hydrochloride ?
Take valacyclovir hydrochloride exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Your dose of valacyclovir hydrochloride and length of treatment will depend on the type of herpes infection that you have and any other medical problems that you have .
Do not stop valacyclovir hydrochloride or change your treatment without talking to your healthcare provider . Valacyclovir hydrochloride can be taken with or without food . If you are taking valacyclovir hydrochloride to treat cold sores , chickenpox , shingles , or genital herpes , you should start treatment as soon as possible after your symptoms start .
Valacyclovir hydrochloride may not help you if you start treatment too late . If you miss a dose of valacyclovir hydrochloride , take it as soon as you remember and then take your next dose at its regular time .
However , if it is almost time for your next dose , do not take the missed dose .
Wait and take the next dose at the regular time . Do not take more than the prescribed number of valacyclovir tablets each day .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you take too much valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Labeling describing use of valacyclovir hydrochloride in pediatric patients with chickenpox ( ages of 2 - ≤ 18 years ) is approved for GlaxoSmithKline ’ s Valtrex ® Caplets .
However , due to GlaxoSmithKline ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of that pediatric use is not approved for this valacyclovir tablet product .
What are the possible side effects of Valacyclovir Hydrochloride ?
Kidney failure and nervous system problems are not common , but can be serious in some patients taking valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Nervous system problems include aggressive behavior , unsteady movement , shaky movements , confusion , speech problems , hallucinations ( seeing or hearing things that are really not there ) , seizures , and coma .
Kidney failure and nervous system problems have happened in patients who already have kidney disease and in elderly patients whose kidneys do not work well due to age .
Always tell your healthcare provider if you have kidney problems before taking valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Call your doctor right away if you get a nervous system problem while you are taking valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Common side effects of valacyclovir hydrochloride in adults include headache , nausea , stomach pain , vomiting , and dizziness .
Side effects in HIV - infected adults include headache , tiredness , and rash .
These side effects usually are mild and do not cause patients to stop taking valacyclovir hydrochloride .
Other less common side effects in adults include painful periods in women , joint pain , depression , low blood cell counts , and changes in tests that measure how well the liver and kidneys work .
The most common side effect seen in children < 18 years of age was headache .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
These are not all the side effects of valacyclovir hydrochloride .
For more information ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
How should I store Valacyclovir Tablets , USP ?
Store valacyclovir tablets at room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep valacyclovir hydrochloride in a tightly closed container . Do not keep medicine that is out of date or that you no longer need . Keep valacyclovir hydrochloride and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Labeling describing storage of oral suspension of valacyclovir hydrochloride is approved for GlaxoSmithKline ’ s Valtrex ® Caplets .
However , due to GlaxoSmithKline ’ s marketing exclusivity rights , a description of that storage information is not approved for this valacyclovir tablet product .
General information about Valacyclovir Hydrochloride Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use valacyclovir hydrochloride for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give valacyclovir hydrochloride to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about valacyclovir hydrochloride .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about valacyclovir hydrochloride that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Valacyclovir Tablets , USP ?
Active Ingredient : valacyclovir hydrochloride , USP Inactive Ingredients : FD & C Blue No . 2 , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , polyethene glycol , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , and titanium dioxide .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Online drug information For the complete manufacturer ' s drug information please visit the FDA site : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 9d6b1146 - e7c6 - 40d5 - abe5 - 46321f4b9b1a
