DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient Purpose Potassium Nitrate 5 % Antihypersensitivity Sodium Monofluorophosphate 0 . 76 % .... Anticaries Purpose : Antihypersensitivity and Anticaries Uses : Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth due to cold , heat acids , sweets , or contact Aids in the prevention of dental cavities .
Do not swallow .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
DIRECTIONS Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply Level Toothpaste on to a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children under 6 years of age Instruct in good brushing and rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) .
Use a pea - sized amount .
Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a dentist or doctor Inactive Ingredients Dicalcium Phosphate Dihydrate , Purified WAter , Xylitol , Glycerin , Hydrated Silica , Sorbitol , Carboxy Methyl Cellulose , Sodium Lauryl sulfate , Flavor , Tetrasodium Pyrophosphate , Sodium Bicarbonate , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Saccharin Xylitol Natural Enamel protection True protection with fluoride Advanced pain - blocking technology Soothing herbal mint enamel guard with pH stabilizers Distributed by level oral care , LLC Jacksonville , FL 32246 www . leveloralcare . com Product of MY Level Herbal Mint Five Sensitive Formula Anticavity Toothpaste perfect your smile NET WT .
5 . 0 OZ ( 141 . 7 G ) Xylitol natural enamel protection True protection with fluoride Advanced pain - blocking technology Soothing herbal mint Enamel Guard with pH stabilizers ACTIVE INGREDIENT : Potassium nitrate 5 % Sodium monofluorophosphate 0 . 76 % USES : Builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth due to cold heat acids , sweets or contact .
Aids in the prevention of dental cavities DIRECTIONS : Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply Level Toothpaste onto a soft bristle toothbrush .
Brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal or at least twice a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Instruct children under 6 years of age in good brushing and rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) .
Use a pea - sized amount .
supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision .
Children under 2 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor WARNINGS Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
Do not swallow .
if more than used from brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Distributed by : Level Oral Care , LLC Jacksonville , FL 32246 www . leveloralcare . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
