Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Alcohol Wet Wipes Use For cleaning and reducing germs and bacteria that could cause disease when soap & water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from and do not store near heat or open flame . Do not use around cuts or broken skin , around eyes , or on children under 2 months of age .
May cause irritation to sensitive skin , discontinue use if irritation or rash appears ; check ingredient list before using if you have skin allergies .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of eye contact , flush with plenty of water , In case of skin irritation .
wash off skin immediately with plenty of water , using soap if available .
Seek medical attention immediately if irritation persists .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Remove top , open bag , , lift pop top , feed wipe through opening , and gently pull to remove wipe .
Wipe hands to remove germs and becteria .
After use , close top to keep wipes moist .
Do not flush , please discard wipe in trash after use .
Please recycle canister where possible .
Other information Shelf life 2 years if unopened sealed container .
Store in cool , dry place .
Warm temperatures may reduce shelf life or dry out wipes .
May discolor some fabrics and wood surface .
Inactive ingredients Water , Aloe vera , Citrus Scent .
SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION Premium Soft & Strong 75 % Alcohol Wipes Free of Harsh Chemicals , Fast - Acting , Moisturizing TOUGH ON GERMS , SAFELY CLEANS .
KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS GERM WIPES Alcohol Wipes PROFESSIONAL RESIDENTIAL 750 Wipes FRESH CITRUS Great For Use In : Restaurants , Stores & Shopping , Kitchens , Schools & Dorms , Gyms , Cars & Travel , Healthcare , Offices .
High - Quality 75 % Alcohol Sanitizing Wipes Formulated to be free of harsh chemicals , yet tough on germs !
Keep safe by wiping away germs and bacteria that could cause disease from hands during and after being in stores , restaurants , offices , classrooms , gyms , kitchens , dorms , during travel , and more .
Use to clean hands before eating or after contact with germs / sticky foods and for everyday cleaning , especially when soap & water are not available .
Contains moisturizing Aloe Vera .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 160 Wipes NDC : 75662 - 160 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
