For External Use DESCRIPTION CLEOCIN T Topical Solution and CLEOCIN T Topical Lotion contain clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter .
CLEOCIN T Topical Gel contains clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram .
Each CLEOCIN T Topical Solution pledget applicator contains approximately 1 mL of topical solution .
Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The solution contains isopropyl alcohol 50 % v / v , propylene glycol , and water .
The gel contains allantoin , carbomer 934 P , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , and purified water .
The lotion contains cetostearyl alcohol ( 2 . 5 % ) ; glycerin ; glyceryl stearate SE ( with potassium monostearate ) ; isostearyl alcohol ( 2 . 5 % ) ; methylparaben ( 0 . 3 % ) ; sodium lauroyl sarcosinate ; stearic acid ; and purified water .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of clindamycin in treating acne vulgaris is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics Following multiple topical applications of clindamycin phosphate at a concentration equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per mL in an isopropyl alcohol and water solution , very low levels of clindamycin are present in the serum ( 0 – 3 ng / mL ) and less than 0 . 2 % of the dose is recovered in urine as clindamycin .
Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Microbiology Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is bacteriostatic .
Antimicrobial Activity Clindamycin is active in vitro against most isolates of Propionibacterium acnes ; however , the clinical significance is unknown .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of specific bases of the 23 S ribosomal RNA .
Cross - resistance between clindamycin and lincomycin is complete .
Because the binding sites for these antibacterial drugs overlap , cross resistance is sometimes observed among lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramin B . Macrolide - inducible resistance to clindamycin occurs in some isolates of macrolide - resistant bacteria .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE CLEOCIN T Topical Solution , CLEOCIN T Topical Gel and CLEOCIN T Topical Lotion are indicated in the treatment of acne vulgaris .
In view of the potential for diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis , the physician should consider whether other agents are more appropriate ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS CLEOCIN T Topical Solution , CLEOCIN T Topical Gel and CLEOCIN T Topical Lotion are contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin , a history of regional enteritis or ulcerative colitis , or a history of antibiotic - associated colitis .
WARNINGS Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may result in patient death .
Use of the topical formulation of clindamycin results in absorption of the antibiotic from the skin surface .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of topical and systemic clindamycin .
Studies indicate a toxin ( s ) produced by clostridia is one primary cause of antibiotic - associated colitis .
The colitis is usually characterized by severe persistent diarrhea and severe abdominal cramps and may be associated with the passage of blood and mucus .
Endoscopic examination may reveal pseudomembranous colitis .
Stool culture for Clostridium difficile and stool assay for C . difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically .
When significant diarrhea occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Large bowel endoscopy should be considered to establish a definitive diagnosis in cases of severe diarrhea .
Antiperistaltic agents such as opiates and diphenoxylate with atropine may prolong and / or worsen the condition .
Vancomycin has been found to be effective in the treatment of antibiotic - associated pseudomembranous colitis produced by Clostridium difficile .
The usual adult dosage is 500 milligrams to 2 grams of vancomycin orally per day in three to four divided doses administered for 7 to 10 days .
Cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind vancomycin in vitro .
If both a resin and vancomycin are to be administered concurrently , it may be advisable to separate the time of administration of each drug .
Diarrhea , colitis , and pseudomembranous colitis have been observed to begin up to several weeks following cessation of oral and parenteral therapy with clindamycin .
PRECAUTIONS General CLEOCIN T Topical Solution contains an alcohol base which will cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with sensitive surfaces ( eye , abraded skin , mucous membranes ) , bathe with copious amounts of cool tap water .
The solution has an unpleasant taste and caution should be exercised when applying medication around the mouth .
CLEOCIN T should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
There are no adequate studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Clindamycin should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether clindamycin is excreted in breast milk following use of CLEOCIN T . However , orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations If used during lactation and CLEOCIN T is applied to the chest , care should be taken to avoid accidental ingestion by the infant .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies for CLEOCIN T did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In 18 clinical studies of various formulations of CLEOCIN T using placebo vehicle and / or active comparator drugs as controls , patients experienced a number of treatment emergent adverse dermatologic events [ see table below ] .
Number of Patients Reporting EventsTreatment Emergent Adverse Event Solution n = 553 ( % ) Gel n = 148 ( % ) Lotion n = 160 ( % ) # not recorded Burning 62 ( 11 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Itching 36 ( 7 ) 15 ( 10 ) 17 ( 11 ) Burning / Itching 60 ( 11 ) # ( – ) # ( – ) Dryness 105 ( 19 ) 34 ( 23 ) 29 ( 18 ) Erythema 86 ( 16 ) 10 ( 7 ) 22 ( 14 ) Oiliness / Oily Skin 8 ( 1 ) 26 ( 18 ) 12 [ 1 ] ( 10 ) Peeling 61 ( 11 ) # ( – ) 11 ( 7 ) [ 1 ] of 126 subjects Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally .
Cases of diarrhea , bloody diarrhea and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported as adverse reactions in patients treated with oral and parenteral formulations of clindamycin and rarely with topical clindamycin ( see WARNINGS ) .
Abdominal pain , gastrointestinal disturbances , gram - negative folliculitis , eye pain and contact dermatitis have also been reported in association with the use of topical formulations of clindamycin .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied CLEOCIN T can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see WARNINGS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film of CLEOCIN T Topical Solution , CLEOCIN T Topical Lotion , CLEOCIN T Topical Gel , or use a CLEOCIN T Topical Solution pledget for the application of CLEOCIN T twice daily to affected area .
More than one pledget may be used .
Each pledget should be used only once and then be discarded .
Lotion : Shake well immediately before using .
Pledget : Remove pledget from foil just before use .
Do not use if the seal is broken .
Discard after single use .
Keep all liquid dosage forms in containers tightly closed .
HOW SUPPLIED CLEOCIN T Topical Solution containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter is available in the following sizes : 30 mL applicator bottle — NDC 0009 - 3116 - 01 60 mL applicator bottle — NDC 0009 - 3116 - 02 Carton of 60 single - use pledget applicators — NDC 0009 - 3116 - 14 CLEOCIN T Topical Gel containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per gram is available in the following sizes : 60 gram tube — NDC 0009 - 3331 - 01 30 gram tube — NDC 0009 - 3331 - 02 CLEOCIN T Topical Lotion containing clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg clindamycin per milliliter is available in the following size : 60 mL plastic squeeze bottle — NDC 0009 - 3329 - 01 Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from freezing .
Rx only This product ' s label may have been updated .
For current full prescribing information , please visit www . pfizer . com .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0042 - 10 . 0 Revised 12 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 3116 - 01 Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical solution , USP 1 % * Solution for topical use only 30 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Carton Pfizer NDC 0009 - 3116 - 01 Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical solution , USP 1 % * Solution for topical use only 30 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Pledget Packet Pfizer NDC 0009 - 3116 - 14 Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical solution , USP 1 % * Pledget for topical use only 1 Pledget Distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co Division of Pfizer Inc , NY , NY 10017 MADE IN CHINA Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 Pledget Packet Carton NDC 0009 - 3116 - 14 Pfizer Cleocin T ® 1 % * clindamycin phosphate topical solution , USP Pledget for topical use only 60 Pledgets Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Label Pfizer NDC 0009 - 3329 - 01 Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical lotion 1 % * For topical use only 60 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mL Bottle Carton Pfizer NDC 0009 - 3329 - 01 Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical lotion 1 % * For topical use only 60 mL Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 gram Tube Label NDC 0009 - 3331 - 01 60 gram Rx only Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical gel For topical use only 1 % * Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from freezing .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
See crimp of tube for Expiration Date and Lot Number .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
* Each gram contains clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg ( 1 % ) of clindamycin .
Also contains allantoin , carbomer 934 P , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , and purified water .
Pfizer Distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co Division of Pfizer Inc , NY , NY 10017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 gram Tube Carton NDC 0009 - 3331 - 01 Pfizer Cleocin T ® 1 % * clindamycin phosphate topical gel For topical use only 60 gram Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 gram Tube Label NDC 0009 - 3331 - 02 30 gram Rx only Cleocin T ® clindamycin phosphate topical gel For topical use only 1 % * Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Protect from freezing .
For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
See crimp of tube for Expiration Date and Lot Number .
DOSAGE AND USE : See accompanying prescribing information .
* Each gram contains clindamycin phosphate equivalent to 10 mg ( 1 % ) of clindamycin .
Also contains allantoin , carbomer 934 P , methylparaben , polyethylene glycol 400 , propylene glycol , sodium hydroxide , and purified water .
Pfizer Distributed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Co Division of Pfizer Inc , NY , NY 10017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 gram Tube Carton NDC 0009 - 3331 - 02 Pfizer Cleocin T ® 1 % * clindamycin phosphate topical gel For topical use only 30 gram Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
