Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each capsule ) Omeprazole , USP … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … . 20 mg Sodium Bicarbonate , USP … … … … … … … … … … .... 1100 mg Purpose Omeprazole , USP .............................................................................
Acid reducer Sodium Bicarbonate , USP … … … Allows absorption of this omeprazole product Use • treats frequent heartburn ( occurs 2 or more days a week ) • not intended for immediate relief of heartburn .
This drug may take 1 to 4 days for full effect .
Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to omeprazole Do not use if you have : • trouble or pain swallowing food • vomiting with blood • bloody or black stools These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • a sodium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • you need to take more than 1 course of treatment every 4 months • you get diarrhea • you develop a rash or joint pain If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Directions • for adults 18 years of age and older • this product is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days • it may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours 14 Day Course of Treatment • swallow 1 capsule with a glass of water at least 1 hour before eating in the morning • take every day for 14 days • do not take more than 1 capsule a day • do not chew or crush the capsule • do not open capsule and sprinkle on food • do not use for more than 14 days unless directed by your doctor Repeated 14 Day Courses ( if needed ) • you may repeat a 14 day course every 4 months • do not take for more than 14 days or more often than every 4 months unless directed by a doctor • children under 18 years of age : ask a doctor .
Heartburn in children may sometimes be caused by a serious condition .
Other information • each capsule contains : sodium 301 . 34 mg • read the directions , warnings and accompanying label information before use • store at 20 ○ to 25 ○ C ( 68 ○ to 77 ○ F ) • tamper - evident : do not use if the blue band around the capsule is missing or broken .
Do not use if foil inner seal imprinted with " Sealed for your protection " is missing , open or broken .
• keep product out of high heat and humidity • protect product from moisture Inactive ingredient croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 1 , gelatin , magnesium stearate , polysorbate 80 , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
The capsule shell is printed with black pharmaceutical ink which contains following ingredients : black iron oxide , butyl alcohol , dehydrated alcohol , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , propylene glycol , purified water , shellac and strong ammonia solution .
Questions or comments ?
Serious side effects associated with use of this drug product may be reported to this number : 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or visit www . zydususa . com Hours of operation : 9 : 00 am to 5 : 00 pm EST M - F .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsule Works For Your Frequent Heartburn Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsule works differently from other OTC heartburn products , such as antacids and other acid reducers .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsule stops acid production at the source – the acid pump that produces stomach acid .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsule is to be used once a day ( every 24 hours ) , every day for 14 days .
What to Expect When Using Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsule Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsule is a different type of medicine from antacids and other acid reducers .
Omeprazole and sodium bicarbonate capsule may take 1 to 4 days for full effect , although some people get complete relief of symptoms within 24 hours .
Make sure you take the entire 14 days of dosing to treat your frequent heartburn .
Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over soon after eating .
• Do not eat late at night or just before bedtime .
• Certain foods or drinks are more likely to cause heartburn , such as rich , spicy , fatty and fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol and even some fruits and vegetables .
• Eat slowly and do not eat big meals .
• If you are overweight , lose weight .
• If you smoke , quit smoking .
• Raise the head of your bed .
• Wear loose - fitting clothing around your stomach .
How are Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules Sold Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules , 20 mg / 1100 mg are white to off - white fine powder filled in hard gelatin capsule shells of size ' 00 ' having an opaque white cap and an opaque white body printed with ' 503 ' on body in black ink and a blue tamper evident band and are available as follows : NDC 68382 - 503 - 67 in one HDPE bottle of 14 capsules NDC 68382 - 503 - 17 in two HDPE bottles of 28 capsules ( one bottle contains 14 capsules ) NDC 68382 - 503 - 04 in three HDPE bottles of 42 capsules ( one bottle contains 14 capsules ) Do not use for more than 14 days in a row unless directed by your doctor .
For the 28 count ( two 14 day courses ) and the 42 count ( three 14 day courses ) , you may repeat a 14 day course every 4 months .
Manufactured by : Cadila Healthcare Ltd .
Ahmedabad , India Rev . : 02 / 19 Carton and container labels NDC 70771 - 1337 - 7 Omeprazole and Sodium Bicarbonate Capsules , 20 mg / 1100 mg 14 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
