Rx only DESCRIPTION : Orphenadrine citrate is the citrate salt of orphenadrine ( ( ± ) - N , N - Dimethyl - 2 - [ ( o - methyl - a - phenylbenzyl ) oxy ] ethylamine citrate ( 1 : 1 ) ) with a molecular weight of 461 . 50 ; empirical formula C18H23NO • C6H8O7 .
The structural formula of orphenadrine citrate is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It occurs as a white , crystalline powder having a bitter taste .
It is practically odorless ; sparingly soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol .
Orphenadrine citrate injection contains 60 mg of orphenadrine citrate in aqueous solution in each vial .
Orphenadrine citrate injection also contains : sodium chloride USP 5 . 8 mg ; sodium metabisulfite NF , 2 . 0 mg ; sodium hydroxide NF , to adjust pH ( 5 . 0 to 6 . 0 ) ; and water for injection USP , q . s . to 2 mL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : The mode of therapeutic action has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense muscles in man .
Orphenadrine citrate also possesses anti - cholinergic actions .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Orphenadrine citrate injection is indicated as an adjunct to rest , physical therapy , and other measures for the relief of discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
The mode of action of the drug has not been clearly identified , but may be related to its analgesic properties .
Orphenadrine citrate does not directly relax tense skeletal muscles in man .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Contraindicated in patients with glaucoma , pyloric or duodenal obstruction , stenosing peptic ulcers , prostatic hypertrophy or obstruction of the bladder neck , cardio - spasm ( megaesophagus ) and myasthenia gravis .
Contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated a previous hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS : Some patients may experience transient episodes of light - headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Orphenadrine citrate may impair the ability of the patient to engage in potentially hazardous activities such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle ; ambulatory patients should therefore be cautioned accordingly .
Orphenadrine citrate injection contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions including anaphylactic symptoms and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in certain susceptible people .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than nonasthmatic people .
PRECAUTIONS : Confusion , anxiety and tremors have been reported in few patients receiving propoxyphene and orphenadrine concomitantly .
As these symptoms may be simply due to an additive effect , reduction of dosage and / or discontinuation of one or both agents is recommended in such cases .
Orphenadrine citrate should be used with caution in patients with tachycardia , cardiac decompensation , coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias .
Safety of continuous long - term therapy with orphenadrine has not been established .
Therefore , if orphenadrine is prescribed for prolonged use , periodic monitoring of blood , urine and liver function values is recommended .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Safe use of orphenadrine has not been established with respect to adverse effects upon fetal development .
Therefore , orphenadrine should be used in women of childbearing potential and particularly during early pregnancy only when in the judgment of the physician the potential benefits outweigh the possible hazards .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established ; therefore , this drug is not recommended for use in the pediatric age group .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions of orphenadrine are mainly due to the mild anti - cholinergic action of orphenadrine , and are usually associated with higher dosage .
Dryness of the mouth is usually the first adverse effect to appear .
When the daily dose is increased , possible adverse effects include : tachycardia , palpitation , urinary hesitancy or retention , blurred vision , dilatation of pupils , increased ocular tension , weakness , nausea , vomiting , headache , dizziness , constipation , drowsiness , hypersensitivity reactions , pruritus , hallucinations , agitation , tremor , gastric irritation , and rarely urticaria and other dermatoses .
Infrequently , an elderly patient may experience some degree of mental confusion .
These adverse reactions can usually be eliminated by reduction in dosage .
Very rare cases of aplastic anemia associated with the use of orphenadrine tablets have been reported .
No causal relationship has been established .
Rare instances of anaphylactic reaction have been reported associated with the intramuscular injection of orphenadrine citrate injection .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE : Orphenadrine has been chronically abused for its euphoric effects .
The mood elevating effects may occur at therapeutic doses of orphenadrine .
OVERDOSAGE : Orphenadrine is toxic when overdosed and typically induces anticholinergic effects .
In a review of orphenadrine toxicity , the minimum lethal dose was found to be 2 to 3 grams for adults ; however , the range of toxicity is variable and unpredictable .
Treatment for orphenadrine overdose is evacuation of stomach contents ( when necessary ) , charcoal at repeated doses , intensive monitoring , and appropriate supportive treatment of any emergent anticholinergic effects .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : INJECTION : Adults - One 2 mL vial ( 60 mg ) intravenously or intramuscularly ; may be repeated every 12 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED : Product : 50090 - 2438 NDC : 50090 - 2438 - 0 2 mL in a VIAL / 10 in a CARTON Orphenadrine Citrate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
