ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract 1 % Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract1 % Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Extract 1 % Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Water , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Flower Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Chamomilla Recutita ( Matricaria ) Flower Extract , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Rhus Semialata Extract , Terminalia Chebula Fruit Extract , Morus Alba Bark Extract , Zanthoxylum Piperitum Fruit Extract , Pulsatilla Koreana Extract , Usnea Barbata ( Lichen ) Extract , Butylene Glycol , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Actinidia Arguta Fruit Extract , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Seed Extract , Chamaecyparis Obtusa Water , Flavor PURPOSE Purpose : SANITIZER WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
Do not use the product on the following areas : Eyes , mouth , and damaged skin ( irritation may occur ) 2 .
If you experience any of the following symptoms , stop using the product immediately and consult a doctor or pharmacist .
1 ) Hypersensitivity symptoms ( e . g . rash , erythema , itching and edema ) 2 ) Skin irritation symptoms 3 .
Other precautions 1 ) For external use only .
( Do not swallow .
If swallowed , vomit and consult a doctor or pharmacist ) 2 ) Avoid contact with eyes .
If in contact , wash with clean water and consult a doctor or pharmacist .
3 ) Do not use sealed bandages , cast bandages or packs as they may cause irritation .
4 ) Do not use this medicine for anal or vaginal areas or hot packs as it may cause irritation .
5 ) Use only for the intended purpose .
4 .
Precautions for storage 1 ) Keep away from direct sunlight and do not expose the product to heating devices or flame .
2 ) Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed .
3 ) After use , close the lid completely to prevent the product from drying or foreign objects from getting inside the container .
4 ) Storing the product in a different container may cause accidents or deterioration of quality .
Therefore , keep the product in its original container .
Dust or foreign substances may get on the product while using it .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children and go to the hospital immediately if swallowed .
Uses Uses : Disinfection of hands and skin Directions Directions ( for Gel type ) Take an appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly to dry .
Directions ( for Spray type ) Spray the appropriate amount on your hands and rub thoroughly .
PACKAGE LABEL - ZERO Hand Sanitizer 60 mL Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - ZERO Hand Sanitizer 300 mL Gel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - ZERO Hand Sanitizer 300 mL Spray [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
