Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethanol Alcohol 80 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Inactive Ingredients Purified water USP 18 . 425 % , Glycerin ( glycerol ) 1 . 45 % , Hydrogen peroxide 0 . 125 % - ingredients shown refer to liquid portion only , not to wipe fabric material Use ( s ) Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
- Can be used on hands , arms and legs .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Use in a well - ventilated area and avoid near sources of ignltion .
Do Not Use • on children less than 2 months of age - supervise use by children • on open skin wounds • keep out of reach of children and pets • for personal hygiene or as a make - up removing wipe • as a baby wipe or diaper wipe When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness or rash occurs .
for over 72 hours .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If eaten , swallowed or chewed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Open box and zipped plastic pouch to thread first wipe ( from center of roll ) through the hole on top .
Do n't remove all the wipes .
• Zip the pouch closed around the wipe .
then re - close the box .
• Gently pull one wipe from the dispenser , pulling at an angle and in a down ward motion .
• Supervise children under 10 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
• Let hands completely dry before touching a stove or bbq or coming in close contact with any other open flame .
• For best results , clean excessively dirty areas before using wipes .
• Do Not fluh wipes .
we recommended that you dispose of them in trash .
Flushing wipes can cause damage to plumbing .
Other Information • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
