This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use to decrease bacteria on the skin , only when water is not available .
Warnings • Flammable .
Keep away from fire and flame .
• For external use only .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product .
Do not get into eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
May discolor some fabrics .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation or redness develop • Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed .
get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
Other information • Store below 105 ℉ Inactive ingredients Water , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Glycerol Package Label - Principal Display Panel 59 . 1 mL in 1 Bottle NDC : 75556 - 591 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
