Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % .
Purpose : Antimicrobial Purpose antimicrobial , Wet Wipes Use For cleaning and reducing germs and bacteria on hand that could cause diseases when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
May cause irritation on sensitive skin , discontinue use if irritation or rash appears . Avoid direct contact with eyes and broken skin .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of eye contact , flush with plenty of water .
In case of skin irritation , wash off skin immediatelly with plenty of water , using soap if available .
Seek medical attention if irritation persists . Call poison control immediately if swallowed .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Remove top , open bag , lift pop top , feed wipe through opening , and gently pull to remove wipe .
Gently wipe hands to remove germs and becteria .
After use , close top to keep wipes moist .
Do not flush , please discard wipe in trash after use .
Please recycle canister where possible .
Other information Shelf life 2 years if unopened sealed container .
Store in cool , dry place .
High temperatures may reduce shelf life or dry out wipes .
May discolor some fabrics and wood surface .
Inactive ingredients Purified water , Didecyldimonium Chloride , Propylene Glycol , Glycerin , Ethylhexyl Glycerin , Phenoxyethanol , Fragrance , Aloe Vera SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION Premium Soft & Strong Antibacterial Wet Wipes Gentle on Hands , Tough on Germs !
KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS WITH MOISTURIZING ALOE VERA 750 Wet Wipes FRESH LEMON Great For Use In : Restaurants , Stores & Shopping , Kitchens , Schools & Dorms , Gyms , Cars & Travel , Healthcare , Offices .
High - Quality Antibacterial Wet Wipes Formulated to be gentle on skin , tough on germs !
Keep safe by wiping away germs and bacteria that could cause disease from hands during and after being in stores , restaurants , offices , classrooms , gyms , kitchens , dorms , during travel , and more .
Use to clean hands before eating or after contact with germs / sticky foods and for everyday cleaning , especially when soap & water are not available .
Contains moisturizing Aloe Vera .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 750 Wet Wipes NDC : 75662 - 751 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
