Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride . 13 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Antibacterial Wet Hand Wipes Use Antibacterial wet wipes helps reduce bacteria ( organisms ) .
Effective on bacterias : Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 6538 , Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 15442 , Enterococcus hirae ATCC 10541 , Escherichia coli ATCC 10536 .
Use only on hands and away from eyes .
Warnings Keep away from children and direct sunlight .
Children should not use this product without an adult supervision .
For external use only .
In case of poisoning , call the National Toxitation Information Center .
Avoid contact with eyes .
This product consists of nonwoven fabric ( solid ) impregnated with a flammable liquid solution that has an estimated flashpoint of approximately 120 degrees fahrenheit ; keep away from heat , sparks , open flames , and hot surfaces .
Do not smoke near this product or while using .
Keep container tightly closed when not in use .
Do Not Use Do not use if allergic to any of its ingredients .
Do not use near eyes .
Consult a doctor before use if pregnant , breastfeeding , have sensitive skin , or are under the age of 12 .
Do not buy opened and / or damaged products .
When Using In case of inhaling : If you feel uncomfortable get some fresh air .
In case of skin Irritation : Occurs stop using the wipes immediately and wash the affected area with water and soap for at least 15 minutes .
People with sensitive skin , pregnant women , breastfeeding women and children under the age of 12 should consult a doctor / pharmacist before using the product .
Seek for medical advice if necessary .
In case of contact with eyes : If you are wearing contact lenses , remove them immediately .
Rince your eyes with plenty of clean water .
In case of swallowing : Call your local Toxication Center and get medical help .
Stop Using Stop use if rednedd or irritation occurs and persists for longer than 48 hours and contact a healthcare professional .
Keep away from children .
Children should not use this product without adult supervision .
Directions Provides practical cleaning without need of water and soap .
Used for hand cleaning .
Open the adhesive label and pick up a wipe .
Gently wipe your hands with antibacterial wipe .
No rinsing required .
Other Information Do not ingest the product internally .
Store in a cool , dry place .
Store away from oxidizing agents and food .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua , Parfum , C12 - 15 Pareth - 12 , Glycerin , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , Tetrasodium EDTA , Piroctone Olamine , Tocopheryl Acetate , Panthenol , Citric Acid Indications and Usage ; Dosage and Administration Indications and Usage section was added Dosage and Administration section was added Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
