Active ingredient Fluticasone propionate ( glucocorticoid ) 50 mcg ( in each spray ) Purpose Allergy symptom reliever Keep Out of Reach of Children Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms of hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : ■ nasal congestion ■ runny nose ■ sneezing ■ itchy nose ■ itchy , watery eyes Warnings Only for use in the nose .
Do not spray into your eyes or mouth .
Do Not Use ■ in children under 4 years of age ■ to treat asthma ■ if you have an injury or surgery to your nose that is not fully healed ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of the ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have or had glaucoma or cataracts Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking ■ medicine for HIV infection ( such as ritonavir ) ■ a steroid medicine for asthma , allergies or skin rash ■ ketoconazole pills ( medicine for fungal infection ) When using this product ■ the growth rate of some children may be slower ■ stinging or sneezing may occur for a few seconds right after use ■ do not share this bottle with anyone else as this may spread germs ■ remember to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including this one Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ you have , or come into contact with someone who has , chicken pox , measles or tuberculosis ■ your symptoms do not get better within 7 days of starting use or you get new symptoms such as severe facial pain or thick nasal discharge .
You may have something more than allergies , such as an infection .
■ you get a constant whistling sound from your nose .
This may be a sign of damage inside your nose .
■ you get an allergic reaction to this product .
Seek medical help right away .
■ you get new changes to your vision that develop after starting this product ■ you have severe or frequent nosebleeds Pregnancy or Breast Feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep Out of Reach of Children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ read the Quick Start Guide for how to : ■ prime the bottle ■ use the spray ■ clean the spray nozzle ■ shake gently before each use ■ use this product only once a day ■ do not use more than directed ADULTS AND CHILDREN 12 YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER ■ Week 1 – use 2 sprays in each nostril once daily ■ Week 2 through 6 months – use 1 or 2 sprays in each nostril once daily , as needed to treat your symptoms ■ After 6 months of daily use – ask your doctor if you can keep using CHILDREN 4 TO 11 YEARS OF AGE ■ the growth rate of some children may be slower while using this product .
Children should use for the shortest amount of time necessary to achieve symptom relief .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor if your child needs to use the spray for longer than two months a year .
■ an adult should supervise use ■ use 1 spray in each nostril once daily CHILDREN UNDER 4 YEARS OF AGE ■ do not use Other information ■ TAMPER EVIDENT : Do not use if plastic sleeve is torn or broken .
Under the cap and nozzle , each bottle has an aluminum seal around bottle neck .
Do not use if any of these features are torn or damaged .
■ you may start to feel relief the first day and full effect after several days of regular , once - a - day use ■ store between 4 ° and 30 ° C ( 39 ° and 86 ° F ) ■ keep the label and enclosed materials .
They contain important additional information .
Inactive Ingredients benzalkonium chloride , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , dextrose , microcrystalline cellulose , phenylethyl alcohol , polysorbate 80 , and purified water Questions or comments Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 262 - 9010 weekdays ( 9 : 00 am - 5 : 00 pm ) What problems can Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray help with ?
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray helps relieve a broad range of uncomfortable symptoms like congestion , runny nose , sneezing , itchy nose and itchy eyes .
These symptoms can be triggered by allergens like pollen , mold , dust and pet dander .
Manufactured by : Hi - Tech Pharmacal Co . , Inc .
Amityville , NY 11701 Rev . 968 : 00 09 / 17 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] AKORN * Compare to the active ingredient in Flonase ® NDC 50383 - 968 - 16 Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray ( Glucocorticoid ) , 50 mcg Per Spray Allergy Symptom Reliever Nasal Spray 24 Hour Relief of : ■ Itchy , Watery Eyes ■ Nasal Congestion ■ Runny Nose ■ Itchy Nose ■ Sneezing NEW : FULL PRESCRIPTION STRENGTH NON DROWSY 24 HOUR RELIEF 120 METERED SPRAYS 0 . 54 fl oz ( 15 . 8 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
