Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Homosalate 10 . 0 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Flammable Do not use near heat , flame or while smoking Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep away from face to avoid breathing it .
Contents under pressure do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at tempertures above 120 F Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Ascorbyl Palmitate , Bisabolol , Camellia Oleifera ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Glycerin , Polyester - 8 , Porphyra Umbilicalis Extract , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Tetrahexyldecyl Ascorbate , Tocopheryl Acetate , VA / Butyl Maleate / Isobornyl Acrylate Copolymer , Water Purpose Sunscreen Directions • Shake well before use • with your eyes completly closed mist face evenly .
holding bottle 10 - 12 inches away from face .
Do not breathe mist in .
Allow to fully dry .
• Apply liberally 15 minutes beore sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time ine the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF valvue of 15 or higher and other sun protecion measures including : • limit tim ein the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sunlight .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 320 - 2381 Soleil Toujours Extreme face + scalp Sunscreen mist spf 50 Broad spectrum [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
