ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( in each 1 . 25 mL ) Ibuprofen 50 mg ( NSAID ) * * nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug PURPOSE Pain reliever / fever reducer USE ( S ) temporarily : • reduces fever • relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold , flu , sore throat , headaches and toothaches WARNINGS Allergy alert : Ibuprofen may cause a severe allergic reaction , especially in people allergic to aspirin .
Symptoms may include : • hives • facial swelling • asthma ( wheezing ) • shock • skin reddening • rash • blisters If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains an NSAID , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you child : • has had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems • takes a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug • takes other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) • takes more or for a longer time than directed Heart attack and stroke warning : NSAIDs , except aspirin , increase the risk of heart attack , heart failure and stroke .
These can be fatal .
The risk is higher if you use more than directed or for longer than directed .
Sore throat warning : Severe or persistent sore throat or sore throat accompanied by high fever , headache , nausea , and vomiting may be serious .
Consult doctor promptly .
Do not use more than 2 days or administer to children under 3 years of age unless directed by doctor .
DO NOT USE • if the child has ever had an allergic reaction to ibuprofen or any other pain reliever / fever reducer • right before or after heart surgery ASK A DOCTOR BEFORE USE IF • stomach bleeding warning applies to your child • child has a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn • child has problems or serious side effects from taking pain relievers or fever reducers • child has not been drinking fluids • child has lost a lot of fluid due to vomiting or diarrhea • child has high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , kidney disease or had a stroke • child has asthma • child is taking a diuretic ASK A DOCTOR OR PHARMACIST BEFORE USE IF THE CHILD IS • under a doctor ' s care for any serious condition • taking any other drug WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT • take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs STOP USE AND ASK DOCTOR IF • child experiences any of the following signs of stomach bleeding : • feels faint • vomits blood • has bloody or black stools • has stomach pain that does not get better • child has symptoms of heart problems or stroke : • chest pain • trouble breathing • weakness in one part or side of the body • slurred speech • leg swelling • the child does not get any relief within first day ( 24 hours ) of treatment • fever or pain gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present in the painful area • any new symptoms appear KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) DIRECTIONS • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • do not give more than directed • shake well before using • find right dose on chart below .
If possible , use weight to dose ; otherwise use age .
• mL = milliliter • measure with dosing device provided .
Do not use any other dosing device .
• dispense liquid slowly into the child ' s mouth , toward the inner cheek • if needed , repeat dose every 6 - 8 hours • do not use more than 4 times a day Dosing Chart WEIGHT ( lb ) AGE ( mos ) DOSE ( mL ) under 6 mos ask a doctor 12 - 17 lbs 6 - 11 mos 1 . 25 mL 18 - 23 lbs 12 - 23 years 1 . 875 mL OTHER INFORMATION • store between 20 - 25 oC ( 68 - 77 oF ) • do not use if carton is opened or if printed neckband is imprinted with " SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION " and " USE WITH ENCLOSED DOSING DEVICE ONLY " is broken or missing .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS anhydrous citric acid , flavors , glycerin , polysorbate 80 , pregelatinized starch , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , sucrose , xanthan gum QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ?
call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL See New Warnings NDC 49035 - 635 - 09 equate ™ Compare to Concentrated Motrin ® Infants ' Drops active ingredient * infants * Dye - Free Concentrated Infants ' Drops IBUPROFEN Oral Suspension 50 mg per 1 . 25 mL For Ages 6 Mos .
to 23 Mos .
Pain Reliever / Fever Reducer ( NSAID ) Lasts up to 8 Hours Berry Flavor 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
