This is an alcohol wipe manufactured in the USA • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 75 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 3 . 2 % v / v ) • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Multi - purpose Use Single use wipes for hands .
Close properly after dispensing to maintain purity , as alcohol by nature evaporates quickly .
Dispose properly .
Apply thoroughly to hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Warnings For external use only , hands , general cleaning .
Does not replace wipes for medical procedures .
Flammable ; keep away from fire or flame .
Do not ingest .
Do not use • Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop , condition persists for more than 72 hours • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water .
Avoid contact with broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develop .
Condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply thoroughly to hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Other information • Keep out of light , store at room temperature 59 - 86 degrees Farenheit Inactive ingredients glycerin , purified water USP Single wipe use .
Apply thoroughly to hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 230 mL NDC : 76830 - 501 - 07 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
