1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ATNAA is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by susceptible organophosphorus nerve agents having anticholinesterase activity in adults .
ATNAA , a combination of atropine , a cholinergic muscarinic antagonist , and pralidoxime chloride , a cholinesterase reactivator , is indicated for the treatment of poisoning by susceptible organophosphorus nerve agents having anticholinesterase activity in adults .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • ATNAA is intended as an initial treatment as soon as symptoms appear ; definitive medical care should be sought immediately .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dosage for Mild Symptoms : If a service member experiences some or all of the mild symptoms , they should self - administer one injection intramuscularly into the lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
If , at any time after the first dose , the service member develops any of the severe symptoms or if the mild symptoms are not relieved , a buddy should administer two additional injections intramuscularly in rapid succession .
( 2 . 2 ) • Dosage for Severe Symptoms : If a service member has any of the severe symptoms , immediately buddy - administer three injections intramuscularly into the service member ' s lateral thigh muscle or buttocks in rapid succession .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Information • Three ( 3 ) ATNAA single - dose autoinjectors should be available for use by each service member at risk for organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning ; one ( 1 ) for mild symptoms plus two ( 2 ) more for severe symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Note that individuals may not have all symptoms included under the mild or severe symptom category .
• For optimal reactivation of organophosphorus - inhibited cholinesterase , the ATNAA should be administered as soon as possible after appearance of symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning .
• ATNAA should be self - or buddy – administered by service members after donning protective mask and hood at the first sign of a chemical attack , and only if some or all of the mild symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent exposure are present .
• Only administer ATNAA to service members experiencing symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning in a situation where exposure is known or suspected .
The ATNAA autoinjector is intended as an initial treatment of the symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning as soon as symptoms appear ; definitive medical care should be sought immediately .
• Close supervision of all treated service members is indicated for at least 48 to 72 hours .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit [ see Dosage Forms and Strengths ( 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Dosage Information Dosage for Mild Symptoms First Dose : If you experience some or all of the mild symptoms of nerve agent exposure listed in Table 1 , self - administer one ( 1 ) ATNAA injection intramuscularly into the lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
Wait 10 to 15 minutes for ATNAA to take effect .
If , after 10 to 15 minutes , the symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning are not relieved , seek someone else to check your symptoms .
Another service member must administer the second and third injections .
Additional Doses : If you encounter a service member suffering from severe symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning listed in Table 1 and one ATNAA has been self - administered , administer two ( 2 ) additional ATNAA injections intramuscularly in rapid succession into the casualty ' s lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
Dosage for Severe Symptoms Casualties with severe symptoms may experience most or all of the mild symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning , plus most or all of the severe symptoms listed in Table 1 .
If a service member is encountered suffering from severe signs of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning and ATNAA self - aid has not been administered , immediately administer in rapid succession three ( 3 ) ATNAA injections into the casualty ' s lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
Table 1 .
Common Symptoms of Organophosphorus Nerve Agent ExposureMild Symptoms Severe Symptoms • Unexplained runny nose • Unexplained sudden headache • Sudden drooling • Difficulty in seeing ( dimness of vision and miosis ) • Tightness of chest or difficulty in breathing • Wheezing and coughing • Localized sweating and muscular twitching in the area of contaminated skin • Stomach cramps • Nausea , with or without vomiting • Tachycardia followed by bradycardia • Strange or confused behavior • Increased wheezing and increased difficulty in breathing • Severely pinpointed pupils • Red eyes with tearing • Vomiting • Severe muscular twitching and general weakness • Involuntary urination and defecation • Convulsions • Unconsciousness • Respiratory failure • Bradycardia 2 . 3 Administration Instructions The following instructions should be given to service members for the administration of ATNAA single - dose injections .
Self - Aid • Administer one ( 1 ) ATNAA into your lateral thigh muscle or buttocks as follows : • Remove gray safety cap from back end .
• Place front end on outer thigh and push hard until injector functions .
Hold firmly in place for ten seconds .
• Using a hard surface , bend needle into hook .
Push ejected needle through a pocket flap ( or other thick and conspicuous part of outer clothing ) .
• Wait 10 to 15 minutes for the antidote to take effect .
If you are able to ambulate , know who you are , and where you are , you will NOT need a second injection .
Giving yourself a second set of injections may cause an overdose of the ATNAA which could result in incapacitation .
• If symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning are not relieved after administering one injection , seek someone else to check your symptoms .
A buddy must administer the second and third injections , if needed .
Buddy - Aid If you encounter a service member suffering from any of the severe symptoms of organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning , render the following aid : • Mask the casualty , if necessary .
Do not fasten the hood .
• If self - aid ( one ATNAA injection ) has been administered , administer in rapid succession two ( 2 ) additional ATNAA injections into the casualty ' s lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
Use the casualty ' s own ATNAAs when providing aid .
Do not use your own autoinjectors on a casualty .
If you do , you may not have any antidote available when needed for self - aid .
• If self - aid ( one ATNAA injection ) has not been administered , administer in rapid succession three ( 3 ) ATNAA injections into the casualty ' s lateral thigh muscle or buttocks .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : Each single - dose ATNAA autoinjector contains the following in two separate chambers : • front chamber ( visible ) : a clear , colorless to yellow , sterile solution of atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ) • back chamber ( not visible ) : a clear , colorless to yellow , sterile solution of pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL ) equivalent to pralidoxime ( 476 . 6 mg / 2 mL ) When activated , ATNAA sequentially administers both drugs intramuscularly through a single needle in one injection .
Injection : Each single - dose ATNAA autoinjector contains atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ) plus pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL ) .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiovascular ( CV ) Risks : Tachycardia , palpitations , premature ventricular contractions , flutter , fibrillation , etc .
Use caution in individuals with known CV disease or conduction problems .
( 5 . 1 ) • Heat Injury : May inhibit sweating and lead to hyperthermia ; avoid excessive exercising and heat exposure .
( 5 . 2 ) • Acute Glaucoma : May precipitate in susceptible individuals .
( 5 . 3 ) • Urinary Retention : Administer with caution in individuals with bladder outflow obstruction .
( 5 . 4 ) • Pyloric Stenosis : May convert into complete obstruction .
( 5 . 5 ) • Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease : Atropine may cause inspiration of bronchial secretions and formation of dangerous viscid plugs in individuals with chronic lung disease ; monitor respiratory status .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Risks Cardiovascular adverse reactions reported in the literature for atropine include , but are not limited to , sinus tachycardia , palpitations , premature ventricular contractions , atrial flutter , atrial fibrillation , ventricular flutter , ventricular fibrillation , cardiac syncope , asystole , and myocardial infarction .
In individuals with a recent myocardial infarction and / or severe coronary artery disease , there is a possibility that atropine - induced tachycardia may cause ischemia , extend or initiate myocardial infarcts , and stimulate ventricular ectopy and fibrillation .
ATNAA should be used with caution in individuals with known cardiovascular disease or cardiac conduction problems .
5 . 2 Heat Injury Atropine may inhibit sweating which , in a warm environment or with excessive exercise , can lead to hyperthermia and heat injury .
To the extent feasible , avoid excessive exercise and heat exposure [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Acute Glaucoma Atropine should be administered with caution in individuals at risk for acute glaucoma .
5 . 4 Urinary Retention Atropine should be administered with caution in individuals with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
5 . 5 Pyloric Stenosis Atropine should be administered with caution in individuals with partial pyloric stenosis because of the risk of complete pyloric obstruction .
5 . 6 Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease Atropine may cause inspiration of bronchial secretions and formation of dangerous viscid plugs in individuals with chronic lung disease .
Respiratory status should be monitored in individuals with chronic lung disease following administration of ATNAA .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Cardiovascular Risks [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Heat Injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Acute Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Urinary Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Pyloric Stenosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Exacerbation of Chronic Lung Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of atropine and pralidoxime chloride were identified in the literature .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Common adverse reactions of atropine include dryness of mouth , blurred vision , dry eyes , photophobia , confusion , headache , and dizziness among others .
( 6 . 1 ) The common adverse reactions of pralidoxime chloride include changes in vision , dizziness , headache , drowsiness , nausea , tachycardia , increased blood pressure , muscular weakness , dry mouth , emesis , rash , dry skin , hyperventilation , decreased renal function , excitement , manic behavior , and transient elevation of liver enzymes and creatine phosphokinase .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC at 1 - 833 - 739 - 0945 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Atropine Because ATNAA contains pralidoxime chloride , which may potentiate the effect of atropine , signs of atropinization may occur earlier than might be expected when atropine is used alone .
Common adverse reactions of atropine can be attributed to its antimuscarinic action .
These include dryness of the mouth , blurred vision , dry eyes , photophobia , confusion , headache , dizziness , tachycardia , palpitations , flushing , urinary hesitancy or retention , constipation , abdominal pain , abdominal distention , nausea and vomiting , loss of libido , and impotence .
Anhidrosis may produce heat intolerance and impairment of temperature regulation in a hot environment .
Dysphagia , paralytic ileus , acute angle closure glaucoma , maculopapular rash , petechial rash , and scarletiniform rash have also been reported .
Adverse cardiac reactions , including arrhythmias and myocardial infarction , have been reported with atropine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Larger doses of atropine may produce central nervous system effects such as restlessness , tremor , fatigue , locomotor difficulties , delirium , and hallucinations [ see Overdosage ( 10 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions will occasionally occur ; these are usually seen as skin rashes , and may progress to exfoliation .
Anaphylactic reaction and laryngospasm are rare .
6 . 2 Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime chloride can cause blurred vision , diplopia and impaired accommodation , dizziness , headache , drowsiness , nausea , tachycardia , increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure [ see Clinical Pharmacology 12 . 2 ) ] , muscular weakness , dry mouth , emesis , rash , dry skin , hyperventilation , decreased renal function , and decreased sweating when given parenterally to normal adult volunteers who have not been exposed to anticholinesterase poisons .
In several cases of organophosphorus poisoning , excitement and manic behavior have occurred immediately following recovery of consciousness , in either the presence or absence of pralidoxime chloride administration .
However , similar behavior has not been reported in subjects given pralidoxime chloride in the absence of organophosphorus poisoning .
Elevations in AST and / or ALT enzyme levels were observed in 1 of 6 normal adult volunteers given 1200 mg of pralidoxime chloride intramuscularly , and in 4 of 6 adult volunteers given 1800 mg intramuscularly .
Levels returned to normal in about two weeks .
Transient elevations in creatine kinase were observed in all normal volunteers given the drug .
6 . 3 Injection Site Muscle tightness and pain may occur at the injection site .
6 . 4 Inadvertent Injection In cases where ATNAA is inadvertently administered to service members who are not poisoned with susceptible organophosphorus nerve agents having anticholinesterase activity , the following effects on their ability to function normally may occur .
Atropine 2 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of one ATNAA injection , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with minimal effects on visual , motor , and mental functions , though unsteadiness walking and difficulty concentrating may occur .
Atropine reduces body sweating and increases body temperature , particularly with exercise and under hot conditions .
Atropine 4 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of two ATNAA injections , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with impaired visual acuity , visual near point accommodation , logical reasoning , digital recall , learning , and cognitive reaction time .
Ability to read is reduced or lost .
Subjects are unsteady and need to concentrate on walking .
These effects begin about 15 minutes to one hour or more post - dose .
Atropine 6 mg IM , roughly the equivalent of three ATNAA injections , when given to healthy male volunteers , is associated with the effects described above plus additional central effects including poor coordination , poor attention span , and visual hallucinations ( colored flashes ) in many subjects .
Frank visual hallucinations , auditory hallucinations , disorientation , and ataxia occur in some subjects .
Skilled and labor - intense tasks are performed more slowly and less efficiently .
Decision making takes longer and is sometimes impaired .
It is unclear if the above data , obtained from studies of healthy male subjects , can be extrapolated to other populations .
In the elderly and individuals with co - morbid conditions , the effects of ≥ 2 mg atropine on the ability to see , walk , and think properly are unstudied ; effects may be greater in susceptible populations .
Service members who are mistakenly injected with ATNAA should avoid potentially dangerous overheating , avoid vigorous physical activity , and seek medical attention as soon as feasible .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Succinylcholine and Mivacurium : Accelerated reversal of neuromuscular blocking effects may occur ; monitor with concomitant administration .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Succinylcholine and Mivacurium Since pralidoxime chloride in ATNAA reactivates cholinesterases and succinylcholine and mivacurium are metabolized by cholinesterases , service members poisoned by susceptible organophosphorus nerve agents having anticholinesterase activity who have received ATNAA may exhibit accelerated reversal of the neuromuscular blocking effects of succinylcholine and mivacurium ( relative to poisoned service member who has not received pralidoxime ) .
Monitor for neuromuscular effects with concomitant administration .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Geriatric individuals may be more susceptible to the effects of atropine .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Atropine readily crosses the placental barrier and enters fetal circulation .
There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of atropine , pralidoxime chloride , or the combination in pregnant women .
Adequate animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine , pralidoxime chloride , or the combination .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Atropine has been reported to be excreted in human milk .
It is not known whether pralidoxime chloride is excreted in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of atropine or pralidoxime chloride on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drugs on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for ATNAA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from ATNAA or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ATNAA in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Geriatric individuals may be more susceptible to the effects of atropine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Pralidoxime chloride can cause decreased renal function [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Individuals with severe renal impairment may require less frequent doses after the initial dose .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Individuals with severe hepatic impairment may require less frequent doses after the initial dose .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Symptoms Atropine Manifestations of atropine overdose are dose - related and include flushing , dry skin and mucous membranes , tachycardia , widely dilated pupils that are poorly responsive to light , blurred vision , and fever ( which can sometimes be dangerously elevated ) .
Locomotor difficulties , disorientation , hallucinations , delirium , confusion , agitation , coma , and central depression can occur and may last 48 hours or longer .
In instances of severe atropine intoxication , respiratory depression , coma , circulatory collapse , and death may occur .
Pralidoxime Chloride It may be difficult to differentiate adverse events caused by pralidoxime chloride from those caused by organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning .
Symptoms of pralidoxime chloride overdose may include dizziness , blurred vision , diplopia , headache , impaired accommodation , nausea , and tachycardia .
Transient hypertension caused by pralidoxime chloride may last several hours .
10 . 2 Treatment For atropine overdose , supportive treatment should be administered .
If respiration is depressed , artificial respiration with oxygen is necessary .
Ice bags , a hypothermia blanket , or other methods of cooling may be required to reduce atropine - induced fever , especially in pediatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Catheterization may be necessary if urinary retention occurs .
Since atropine elimination largely takes place through the kidney , urinary output must be maintained and increased if possible ; intravenous fluids may be indicated .
Because of atropine - induced photophobia , the room should be darkened .
A benzodiazepine may be needed to control marked excitement and convulsions .
However , large doses for sedation should be avoided because the central nervous system depressant effect may coincide with the depressant effect occurring late in severe atropine poisoning .
Barbiturates are potentiated by the anticholinesterases ; therefore , barbiturates should be used cautiously in the treatment of convulsions .
Central nervous system stimulants are not recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Each prefilled ATNAA is a single - dose autoinjector that provides an intramuscular dose of atropine , a cholinergic muscarinic antagonist , and pralidoxime chloride , a cholinesterase reactivator , in a self - contained unit , specifically designed for automatic self - or buddy - administration by military personnel .
When activated , each ATNAA injection delivers the following : • 2 . 1 mg of atropine in 0 . 7 mL of sterile , pyrogen - free solution containing 12 . 47 mg glycerin , not more than 2 . 8 mg phenol , 3 . 05 mg sodium citrate dihydrate , 3 . 5 mg citric acid monohydrate , and Water for Injection .
The pH range is 4 . 0 – 5 . 0 .
• 600 mg of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg of pralidoxime in 2 mL of sterile , pyrogen - free solution containing 40 mg benzyl alcohol , 22 . 5 mg glycine , and Water for Injection .
The pH is adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
The pH range is 2 . 0 – 3 . 0 .
After ATNAA has been activated , the empty autoinjector should be disposed of properly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
It cannot be refilled , nor can the protruding needle be retracted .
Atropine occurs as white crystals , usually needle - like , or as a white , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water with a molecular weight of 289 . 38 .
Atropine , a naturally occurring belladonna alkaloid , is a racemic mixture of equal parts of d - and l - hyoscyamine , with activity due almost entirely to the levo isomer of the drug .
Chemically , atropine is designated as 1αH , 5αH - Tropan - 3α - ol ( ± ) - tropate .
Its empirical formula is C17H23NO3 and its structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralidoxime chloride is an odorless , white to pale - yellow crystalline powder , freely soluble in water , with a molecular weight of 172 . 61 .
Chemically , pralidoxime chloride is designated as 2 - formyl - 1 - methylpyridinium chloride oxime .
Its empirical formula is C7H9CIN2O and its structural formula is indicated above .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Atropine Atropine competitively blocks the effects of acetylcholine , including excess acetylcholine due to organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning , at muscarinic cholinergic receptors on smooth muscle , cardiac muscle , secretory gland cells , and in peripheral autonomic ganglia and the central nervous system .
Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime chloride reactivates acetylcholinesterase which has been inactivated by phosphorylation due to susceptible organophosphorus nerve agents having anticholinesterase activity .
However , pralidoxime chloride does not reactivate acetylcholinesterase inactivated by all organophosphorus nerve agents ( e . g . soman ) .
Pralidoxime chloride cannot reactivate phosphorylated acetylcholinesterases that have undergone a further chemical reaction known as " aging . "
Reactivated acetylcholinesterase hydrolyzes excess acetylcholine resulting from organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning to help restore impaired cholinergic neural function .
Reactivation is clinically important because only a small proportion of active acetylcholinesterase is needed to maintain vital functions .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Atropine Atropine reduces secretions in the mouth and respiratory passages , relieves airway constriction , and may reduce centrally - mediated respiratory paralysis .
In severe organophosphorus nerve agent poisoning , a fully atropinized patient may develop or continue to have respiratory failure and may require artificial respiration and suctioning of airway secretions .
Atropine may cause thickening of secretions .
Atropine - induced parasympathetic inhibition may be preceded by a transient phase of stimulation , especially on the heart where small doses first slow the rate before characteristic tachycardia develops due to paralysis of vagal control .
Atropine increases heart rate and reduces atrioventricular conduction time .
Adequate atropine doses can prevent or abolish bradycardia or asystole produced by organophosphorus nerve agents .
Atropine may decrease the degree of partial heart block which can occur after organophosphorus poisoning .
In some patients with complete heart block , atropine may accelerate the idioventricular rate ; in others , the rate is stabilized .
In some patients with conduction defects , atropine may cause paradoxical atrioventricular ( A - V ) block and nodal rhythm .
Atropine will not act on the neuromuscular junction and has no effect on muscle paralysis or weakness , fasciculations or tremors ; pralidoxime is intended to treat these symptoms .
Systemic doses of atropine slightly raise systolic and lower diastolic pressures and can produce significant postural hypotension .
Such doses also slightly increase cardiac output and decrease central venous pressure .
Atropine can dilate cutaneous blood vessels , particularly the " blush " area ( atropine flush ) , and may inhibit sweating , thereby causing hyperthermia , particularly in a warm environment or with exercise [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime chloride has its most critical effect in relieving respiratory muscle paralysis .
Because pralidoxime chloride is less effective in relieving depression of the respiratory center , atropine is always required concomitantly to block the effect of accumulated acetylcholine at this site .
Pralidoxime chloride has a minor role in relieving muscarinic signs and symptoms , such as salivation or bronchospasm .
ATNAA temporarily increases blood pressure , a known effect of pralidoxime chloride .
In a study of 24 healthy young adults administered a single dose of atropine and pralidoxime chloride auto - injector intramuscularly ( approximately 9 mg / kg pralidoxime chloride ) , diastolic blood pressure increased from baseline by 11 ± 14 mm Hg ( mean ± SD ) , and systolic blood pressure increased by 16 ± 19 mm Hg , at 15 minutes post - dose .
Blood pressures remained elevated at these approximate levels through one hour post - dose , began to decrease at two hours post - dose , and were near pre - dose baseline at four hours post - dose .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Atropine Atropine is well absorbed after intramuscular administration .
Single dose ATNAA pharmacokinetic data for atropine are shown in Figure 1 .
The intramuscular injection site was the antero - lateral thigh .
Mean atropine plasma concentrations shown in Figure 1 indicate a plateau beginning at about 5 minutes post - dose and extending through 60 minutes post - dose .
Figure 1 .
Mean Atropine Plasma Concentrations After a Single ATNAA Intramuscular Injection in 24 Healthy Adult Subjects [ Men ( N = 12 ) , Women ( N = 12 ) ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pralidoxime Chloride Pralidoxime chloride is well absorbed after intramuscular injection .
ATNAA single dose pharmacokinetic data for pralidoxime chloride 600 mg are provided in Figure 2 .
Figure 2 .
Mean Pralidoxime Plasma Concentrations After a Single ATNAA Intramuscular Injection in 24 Healthy Adult Subjects [ Men ( N = 12 ) , Women ( N = 12 ) ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The pharmacokinetic properties of the components of ATNAA are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Properties of the Components of ATNAA Following Intramuscular Administration in Healthy SubjectsPharmacokinetics related to : Atropine Pralidoxime Absorption Cmax ( mean ± standard deviation ) 13 ± 3 ng / mL 7 ± 3 mcg / mL Tmax ( mean ± standard deviation ) 31 ± 30 minutes 28 ± 15 minutes Distribution Protein binding 14 to 22 % to plasma proteins Not appreciably bound to serum proteins Elimination T ½ 2 . 4 ± 0 . 3 hours 2 ± 1 hours Major route of excretion Urinary Urinary Percentage of dose excreted in urine 50 to 60 % as unchanged drug .
About 17 to 28 % eliminated in the first 100 minutes .
72 to 94 % as unchanged drug .
About 57 to 70 % eliminated in the first 30 minutes , partly as metabolite .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Specific Populations Renal and Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of atropine or pralidoxime have not been evaluated in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment .
Gender Atropine : ATNAA AUC0 - inf and Cmax values for atropine are 15 % higher in females than males .
The half - life of atropine is approximately 20 minutes shorter in females than males .
Pralidoxime Chloride : A single ATNAA injection produced a mean Cmax for pralidoxime is about 36 % higher in females than males .
Tmax is 23 minutes in females and 32 minutes in males .
Pralidoxime half - life in males and females are 153 and 107 minutes , respectively .
Geriatric Atropine : Half - life of intravenous atropine is 3 . 0 ± 0 . 9 hours in adults and 10 . 0 ± 7 . 3 hours in geriatric patients ( 65 - 75 years of age ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis ATNAA is indicated for short - term emergency use only , and no adequate studies regarding the carcinogenic potential of atropine or pralidoxime chloride have been conducted .
Mutagenesis Studies to assess the mutagenic potential of atropine or pralidoxime chloride have not been conducted .
Impairment of Fertility Atropine : In studies in which male rats were orally administered atropine ( 62 . 5 to 125 mg / kg ) for one week prior to mating and throughout a 5 - day mating period with untreated females , a dose - related decrease in fertility was observed .
A no - effect dose for male reproductive toxicity was not established .
The lowest dose tested was 290 times ( on a mg / m2 basis ) the dose of atropine in a single application of ATNAA ( 2 . 1 mg ) .
Fertility studies of atropine in females have not been conducted .
Pralidoxime Chloride : The effects of pralidoxime chloride on fertility have not been assessed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Each single - dose ATNAA autoinjector contains atropine ( 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL ; colorless to yellow solution , visible in front chamber ) and pralidoxime chloride ( 600 mg / 2 mL , equivalent to pralidoxime 476 . 6 mg / 2 mL ; colorless to yellow solution , not visible in rear chamber ) .
ATNAA , NDC - 11704 - 777 - 01 , is supplied through the Directorate of Medical Materiel , Defense Supply Center , Philadelphia .
Each ATNAA is supplied in a pouch that provides protection from light .
Store between 20ºC to 25ºC ( 68 ºF to 77ºF ) ; excursions permitted between 15ºC and 30ºC ( between 59ºF and 86ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Not made with natural rubber latex .
Keep from freezing .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Use by Military Personnel ATNAA is intended for use by Military Personnel .
See the illustrated Instruction Sheet for Military Personnel .
Seek Definitive Medical Care If feasible and appropriate , advise service member that ATNAA is an initial emergency treatment , that they need additional care at a healthcare facility .
Avoid Overheating If feasible and appropriate , advise the service member to avoid a hot environment and excessive physical activity since ATNAA can inhibit sweating which can lead to overheating and heat injury .
Manufactured by : Meridian Medical Technologies ® , LLC St . Louis , MO 63146 Distributed by : Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support , Philadelphia Medical Directorate 700 Robbins Ave Philadelphia , PA 19111 Manufactured for : U . S . Army Medical Research and Development Command ATTN : FCMR - ORA 1430 Veterans Drive Fort Detrick , MD 21702 - 5012 07 / 2022 Instruction Sheet for Military Personnel [ MULTIMEDIA ] Revised : 5 / 2020 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton Label ANTIDOTE TREATMENT NERVE AGENT , AUTO - INJECTOR For Use in Nerve Agent Poisoning Only ( atropine and pralidoxime chloride injection ) Each single - dose auto - injector delivers an intramuscular injection of 2 . 1 mg / 0 . 7 mL of atropine and 600 mg / 2 mL of pralidoxime chloride equivalent to 476 . 6 mg pralidoxime .
Distributed by : Defense Logistics Agency Troop Support , Philadelphia Medical Directorate Manufactured for : U . S . Army Medical Research and Development Command , by Meridian Medical Technologies , LLC 1 2 3 10 SECONDS ATNAA Utilizes Binaject ® Technology 0002163 Sterile Solution for Intramuscular Use Only NSN 6505 - 01 - 362 - 7427 Rx Only Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Keep From Freezing .
Protect From Light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
