This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , ( w / w ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Benzalkonium Chloride ( 0 . 1 % w / w ) .
• Glycerol ( 0 . 2 % w / w ) .
• Tocopheryl Acetate ( 0 . 05 % w / w ) • Propylene Glycol ( 0 . 2 % w / w ) .
• Aloe Barbadensis Extract ( 0 . 02 % w / w ) • Citric acid ( 0 . 04 % w / w ) • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % w / w Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % w / w .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand & Skin Sanitizer Use Skin should be rubbed vigorously with the wet wipe .
No need to rinse after usage .
Allow skin to dry without wiping .
For adults and children 2 years and over .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use do not use • as baby wipe • on open skin wounds • if you are allergic to any other ingredient .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or allergic reaction occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Open contaniner plastic cover .
Tear off aluminum cover .
From center of wipe roll , pull up wipe corner ; Twist wipe corner from the center plastic cap , thread through the hole .
Pull through about one inch .
Replace plastic cover .
Pull out wipes as needed and snap off at 90 angle .
Wipe skin , hands , wrist and elbow ensuring wetting completely .
Do not rinse after usage .
Keep center cap closed to prevent moisture loss .
Discard properly after use .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store in dry and cool place and away from oxidizers .
• May discolor some fabrics , harmful to wood finishes and plastics .
Inactive ingredients Aqua , Glycerol , Propylene Glycol , Parfum , Tocopheryl Acetate , Citric acid , Aloe Barbadensis Extract Package Label - Principal Display Panel 80 PCS NDC : 86937 - 002 - 02 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 200 PCS NDC : 86937 - 002 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
