1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % is a prostaglandin analog indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP , 0 . 004 % should not be administered more than once daily since it has been shown that more frequent administration of prostaglandin analogs may decrease the intraocular pressure lowering effect .
Reduction of the intraocular pressure starts approximately 2 hours after the first administration with maximum effect reached after 12 hours .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution may be used concomitantly with other topical ophthalmic drug products to lower intraocular pressure .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes apart .
One drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Ophthalmic solution containing travoprost 0 . 04 mg / mL .
Solution containing 0 . 04 mg / mL travoprost ophthalmic solution .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pigmentation .
Pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) and eyelashes can occur .
Iris pigmentation likely to be permanent .
( 5 . 1 ) • Eyelash Changes .
Gradual change to eyelashes including increased length , thickness and number of lashes .
Usually reversible .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Pigmentation Travoprost ophthalmic solution has been reported to cause changes to pigmented tissues .
The most frequently reported changes have been increased pigmentation of the iris , periorbital tissue ( eyelid ) and eyelashes .
Pigmentation is expected to increase as long as travoprost is administered .
The pigmentation change is due to increased melanin content in the melanocytes rather than to an increase in the number of melanocytes .
After discontinuation of travoprost , pigmentation of the iris is likely to be permanent , while pigmentation of the periorbital tissue and eyelash changes have been reported to be reversible in some patients .
Patients who receive treatment should be informed of the possibility of increased pigmentation .
The long term effects of increased pigmentation are not known .
Iris color change may not be noticeable for several months to years .
Typically , the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the periphery of the iris and the entire iris or parts of the iris become more brownish .
Neither nevi nor freckles of the iris appear to be affected by treatment .
While treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution can be continued in patients who develop noticeably increased iris pigmentation , these patients should be examined regularly .
( see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION , 17 . 1 ) .
5 . 2 Eyelash Changes Travoprost ophthalmic solution may gradually change eyelashes and vellus hair in the treated eye .
These changes include increased length , thickness , and number of lashes .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
5 . 3 Intraocular Inflammation Travoprost ophthalmic solution should be used with caution in patients with active intraocular inflammation ( e . g . , uveitis ) because the inflammation may be exacerbated .
5 . 4 Macular Edema Macular edema , including cystoid macular edema , has been reported during treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution should be used with caution in aphakic patients , in pseudophakic patients with a torn posterior lens capsule , or in patients with known risk factors for macular edema .
5 . 5 Angle - closure , Inflammatory or Neovascular Glaucoma Travoprost ophthalmic solution has not been evaluated for the treatment of angle - closure , inflammatory or neovascular glaucoma .
5 . 6 Bacterial Keratitis There have been reports of bacterial keratitis associated with the use of multiple - dose containers of topical ophthalmic products .
These containers had been inadvertently contaminated by patients who , in most cases , had a concurrent corneal disease or a disruption of the ocular epithelial surface ( see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION , 17 . 3 ) .
5 . 7 Use with Contact Lenses Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of travoprost ophthalmic solution and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction ( 30 % to 50 % ) is conjunctival hyperemia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Alembic Pharmaceutical Inc . at 1 - 866 - 210 - 9797 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common adverse reaction observed in controlled clinical studies with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % was ocular hyperemia which was reported in 30 to 50 % of patients .
Up to 3 % of patients discontinued therapy due to conjunctival hyperemia .
Ocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 5 to 10 % in these clinical studies included decreased visual acuity , eye discomfort , foreign body sensation , pain and pruritus .
Ocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 1 to 4 % in clinical studies with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % included abnormal vision , blepharitis , blurred vision , cataract , conjunctivitis , corneal staining , dry eye , iris discoloration , keratitis , lid margin crusting , ocular inflammation , photophobia , subconjunctival hemorrhage and tearing .
Nonocular adverse reactions reported at an incidence of 1 to 5 % in these clinical studies were allergy , angina pectoris , anxiety , arthritis , back pain , bradycardia , bronchitis , chest pain , cold / flu syndrome , depression , dyspepsia , gastrointestinal disorder , headache , hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , hypotension , infection , pain , prostate disorder , sinusitis , urinary incontinence and urinary tract infections .
In post - marketing use with prostaglandin analogs , periorbital and lid changes including deepening of the eyelid sulcus have been observed .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic effects : Travoprost was teratogenic in rats , at an intravenous ( IV ) dose up to 10 mcg / kg / day ( 250 times the maximal recommended human ocular dose ( MRHOD ) , evidenced by an increase in the incidence of skeletal malformations as well as external and visceral malformations , such as fused sternebrae , domed head and hydrocephaly .
Travoprost was not teratogenic in rats at IV doses up to 3 mcg / kg / day ( 75 times the MRHOD ) , or in mice at subcutaneous doses up to 1 mcg / kg / day ( 25 times the MRHOD ) .
Travoprost produced an increase in post - implantation losses and a decrease in fetal viability in rats at IV doses > 3 mcg / kg / day ( 75 times the MRHOD ) and in mice at subcutaneous doses > 0 . 3 mcg / kg / day ( 7 . 5 times the MRHOD ) .
In the offspring of female rats that received travoprost subcutaneously from Day 7 of pregnancy to lactation Day 21 at doses of ≥ 0 . 12 mcg / kg / day ( 3 times the MRHOD ) , the incidence of postnatal mortality was increased , and neonatal body weight gain was decreased .
Neonatal development was also affected , evidenced by delayed eye opening , pinna detachment and preputial separation , and by decreased motor activity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % administration in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , travoprost ophthalmic solution should be administered during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers A study in lactating rats demonstrated that radiolabeled travoprost and / or its metabolites were excreted in milk .
It is not known whether this drug or its metabolites are excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when travoprost ophthalmic solution is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Use in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years is not recommended because of potential safety concerns related to increased pigmentation following long - term chronic use .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic and Renal Impairment Travoprost ophthalmic solution has been studied in patients with hepatic impairment and also in patients with renal impairment .
No clinically relevant changes in hematology , blood chemistry , or urinalysis laboratory data were observed in these patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Travoprost is a synthetic prostaglandin F analogue .
Its chemical name is [ 1 R - [ 1α ( Z ) , 2β ( 1 E , 3 R * ) , 3α , 5α ] ] - 7 - [ 3 , 5 Dihydroxy - 2 - [ 3 - hydroxy - 4 - [ 3 ( trifluoromethyl ) phenoxy ] - 1 - butenyl ] cyclopentyl ] - 5 heptenoic acid , 1 - methylethylester .
It has a molecular formula of C26H35F3O6 and a molecular weight of 500 . 55 .
The chemical structure of travoprost is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Travoprost is a clear , colorless and viscous oil that is very soluble in acetonitrile , methanol , octanol , and chloroform .
It is practically insoluble in water .
Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 004 % is supplied as sterile , buffered aqueous solution of travoprost with a pH of approximately 6 . 0 and an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsmol / kg .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution contains Active : travoprost 0 . 04 mg / mL ; Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 015 % w / v ; Inactives : polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil , tromethamine , boric acid , mannitol , edetate disodium , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Travoprost free acid , a prostaglandin analog is a selective FP prostanoid receptor agonist which is believed to reduce intraocular pressure by increasing uveoscleral outflow .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Travoprost is absorbed through the cornea and is hydrolyzed to the active free acid .
Data from four multiple dose pharmacokinetic studies ( totaling 107 subjects ) have shown that plasma concentrations of the free acid are below 0 . 01 ng / mL ( the quantitation limit of the assay ) in two - thirds of the subjects .
In those individuals with quantifiable plasma concentrations ( N = 38 ) , the mean plasma Cmax was 0 . 018 ± 0 . 007 ng / mL ( ranged 0 . 01 to 0 . 052 ng / mL ) and was reached within 30 minutes .
From these studies , travoprost is estimated to have a plasma half - life of 45 minutes .
There was no difference in plasma concentrations between Days 1 and 7 , indicating steady - state was reached early and that there was no significant accumulation .
Travoprost , an isopropyl ester prodrug , is hydrolyzed by esterases in the cornea to its biologically active free acid .
Systemically , travoprost free acid is metabolized to inactive metabolites via betaoxidation of the α ( carboxylic acid ) chain to give the 1 , 2 - dinor and 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetranor analogs , via oxidation of the 15 - hydroxyl moiety , as well as via reduction of the 13 , 14 double bond .
The elimination of travoprost free acid from plasma was rapid and levels were generally below the limit of quantification within one hour after dosing .
The terminal elimination half - life of travoprost free acid was estimated from fourteen subjects and ranged from 17 minutes to 86 minutes with the mean halflife of 45 minutes .
Less than 2 % of the topical ocular dose of travoprost was excreted in the urine within 4 hours as the travoprost free acid .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats at subcutaneous doses of 10 , 30 , or 100 mcg / kg / day did not show any evidence of carcinogenic potential .
However , at 100 mcg / kg / day , male rats were only treated for 82 weeks , and the maximum tolerated dose ( MTD ) was not reached in the mouse study .
The high dose ( 100 mcg / kg ) corresponds to exposure levels over 400 times the human exposure at the maximum recommended human ocular dose ( MRHOD ) of 0 . 04 mcg / kg , based on plasma active drug levels .
Travoprost was not mutagenic in the Ames test , mouse micronucleus test or rat chromosome aberration assay .
A slight increase in the mutant frequency was observed in one of two mouse lymphoma assays in the presence of rat S - 9 activation enzymes .
Travoprost did not affect mating or fertility indices in male or female rats at subcutaneous doses up to 10 mcg / kg / day [ 250 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose of 0 . 04 mcg / kg / day on a mcg / kg basis ( MRHOD ) ] .
At 10 mcg / kg / day , the mean number of corpora lutea was reduced , and the post - implantation losses were increased .
These effects were not observed at 3 mcg / kg / day ( 75 times the MRHOD ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In clinical studies , patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and baseline pressure of 25 to 27 mm Hg who were treated with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % dosed once - daily in the evening demonstrated 7 to 8 mm Hg reductions in intraocular pressure .
In subgroup analyses of these studies , mean IOP reduction in black patients was up to 1 . 8 mm Hg greater than in non - black patients .
It is not known at this time whether this difference is attributed to race or to heavily pigmented irides .
In a multi - center , randomized , controlled trial , patients with mean baseline intraocular pressure of 24 to 26 mm Hg on TIMOPTIC * 0 . 5 % BID who were treated with travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % dosed QD adjunctively to TIMOPTIC * 0 . 5 % BID demonstrated 6 to 7 mm Hg reductions in intraocular pressure .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution 0 . 004 % is a sterile , isotonic , buffered , preserved , aqueous solution of travoprost ( 0 . 04 mg / mL ) .
Travoprost ophthalmic solution is supplied as a 2 . 5 mL and a 5 mL solution in a 5 mL screw neck bottle made with natural polypropylene , nozzle made with low density polyethylene and turquoise color screw cap made with high density polyethylene .
Tamper evidence is provided with a tamper evident ring around the closure and neck area of the package .
2 . 5 mL fill NDC 62332 - 510 - 25 5 mL fill NDC 62332 - 510 - 05 Storage Store at 2º to 25ºC ( 36º to 77ºF ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Potential for Pigmentation Patients should be advised about the potential for increased brown pigmentation of the iris , which may be permanent .
Patients should also be informed about the possibility of eyelid skin darkening , which may be reversible after discontinuation of travoprost ophthalmic solution 0 . 004 % .
17 . 2 Potential for Eyelash Changes Patients should also be informed of the possibility of eyelash and vellus hair changes in the treated eye during treatment with travoprost ophthalmic solution .
These changes may result in a disparity between eyes in length , thickness , pigmentation , number of eyelashes or vellus hairs , and / or direction of eyelash growth .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
17 . 3 Handling the Container Patients should be instructed to avoid allowing the tip of the dispensing container to contact the eye , surrounding structures , fingers , or any other surface in order to avoid contamination of the solution by common bacteria known to cause ocular infections .
Serious damage to the eye and subsequent loss of vision may result from using contaminated solutions .
17 . 4 When to Seek Physician Advice Patients should also be advised that if they develop an intercurrent ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma or infection ) , have ocular surgery , or develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and eyelid reactions , they should immediately seek their physician ’ s advice concerning the continued use of travoprost ophthalmic solution .
17 . 5 Use with Contact Lenses Patients should be advised that travoprost ophthalmic solution contains benzalkonium chloride , which may be absorbed by soft contact lenses .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to instillation of travoprost ophthalmic solution and may be reinserted 15 minutes following its administration .
17 . 6 Use with Other Ophthalmic Drugs If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes between applications .
* TIMOPTIC is the registered trademark of Merck & Co . , Inc .
Manufactured for : Alembic Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 , USA Made in India .
Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 043 , INDIA .
Revised : 07 / 2022 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP 0 . 004 % , 2 . 5 mL Fill Container [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP 0 . 004 % , 2 . 5 mL Fill Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP 0 . 004 % , 5 . 0 mL Fill Container [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Travoprost Ophthalmic Solution USP 0 . 004 % , 5 . 0 mL Fill Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
