To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of methenamine hippurate tablets USP and other anti bacterial drugs , methenamine hippurate should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Each yellow capsule - shaped tablet contains 1 g methenamine hippurate which is the Hippuric Acid Salt of Methena mine ( hexamethylene tetramine ) .
The tablet also contains inactive ingredients .
FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine , see PRECAUTIONS ) , Magnesium Stearate , Povidone , and Saccharin Sodium .
ACTIONS Microbiology : methenamine hippurate tablets USP has antibacterial activity because the methenamine component is hydolyzed to formaldehyde in acid urine .
Hippuric acid , the other component , has some antibacterial activity and also acts to keep the urine acid .
The drug is generally active against E . coli , enterococci and staphylococci .
Enterobacter aerogenes is generally resistant .
The urine must be kept sufficiently acid for urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and Pseudomonas to be inhibited .
Human Pharmacology : Within 1 / 2 hour after ingestion of a single 1 - gram dose of methenamine hippurate , anti bacterial activity is demonstrable in the urine .
Urine has continuous anti bacterial activity when methenamine hippurate is ad min istered at the recommended dosage schedule of 1 gram twice daily . Over 90 % of methenamine moiety is excreted in the urine within 24 hours after administration of a single 1 - gram dose .
Similarly , the hippurate moiety is rapidly absorbed and excreted , and it reaches the urine by both tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
This action may be important in older patients or in those with some degree of renal impairment .
INDICATIONS Methenamine hippurate is indicated for prophylactic or suppressive treatment of frequently recurring urinary tract infections when longterm therapy is considered necessary .
This drug should only be used after eradication of the infection by other appropriate antimicrobial agents .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of methenamine hippurate and other antibacterial drugs , methenamine hippurate should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methenamine hippurate tablets USP is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe hepatic insufficiency , or severe dehydration .
Methenamine preparations should not be given to patients taking sulfonamides because some sulfona mides may form an insoluble precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine .
WARNING Large doses of methenamine ( 8 grams daily for 3 to 4 weeks ) have caused bladder irritation , painful and frequent micturition , albuminuria , and gross hematuria .
PRECAUTIONS Prescribing methenamine hippurate in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
• Care should be taken to maintainan acid pH of the urine , especially when treating infections due to urea - splitting organisms such as Proteus and strains of Pseudomonas .
• In a few instances in one study , the serum transaminase levels were slightly elevated during treatment but returned to normal while the patients were still taking methenamine hippurate .
Because of this report , it is recommended that liver function studies be performed periodically on patients taking the drug , especially those with liver dysfunction .
• Use in Pregnancy : In early pregnancy the safe use of methenamine hippurate is not established .
In the last trimester , safety is suggested , but not definitely proved .
No adverse effects on the fetus were seen in studies in pregnant rats and rabbits . Methenamine hippurate taken during pregnancy can interfere with laboratory tests of urine estriol ( resulting in unmeasurably low values ) when acid hydrolysis is used in the laboratory procedure .
This interference is due to the presence in the urine of methenamine and / or formaldehyde .
Enzymatic hydrolysis , in place of acid hydrolysis , will circumvent this problem .
• This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartra zine ) , which may cause allergictype reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible individuals .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartra zine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including methenamine hippurate should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When methenamine hippurate is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by methenamine hippurate or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of methenamine hippurate did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Methenamine hippurate is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency and severe hepatic insufficiency ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS REPORTING ADVERSE REACTION STATEMENT AND PHONE NUMBERS CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR MEDICAL ADVICE ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
YOU MAY REPORT SIDE EFFECTS TO THE FDA AT 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 OR LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 844 - 740 - 7500 Minor adverse reactions have been reported in less than 3 . 5 % of patients treated .
These reactions have included nausea , upset stomach , dysuria , and rash .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 1 tablet ( 1 . 0 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for adults and pediatric patients over 12 years of age .
1 / 2 to 1 tablet ( 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 g ) twice daily ( morning and night ) for pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age .
Since the antibacterial activity of methenamine hippurate is greater in acid urine , restriction of alkalinizing foods and medications is desirable .
If necessary , as indicated by urinary pH and clinical response , supplemental acid ifica tion of the urine should be instituted .
The efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 - gram scored , capsuleshaped yellow tablets debossed W 1037 in bottles of 100 ( NDC 69315 - 210 - 01 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Prescribing information as of January 2016 Distributed by : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 Manufactured by : Patheon Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Cincinnati , OH 45237 70032118 Rev . 01 / 16 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
