This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the OTC Monograph published in April 2019 .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 71 . 5 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerine ( inactive ) • Water ( inactive ) • Isopropyl alcohol ( 2 % volume / volume ( v / v ) ) ( inactive ) • Sodium hydroxide ( 0 . 01 % ( v / v ) ) ( inactive ) The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 71 . 5 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use For hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria on the skin Warnings Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame For external use only Do not use Do not use on damaged , inflamed or broken skin Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of eye contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash develops and lasts for more than 72 hrs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash develops and lasts more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product • allow to dry without wiping Other information • keep out of direct sunlight • Store in cool , dry conditions Inactive ingredients glycerin , water , isopropyl alcohol , sodium hydroxide Use Use for hand sanitizing to decrease bacteria on the skin Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3785 mL BOTTLE NDC : 75801 - 999 - 37 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
