1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE XURIDEN ® is indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the treatment of hereditary orotic aciduria .
XURIDEN is a pyrimidine analog for uridine replacement indicated in adult and pediatric patients for the treatment of hereditary orotic aciduria .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) : • The starting dosage is 60 mg / kg once daily ; the dose may be increased to120 mg / kg ( not to exceed 8 grams ) once daily for insufficient efficacy .
• See the full prescribing information for 60 mg / kg and 120 mg / kg weight - based dosing tables .
Preparation and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) • Measure the dose using either a scale accurate to at least 0 . 1 gram , or a graduated teaspoon , accurate to the fraction of the dose to be administered .
• Administer the dose with food ( applesauce , pudding or yogurt ) or in milk or infant formula .
See full prescribing information for preparation and administration instructions .
2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended starting dosage of oral XURIDEN is 60 mg / kg once daily .
Increase the dosage of XURIDEN to 120 mg / kg ( not to exceed 8 grams ) once daily for insufficient efficacy , such as occurrence of one of the following : • Levels of orotic acid in urine remain above normal or increase above the usual or expected range for the patient • Laboratory values ( e . g . , red blood cell or white blood cell indices ) affected by hereditary orotic aciduria show evidence of worsening • Worsening of other signs or symptoms of the disease The XURIDEN dose to be administered at the 60 mg / kg and 120 mg / kg dose levels by body - weight is presented in Tables 1 and 2 .
A 2 gram packet of XURIDEN contains approximately ¾ teaspoon of XURIDEN .
Therefore , in the tables below for patients requiring doses in multiples of 2 grams ( ¾ teaspoon ) an entire packet ( s ) may be administered without weighing or measuring .
XURIDEN Daily Dose Based on Body Weight ( kg ) Patient Weight Table 1 : XURIDEN 60 mg / kg [ 1 ] Dose Level Kilograms Dose to be Administered Using a Scale ( grams ) Dose in Teaspoons up to 5 0 . 4 ⅛ 6 - 10 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 ¼ 11 - 15 0 . 7 to 0 . 9 ½ 16 - 20 1 to 1 . 2 21 - 25 1 . 3 to 1 . 5 26 - 30 1 . 6 to 1 . 8 ¾ null 31 - 35 1 . 9 to 2 . 1 [ 2 ] 36 - 40 2 . 2 to 2 . 4 1 41 - 45 2 . 5 to 2 . 7 46 - 50 2 . 8 to 3 51 - 55 3 . 1 to 3 . 3 1 ¼ 56 - 60 3 . 4 to 3 . 6 61 - 65 3 . 7 to 3 . 9 [ 3 ] 1 ½ null 66 - 70 4 to 4 . 2 null 71 - 75 4 . 3 to 4 . 5 Above 75 6 [ 4 ] 2 null [ 1 ] total daily dose by weight category in the tables was rounded to achieve the approximate dose level [ 2 ] may use 1 entire 2 gram packet without weighing or measuring [ 3 ] may use 2 entire 2 gram packets without weighing or measuring [ 4 ] may use 3 entire 2 gram packets without weighing or measuring Patient Weight Table 2 : XURIDEN 120 mg / kg [ 1 ] Dose Level Kilograms Dose to be Administered Using a Scale ( grams ) Dose in Teaspoons up to 5 0 . 8 ¼ 6 - 10 0 . 8 to 1 . 2 ½ 11 - 15 1 . 4 to 1 . 8 ¾ 16 - 20 2 to 2 . 4 1 21 - 25 2 . 6 to 3 26 - 30 3 . 2 to 3 . 6 1 ¼ 31 - 35 3 . 8 to 4 . 2 [ 2 ] 1 ½ null 36 - 40 4 . 4 to 4 . 8 1 ¾ 41 - 45 5 to 5 . 4 2 [ 3 ] 46 - 50 5 . 6 to 6 51 - 55 6 . 2 to 6 . 6 2 ¼ 56 - 60 6 . 8 to 7 . 2 2 ½ 61 - 65 7 . 4 to 7 . 8 66 - 70 8 null 2 ¾ [ 4 ] 71 - 75 8 null Above 75 8 null [ 1 ] total daily dose by weight category in the tables was rounded to achieve the approximate dose level [ 2 ] may use 2 entire 2 gram packets without weighing or measuring [ 3 ] may use 3 entire 2 gram packets without weighing or measuring [ 4 ] may use 4 entire 2 gram packets without weighing or measuring 2 . 2 Preparation and Administration Preparation Measure the dose using either a scale accurate to at least 0 . 1 gram , or a graduated teaspoon , accurate to the fraction of the dose to be administered .
Once the measured dose has been removed from the XURIDEN packet , discard the unused portion of granules .
Do not use any granules left in the open packet .
Administration with Food • Place 3 to 4 ounces of applesauce , pudding or yogurt in a small clean container .
• Mix the measured amount of granules in the applesauce , pudding or yogurt • Swallow applesauce / pudding / yogurt immediately .
Do not chew the granules .
Do not save the applesauce / pudding / yogurt for later use .
• Drink at least 4 ounces of water .
Administration in Milk or Infant Formula XURIDEN can be mixed with milk or infant formula instead of the soft foods described above for patients receiving up to 3 / 4 teaspoon ( 2 grams ) of XURIDEN .
After weighing the dose of XURIDEN : • Pour 5 mL of milk or infant formula into a 30 mL medicine cup .
• Insert the tip of the oral syringe into the medicine cup and draw up 5 mL of milk / infant formula into the syringe .
• Hold the syringe with the tip pointing upward .
Pull down on the plunger until the plunger reaches 10 mL .
This will add air to the syringe .
• Place the cap over the tip of the syringe .
Then invert the syringe so the syringe tip is pointing down , and remove the plunger .
• Pour the measured amount of XURIDEN granules into the syringe barrel and reinsert the syringe plunger .
Do not push up on the plunger .
• Gently swirl the syringe to mix the XURIDEN granules with the liquid .
• Turn the syringe so the syringe tip is pointing up .
Then remove the syringe cap and push up on the plunger until the plunger reaches the 5 mL mark .
This will remove air from the syringe .
• Place the tip of the syringe in the patient ' s mouth between the cheek and gum at the back of the mouth .
Gently push the plunger all the way down .
• Refill the syringe with another 5 mL of milk / infant formula .
• Gently swirl the syringe to rinse any remaining XURIDEN granules from the syringe barrel .
• Place the tip of the syringe in the patient ' s mouth between the cheek and gum at the back of the mouth .
Gently push the plunger all the way down .
• Follow with a bottle of milk or infant formula , if desired .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Oral granules : 2 grams of orange - flavored oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) in single - use packets Oral granules : 2 gram packets .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS None 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS No adverse reactions were reported in clinical trials with XURIDEN in patients with hereditary orotic aciduria .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation at ( 1 - 800 - 914 - 0071 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions and using a wide range of doses , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of XURIDEN was assessed in 4 patients with hereditary orotic aciduria ranging in age from 3 to 19 years ( 3 male , 1 female ) who received 60 mg / kg of XURIDEN once daily for six weeks .
All patients continued to receive XURIDEN for at least 24 months at dosages of up to 120 mg / kg once daily .
No adverse reactions were reported with XURIDEN .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on XURIDEN use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
When administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis , uridine triacetate at doses similar to the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 120 mg / kg per day was not teratogenic and did not produce adverse effects on embryo - fetal development [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In an embryo - fetal development study , uridine triacetate was administered orally to pregnant rats during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 2000 mg / kg per day ( about 2 . 7 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 120 mg / kg per day on a body surface area basis ) .
There was no evidence of teratogenicity or harm to the fetus and no effect on maternal body weight and overall health .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of uridine triacetate in human milk , the effect on the breastfed infant or the effect on milk production .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for XURIDEN and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from XURIDEN or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of XURIDEN have been established in pediatric patients .
Use of XURIDEN is supported by a single open - label clinical trial of uridine triacetate in 4 patients and a retrospective review of the clinical course of 18 patients with hereditary orotic aciduria who were treated with uridine beginning at ages 2 months to 12 years .
There are no apparent differences in clinical response between adults and pediatric patients with hereditary orotic aciduria treated with uridine , however , data are limited [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of XURIDEN did not include patients 65 years of age and older .
11 DESCRIPTION XURIDEN ( uridine triacetate ) oral granules is a pyrimidine analog indicated for uridine replacement therapy .
Uridine triacetate has the chemical designation ( 2 ' , 3 ' , 5 ' - tri - O - acetyl - β - D - ribofuranosyl ) - 2 , 4 ( 1 H , 3 H ) - pyrimidinedione .
The molecular weight is 370 . 3 and it has an empirical formula of C15H18N2O9 .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each single - use 2 - gram packet of XURIDEN orange - flavored oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) contains 2 grams of uridine triacetate and the following inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose ( 0 . 062 grams ) , Opadry Clear [ proprietary dispersion of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and Macrogol ] ( 0 . 015 grams ) , and natural orange juice flavor ( 0 . 026 grams ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Uridine triacetate is an acetylated form of uridine .
Following oral administration , uridine triacetate is deacetylated by nonspecific esterases present throughout the body , yielding uridine in the circulation ( Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Uridine Triacetate Conversion to Uridine [ MULTIMEDIA ] XURIDEN provides uridine in the systemic circulation of patients with hereditary orotic aciduria who cannot synthesize adequate quantities of uridine due to a genetic defect in uridine nucleotide synthesis .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hereditary orotic aciduria ( uridine monophosphate synthase deficiency ) is a rare congenital autosomal recessive disorder of pyrimidine metabolism caused by a defect in uridine monophosphate synthase ( UMPS ) .
The UMPS gene encodes uridine 5 ′ monophosphate synthase , a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the final two steps of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway in mammalian cells .
The defect in UMP synthase in hereditary orotic aciduria has two primary biochemical consequences .
First , the blockade of de novo UMP synthesis results in a systemic deficiency of pyrimidine nucleotides , accounting for most clinical consequences of the disease .
Second , orotic acid from the de novo pyrimidine pathway that cannot be converted to UMP is excreted in the urine , accounting for the common name of the disorder , orotic aciduria .
Orotic acid crystals in the urine can cause episodes of obstructive uropathy .
XURIDEN delivers uridine into the circulation , where it can be used by essentially all cells to make uridine nucleotides , compensating for the genetic deficiency in synthesis in patients with hereditary orotic aciduria .
When intracellular uridine nucleotides are restored into the normal range , overproduction of orotic acid is reduced by feedback inhibition , so that urinary excretion of orotic acid is also reduced .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption XURIDEN delivers 4 - to 6 - fold more uridine into the systemic circulation compared to equimolar doses of uridine itself .
Maximum concentrations of uridine in plasma following oral XURIDEN are generally achieved within 2 to 3 hours , and the half - life ranges from approximately 2 to 2 . 5 hours .
A study in patients with hereditary orotic aciduria included an assessment of plasma uridine pharmacokinetics in 4 patients .
Three of the patients were previously treated with oral uridine .
On Day 0 ( baseline ) , these three patients received their usual daily dose of oral uridine as a single dose ( 150 to 200 mg / kg once daily ) and on Day 1 , initiated oral XURIDEN treatment ( 60 mg / kg once daily ) .
A fourth patient was enrolled who was naïve to uridine replacement therapy .
The dose of XURIDEN was increased on Day 116 to 120 mg / kg once daily in two patients ( Patients 3 and 4 ) and plasma uridine concentrations were assessed on Day 160 ( 44 days after the dose increase ) .
Plasma uridine levels in all four patients are depicted in Figure 2 .
Pharmacokinetic parameters are summarized in Table 3 .
Mean exposure to plasma uridine as assessed by Cmax and AUC was greater after oral XURIDEN than after oral uridine ( approximately 4 - fold on an equiweight basis , and 6 - fold on an equimolar basis ) , although individual differences in relative bioavailability were noted .
Plasma concentrations of the uridine catabolite uracil were generally below the limit of quantitation in all patients .
Table 3 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Plasma UridinePharmacokinetic Parameters ( Plasma Uridine ) Day 0 ( Baseline ) ( Oral Uridine , 150 to 200 mg / kg once daily ) N = 3 [ 1 ] Day 1 ( Oral XURIDEN , 60 mg / kg once daily ) N = 4 Day 28 ( Oral XURIDEN , 60 mg / kg once daily ) N = 4 Day 160 ( Oral XURIDEN , 120 mg / kg once daily ) N = 2 [ 2 ] Cmax ( µM ) mean ± SD 56 . 0 ± 16 . 6 91 . 3 ± 32 . 2 88 . 7 ± 43 . 2 80 . 9 ± 20 . 0 Tmax ( hours ) median ( range [ 3 ] ) 2 . 0 ( 1 . 0 , 4 . 0 ) 2 . 0 ( 1 . 2 , 2 . 1 ) 1 . 3 ( 1 . 0 , 2 . 5 ) 3 . 0 ( 2 . 0 , 4 . 0 ) t ½ ( hours ) mean ± SD 1 . 6 ± 0 . 7 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 2 . 3 ± 1 . 6 8 . 2 ± 6 . 8 AUC ( 0 - 8 ) ( µM ∙ hr ) mean ± SD 238 . 0 ± 163 . 2 311 . 2 ± 153 . 3 278 . 7 ± 148 . 5 465 . 6 ± 95 . 3 [ 1 ] Data shown are from patients previously treated with oral uridine [ 2 ] The dose of XURIDEN was increased on Day 116 to 120 mg / kg per day .
Serial plasma samples were taken on Day 160 ( 44 days after the dose increase ) for plasma uridine levels .
[ 3 ] Tmax range is expressed as the minimum and maximum values obtained Figure 2 Plasma Uridine Following Oral Administration of Uridine ( Day 0 ) or XURIDEN ( Days 1 , 28 and 160 ) in Patients with Hereditary Orotic Aciduria [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Food Effect on Uridine PK : A study in healthy adult subjects receiving a slightly different formulation of uridine triacetate granules ( 6 gram dose ) under fed and fasted conditions showed no difference in the overall rate and extent of uridine exposure .
Distribution Circulating uridine is taken up into mammalian cells via specific nucleoside transporters , and also crosses the blood brain barrier .
Excretion Uridine can be excreted via the kidneys , but is also metabolized by normal pyrimidine catabolic pathways present in most tissues .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro enzyme inhibition data did not reveal meaningful inhibitory effects of uridine triacetate or uridine on CYP3A4 , CYP1A2 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C19 , CYP2D6 , and CYP2E1 .
In vitro enzyme induction data did not reveal an inducing effect of uridine triacetate or uridine on CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , or CYP3A4 .
In vitro data showed that uridine triacetate was a weak substrate for P - glycoprotein .
Uridine triacetate inhibited the transport of a known P - glycoprotein substrate , digoxin , with an IC50 of 344 µM .
Due to the potential for high local ( gut ) concentrations of the drug after dosing , the interaction of XURIDEN with orally administered P - gp substrate drugs cannot be ruled out .
In vivo data in humans are not available .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of uridine triacetate .
Uridine triacetate was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma assay and the mouse micronucleus test .
Orally administered uridine triacetate did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance in male and female rats at doses up to 2000 mg / kg per day ( about 2 . 7 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 120 mg / kg per day on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of XURIDEN was evaluated in a 6 - week open - label study in 4 patients with hereditary orotic aciduria ( 3 male , 1 female ; age range from 3 to 19 years ) .
Three patients were previously treated with uridine and were switched at study entry to XURIDEN .
All patients were administered XURIDEN orally at a daily dosage of 60 mg / kg once daily .
Following the initial 6 - weeks , all 4 patients continued to receive XURIDEN daily in the extension phase of the study at dosages of 60 to 120 mg / kg for a total duration of 24 months .
The study assessed changes in the patients ' pre - specified hematologic parameters during the initial 6 - week period and the extension phase .
The pre - specified hematologic parameters were : neutrophil count and percent neutrophils ( Patient 1 ) , white blood cell count ( Patient 2 ) , and mean corpuscular volume ( Patients 3 and 4 ) .
For patients switched from oral uridine to oral XURIDEN ( Patients 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , the primary endpoint was stability of the hematologic parameter ; for the treatment - naïve patient ( Patient 4 ) , the primary endpoint was improvement of the hematologic parameter .
Secondary endpoints were urine orotic acid and orotidine levels , and growth ( height and weight ) for all patients .
Table 4 summarizes the changes in the patients ' pre - specified hematologic parameters at Week 6 and 24 Months compared to baseline .
After 6 weeks of treatment , Patients 1 and 3 met the pre - specified criteria for stability of the hematologic parameter .
When Patient 2 was switched from uridine to XURIDEN treatment , the pre - specified parameter of white blood cell count remained stable ; however , documentation of a low white blood cell count prior to uridine initiation was not available .
Patient 4 did not meet the pre - specified endpoint of improvement of the hematologic parameter .
By 24 months of treatment with XURIDEN , the pre - specified hematologic parameter for Patient 1 worsened , but the assessment was confounded by Cohen syndrome with associated neutropenia , which was diagnosed after the patient completed the study .
The pre - specified hematologic parameters for Patients 2 , 3 , and 4 remained essentially unchanged .
Table 4 : Pre - Specified Hematologic Parameters at Baseline , 6 Weeks and 24 Months in XURIDEN - Treated Patients with Hereditary Orotic AciduriaPatient Pre - specified Hematologic Parameter ( Age - specific reference range ) Baseline ( Day 0 ) 6 Weeks ( % Change from Baseline ) 24 Months ( % Change from Baseline ) Patient 1 Neutrophil Count ( 1 . 5 to 8 . 0 x103 / mm3 ) 0 . 95 0 . 81 ( - 15 % ) 0 . 61 ( - 36 % ) Neutrophil % ( 26 to 48 % ) 21 23 ( 10 % ) 13 ( - 38 % ) Patient 2 White Blood Cell Count ( 3 . 8 to 10 . 6 x109 / L ) 7 . 8 7 . 4 ( - 5 % ) 8 . 6 ( 10 % ) Patient 3 Mean Corpuscular Volume ( 75 to 91 fL ) 109 . 9 108 . 5 ( - 1 % ) 108 . 8 ( - 1 % ) Patient 4 Mean Corpuscular Volume ( 72 to 90 fL ) 114 . 6 113 . 4 ( - 1 % ) 112 . 9 ( - 1 . 5 % ) At baseline , Patients 1 , 2 , and 3 , previously treated with uridine , had normal urine orotic acid levels , and those remained stable after 6 weeks of treatment with XURIDEN .
All four patients had normal urine orotidine levels at baseline which remained stable after 6 weeks of treatment with XURIDEN .
After 24 months of treatment , urine orotic acid and orotidine levels remained stable in all four patients .
The treatment effect of XURIDEN on growth was assessed in the three pediatric patients ( Patients 1 , 3 , and 4 ) .
At baseline , weight and height were at or below the lower limit of normal for age for all three patients .
After 24 months of treatment , each patient ' s growth parameters remained essentially unchanged .
Case reports Nineteen ( 19 ) case reports of patients with hereditary orotic aciduria have been documented in published literature .
Eighteen ( 18 ) patients were diagnosed as infants or children between the ages of 2 months and 12 years and were treated with exogenous sources of uridine .
One patient , diagnosed at age 28 , was not treated with exogenous uridine .
All 19 patients presented with significantly elevated levels of urinary orotic acid .
Fifteen of 19 had abnormal hematologic parameters at presentation , including 15 with megaloblastic anemia , 8 with leukopenia and at least 2 with neutropenia .
Oral administration of exogenous sources of uridine was reported to significantly improve hematologic abnormalities ( megaloblastic anemia , leukopenia and neutropenia ) within 2 to 3 weeks in almost all documented cases when administered in sufficient amounts .
Concentrations of urinary orotic acid were significantly reduced within 1 to 2 weeks of initiating uridine replacement therapy .
Some fluctuation in levels of urinary orotic acid were observed , but always at much lower levels than those reported prior to treatment .
Improvements in body weight were also documented over time with continued uridine replacement therapy .
The effects of exogenous uridine were maintained over months and years , as long as treatment continued at sufficient doses ( with appropriate dose increases based on body weight increases ) .
Most hematologic abnormalities and orotic aciduria reappeared within days up to 2 or 3 weeks when administration of uridine was stopped or the dose was reduced .
If treatment was interrupted for longer periods , body weight growth receded .
If absolute dosages were not adjusted adequately to compensate for body weight gains , signs and symptoms of hereditary orotic aciduria recurred .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING XURIDEN orange - flavored oral granules ( 95 % w / w ) are available in single - use packets ( NDC 69468 - 152 - 02 ) containing 2 grams of uridine triacetate in cartons of 30 packets each ( NDC 69468 - 152 - 30 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature , 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) Administration Advise the patient or caregiver : • To measure the prescribed dose using either a scale accurate to at least 0 . 1 gram , or a graduated teaspoon , accurate to the fraction of the dose to be administered .
• To discard the unused portion of granules in a packet after measuring out the dose .
• That XURIDEN can be taken mixed in food ( applesauce , pudding or yogurt ) or mixed in milk or infant formula .
• That the XURIDEN granules should not be chewed .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation Rockville , MD 20850 XURIDEN ® is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
The Wellstat logo is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
© 2015 , 2017 , 2019 Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
All rights reserved .
Instructions for Use XURIDEN ® ( ZUR - uh - den ) ( uridine triacetate ) oral granules Read this Instructions for Use before you prepare XURIDEN for the first time , each time you get a refill , and as needed .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your or your child ' s medical condition or treatment .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about how to mix or give a dose of XURIDEN the right way .
Important Information • Take XURIDEN exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Your healthcare provider will prescribe the dose of XURIDEN depending on your body weight .
Your healthcare provider will tell you the right dose to take .
• Your healthcare provider will show you how to measure the prescribed dose .
The prescribed dose of XURIDEN can be measured using a scale or an adjustable measuring spoon .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose if needed .
Do not change the dose without first talking with your healthcare provider .
• XURIDEN may be taken by mixing XURIDEN with 3 to 4 ounces of applesauce , pudding or yogurt or may be mixed with milk or infant formula .
• XURIDEN mixed with applesauce , pudding or yogurt should be eaten right away .
Do not save the mixed applesauce , pudding or yogurt for later use .
• Do not chew the XURIDEN oral granules .
For each dose of XURIDEN given in applesauce , pudding or yogurt , you will need the following ( See Figure A ) : • paper towels • XURIDEN packet or packets containing the medicine needed for the prescribed dose • 1 scale or 1 adjustable measuring spoon • small spoon for stirring • 1 small clean container ( such as a small cup or bowl ) • 3 to 4 ounces of applesauce , pudding or yogurt • 4 ounces of drinking water Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Choose a clean flat work surface .
Place a clean paper towel on the work surface .
Then place the other supplies on the paper towel .
Step 2 : Wash and dry your hands .
Step 3 : Place 3 to 4 ounces of soft food such as applesauce , pudding , or yogurt in the small clean cup or bowl .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Select the number of XURIDEN packets needed for the prescribed dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Measure the dose : • If you are using a scale : • Open the packet or packets and measure out the amount needed for the prescribed dose on the scale .
Follow the instructions that came with the scale for correct and accurate use .
• If you are using an adjustable measuring spoon : • Open the packet or packets and use the adjustable measuring spoon to measure out the amount needed for the prescribed dose as shown .
• Throw away any unused XURIDEN in the trash .
Do not use any XURIDEN left in the open packet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Sprinkle the XURIDEN onto the soft food .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Use the small spoon to mix the medicine and the applesauce , pudding , or yogurt together .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Use the small spoon to give or take the soft food and XURIDEN mixture .
XURIDEN mixed with soft food should be eaten right away without chewing .
To avoid a bitter taste from the medicine , do not chew the granules .
Make sure all of the mixture is swallowed .
Do not save the food for later use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Drink at least 4 ounces of water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Wash the supplies needed to give the dose as your healthcare provider has told you .
Throw away the paper towel and clean the work surface .
Wash your hands .
For each dose of XURIDEN given in milk or formula to children receiving up to ¾ teaspoon ( 2 grams of XURIDEN ) , you will need the following ( See Figure B ) : • paper towels • XURIDEN packet or packets containing the medicine needed for your prescribed dose • 1 oral dosing syringe ( 10 mL ) with a cap • 1 scale or 1 adjustable measuring spoon • milk or infant formula ( 10 mL ) • 1 medicine cup ( 30 mL ) Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 : Choose a clean flat work surface .
Place a clean paper towel on the work surface .
Then place the other supplies on the paper towel .
• If using infant formula , prepare the formula according to the directions on the infant formula package .
Step 2 : Wash and dry your hands .
Step 3 : Open one XURIDEN packet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Measure the dose : • If you are using a scale : • Open the packet and measure out the amount needed for the prescribed dose on the scale .
Follow the instructions that came with the scale for correct and accurate use .
• If you are using an adjustable measuring spoon : • Open the packet and use the adjustable measuring spoon to measure out the amount needed for the prescribed dose as shown .
• Throw away any unused XURIDEN in the trash .
Do not use any XURIDEN left in the open packet .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Pour 5 mL of either milk or infant formula into the 30 mL medicine cup .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Place the syringe tip into the medicine cup .
Pull up on the plunger until all the liquid is removed from the cup and the plunger reaches the 5 mL line on the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Hold the syringe with the tip pointing upward .
Pull down on the plunger until the plunger reaches the 10 mL line on the syringe .
This will add air to the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Place the syringe cap over the tip of the syringe .
Now hold the syringe so the tip is pointing down and remove the plunger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Pour the measured amount of XURIDEN granules into the syringe barrel , and put the plunger back in .
Do not push further on the plunger .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Gently swirl the syringe to mix the XURIDEN with the liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 : Turn the syringe so the syringe tip is pointing up , then remove the syringe cap , and push up on the plunger until the plunger reaches the 5 mL line on the syringe .
This will remove the air from the syringe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 12 : Give the mixture to the child right away to avoid a bitter taste from the medicine .
Place the tip of the syringe in your child ' s mouth between the cheek and the gum at the back of the mouth .
Gently push the plunger all the way down .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 13 : Pour another 5 mL of milk or formula into the medicine cup .
Step 14 : Refill the syringe by placing the syringe tip into the medicine cup .
Pull up on the plunger until all the liquid is removed from the cup and the plunger reaches the 5 mL line on the syringe .
Step 15 : Gently swirl the syringe to make sure any medicine remaining in the syringe is mixed with the liquid .
Step 16 : Give the liquid to the child right away .
Place the tip of the syringe in your child ' s mouth between the cheek and the gum at the back of the mouth .
Gently push the plunger all the way down .
Step 17 : Give your child a bottle of milk or formula after giving the XURIDEN dose if you wish to .
Step 18 : Remove the plunger from the barrel of the dosing syringe and wash the syringe and mixing cup , with warm water and dish soap .
Rinse with water and air dry .
• Wash the supplies needed to measure your dose as your healthcare provider has told you .
• Throw away the paper towel and clean the work surface .
• Wash your hands .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How should I store XURIDEN ?
• Store XURIDEN at room temperature between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) .
• Keep XURIDEN and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of XURIDEN This Instructions for Use leaflet summarizes the most important information about XURIDEN .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about XURIDEN that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , go to www . XURIDEN . com .
What are the ingredients in XURIDEN ?
Active ingredient : uridine triacetate Inactive ingredients : ethylcellulose , hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , Macrogol , natural orange juice flavor This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for and distributed by Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation , Rockville , MD 20850 USA XURIDEN ® is a registered trademark of Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
© 2015 , 2017 , 2019 Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation .
All rights reserved .
Issued : 9 / 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 g Packet Carton NDC 69468 - 152 - 30 Rx Only Xuriden ® 2 g ( uridine triacetate ) Oral Granules Carton contains 30 x 2 gram packets Wellstat Therapeutics ™ CORPORATION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
