Description FLUXID ™ ( famotidine orally disintegrating tablets ) is a histamine H2 - receptor antagonist .
Famotidine is N ′ - ( aminosulfonyl ) - 3 - [ [ [ 2 - [ ( diaminomethylene ) amino ] - 4 - thiazolyl ] methyl ] thio ] propanimidamide .
The empirical formula of famotidine is C8H15N7O2S3 and its molecular weight is 337 . 45 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Famotidine is a white to pale yellow crystalline compound that is freely soluble in glacial acetic acid , slightly soluble in methanol , very slightly soluble in water , and practically insoluble in ethanol .
Each orally disintegrating tablet contains either 20 mg or 40 mg of famotidine and the following inactive ingredients : citric acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , mannitol , methacrylic acid copolymer , microcrystalline cellulose , natural and artificial cherry flavor , sodium bicarbonate , sucralose and sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS GI Effects Famotidine is a competitive inhibitor of histamine H2 - receptors .
The primary clinically important pharmacologic activity of famotidine is inhibition of gastric secretion .
Both the acid concentration and volume of gastric secretion are suppressed by famotidine , while changes in pepsin secretion are proportional to volume output .
In normal volunteers and hypersecretors , famotidine inhibited basal and nocturnal gastric secretion , as well as secretion stimulated by food and pentagastrin .
After oral administration , the onset of the antisecretory effect occurred within one hour ; the maximum effect was dose - dependent , occurring within one to three hours .
Duration of inhibition of secretion by doses of 20 and 40 mg was 10 to 12 hours .
Single evening oral doses of 20 and 40 mg inhibited basal and nocturnal acid secretion in all subjects ; mean nocturnal gastric acid secretion was inhibited by 86 % and 94 % , respectively , for a period of at least 10 hours .
The same doses given in the morning suppressed food - stimulated acid secretion in all subjects .
The mean suppression was 76 % and 84 % , respectively , 3 to 5 hours after administration , and 25 % and 30 % , respectively , 8 to 10 hours after administration .
In some subjects who received the 20 mg dose , however , the antisecretory effect was dissipated within 6 - 8 hours .
There was no cumulative effect with repeated doses .
The nocturnal intragastric pH was raised by evening doses of 20 and 40 mg of famotidine to mean values of 5 . 0 and 6 . 4 , respectively .
When famotidine was given after breakfast , the basal daytime interdigestive pH at 3 and 8 hours after 20 or 40 mg of famotidine was raised to about 5 .
Famotidine had little or no effect on fasting or postprandial serum gastrin levels .
Gastric emptying and exocrine pancreatic function were not affected by famotidine .
Other Effects Systemic effects of famotidine in the CNS , cardiovascular , respiratory or endocrine systems were not noted in clinical pharmacology studies .
Also , no antiandrogenic effects were noted .
( See ADVERSE REACTIONS . )
Serum hormone levels , including prolactin , cortisol , thyroxine ( T4 ) , and testosterone , were not altered after treatment with famotidine .
Pharmacokinetics Famotidine is incompletely absorbed .
The bioavailability of oral doses is 40 - 45 % .
Bioavailability may be slightly increased by food , or slightly decreased by antacids ; however , these effects are of no clinical consequence .
Famotidine undergoes minimal first - pass metabolism .
The peak plasma concentration is reached about 2 ½ hours after administration of FLUXID ™ .
Plasma levels after multiple doses are similar to those after single doses .
Fifteen to 20 % of famotidine in plasma is protein bound .
The elimination half - life of famotidine is approximately 5 hours after administration of FLUXID ™ .
Famotidine is eliminated by renal ( 65 - 70 % ) and metabolic ( 30 - 35 % ) routes .
Renal clearance is 250 - 450 mL / min , indicating some tubular excretion .
Twenty - five to 30 % of an oral dose and 65 - 70 % of an intravenous dose are recovered in the urine as unchanged compound .
The only metabolite identified in man is the S - oxide .
There is a close relationship between creatinine clearance values and the elimination half - life of famotidine .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency , i . e . , creatinine clearance less than 10 mL / min , the elimination half - life of famotidine may exceed 20 hours and adjustment of dose or dosing intervals in moderate and severe renal insufficiency may be necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS , DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In elderly patients , there are no clinically significant age - related changes in the pharmacokinetics of famotidine .
However , in elderly patients with decreased renal function , the clearance of the drug may be decreased ( see PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use ) .
Clinical Studies Duodenal Ulcer In a U . S . multicenter , double - blind study in outpatients with endoscopically confirmed duodenal ulcer , orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo .
As shown in Table 1 , 70 % of patients treated with famotidine 40 mg h . s . were healed by week 4 .
Table 1 Outpatients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Duodenal Ulcers Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 89 ) Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ( N = 84 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 97 ) Week 2 [ 1 ] 32 % null 38 % 17 % Week 4 null 70 % null 67 % 31 % [ 1 ] Statistically significantly different than placebo ( p < 0 . 001 ) Patients not healed by week 4 were continued in the study .
By week 8 , 83 % of patients treated with famotidine had healed versus 45 % of patients treated with placebo .
The incidence of ulcer healing with famotidine was significantly higher than with placebo at each time point based on proportion of endoscopically confirmed healed ulcers .
In this study , time to relief of daytime and nocturnal pain was significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; patients receiving famotidine also took less antacid than the patients receiving placebo .
Long - Term Maintenance Treatment of Duodenal Ulcers Famotidine , 20 mg p . o . h . s . was compared to placebo h . s . as maintenance therapy in two double - blind , multicenter studies of patients with endoscopically confirmed healed duodenal ulcers .
In the U . S . study , the observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in patients treated with placebo was 2 . 4 times greater than in the patients treated with famotidine .
The 89 patients treated with famotidine had a cumulative observed ulcer incidence of 23 . 4 % compared to an observed ulcer incidence of 56 . 6 % in the 89 patients receiving placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
These results were confirmed in an international study where the cumulative observed ulcer incidence within 12 months in the 307 patients treated with famotidine was 35 . 7 % , compared to an incidence of 75 . 5 % in the 325 patients treated with placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Gastric Ulcer In both a U . S . and an international multicenter , double - blind study in patients with endoscopically confirmed active benign gastric ulcer , orally administered famotidine , 40 mg h . s . , was compared to placebo h . s . Antacids were permitted during the studies , but consumption was not significantly different between the famotidine and placebo groups .
As shown in Table 2 , the incidence of ulcer healing ( dropouts counted as unhealed ) with famotidine was statistically significantly better than placebo at weeks 6 and 8 in the U . S . study , and at weeks 4 , 6 and 8 in the international study , based on the number of ulcers that healed , confirmed by endoscopy .
Table 2 Patients with Endoscopically Confirmed Healed Gastric Ulcers U . S . Study International Study Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 74 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 75 ) Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 149 ) Placebo h . s . ( N = 145 ) Week 4 45 % 39 % [ 1 ] 47 % 31 % Week 6 null 66 % 44 % null 65 % 46 % Week 8 [ 2 ] 78 % 64 % null 80 % 54 % [ 1 ] Statistically significantly better than placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) [ 2 ] Statistically significantly better than placebo ( p < 0 . 05 ) Time to complete relief of daytime and nighttime pain was statistically significantly shorter for patients receiving famotidine than for patients receiving placebo ; however , in neither study was there a statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients whose pain was relieved by the end of the study ( week 8 ) .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) Orally administered famotidine was compared to placebo in a U . S . study that enrolled patients with symptoms of GERD and without endoscopic evidence of erosion or ulceration of the esophagus .
Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . was statistically significantly superior to 40 mg h . s . and to placebo in providing a successful symptomatic outcome , defined as moderate or excellent improvement of symptoms ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 % Successful Symptomatic Outcome Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ( N = 154 ) Famotidine 40 mg h . s . ( N = 149 ) Placebo ( N = 73 ) Week 6 82 [ 1 ] 69 62 [ 1 ] p < 0 . 01 vs Placebo By two weeks of treatment symptomatic success was observed in a greater percentage of patients taking famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . compared to placebo ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Symptomatic improvement and healing of endoscopically verified erosion and ulceration were studied in two additional trials .
Healing was defined as complete resolution of all erosions or ulcerations visible with endoscopy .
The U . S . study comparing famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . to placebo and famotidine 20 mg p . o . b . i . d . showed a significantly greater percentage of healing for famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at weeks 6 and 12 ( Table 4 ) .
Table 4 % Endoscopic Healing – U . S . Study Famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . ( N = 127 ) Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ( N = 125 ) Placebo ( N = 66 ) Week 6 48 [ 1 ] [ 2 ] 32 18 Week 12 69 null [ 3 ] 54 null 29 [ 1 ] p < 0 . 01 vs Placebo [ 2 ] p < 0 . 01 vs famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . [ 3 ] p < 0 . 05 vs famotidine 20 mg b . i . d .
As compared to placebo , patients who received famotidine had faster relief of daytime and nighttime heartburn and a greater percentage of patients experienced complete relief of nighttime heartburn .
These differences were statistically significant .
In the international study , when famotidine 40 mg p . o . b . i . d . , was compared to ranitidine 150 mg p . o . b . i . d . , a statistically significantly greater percentage of healing was observed with famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . at week 12 ( Table 5 ) .
There was , however , no significant difference among treatments in symptom relief .
Table 5 % Endoscopic Healing – International Study Famotidine 40 mg b . i . d . ( N = 175 ) Famotidine 20 mg b . i . d . ( N = 93 ) Ranitidine 150 mg b . i . d . ( N = 172 ) Week 6 48 52 42 Week 12 71 [ 1 ] 68 60 [ 1 ] p < 0 . 05 vs Ranitidine 150 mg b . i . d . Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) In studies of patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions such as Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome with or without multiple endocrine adenomas , famotidine significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion and controlled associated symptoms .
Orally administered doses from 20 to 160 mg q 6 h maintained basal acid secretion below 10 mEq / hr ; initial doses were titrated to the individual patient need and subsequent adjustments were necessary with time in some patients .
Famotidine was well tolerated at these high dose levels for prolonged periods ( greater than 12 months ) in eight patients , and there were no cases reported of gynecomastia , increased prolactin levels , or impotence which were considered to be due to the drug .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS Pharmacokinetics Bioavailability studies of 8 pediatric patients ( 11 - 15 years of age ) showed a mean oral bioavailability of 0 . 5 compared to adult values of 0 . 42 to 0 . 49 .
Oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg achieved an AUC of 580 + 60 ng - hr / mL in pediatric patients 11 - 15 years of age compared to 482 ± 181 ng - hr / mL in adults treated with 40 mg orally .
Pharmacodynamics Pharmacodynamics of famotidine were evaluated in 5 pediatric patients 2 - 13 years of age using the sigmoid Emax model .
These data suggest that the relationship between serum concentration of famotidine and gastric acid suppression is similar to that observed in one study of adults ( Table 6 ) .
Table 6 Pharmacodynamics of famotidine using the sigmoid Emax model EC50 ( ng / mL ) [ 1 ] Pediatric Patients 26 ± 13 Data from one study a ) healthy adult subjects 26 . 5 ± 10 . 3 b ) adult patients with upper GI bleeding 18 . 7 ± 10 . 8 [ 1 ] Serum concentration of famotidine associated with 50 % maximum gastric acid reduction .
Values are presented as means ± SD .
In 4 pediatric patients 11 – 15 years of age given oral famotidine 0 . 5 mg / kg twice daily , gastric pH was greater than 5 for 5 . 0 + 1 . 1 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE FLUXID ™ is indicated in : 1 .
Short term treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
Most adult patients heal within 4 weeks ; there is rarely reason to use famotidine at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety of famotidine in uncomplicated active duodenal ulcer for periods of more than eight weeks .
2 .
Maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients at reduced dosage after healing of an active ulcer .
Controlled studies in adults have not extended beyond one year .
3 .
Short term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
Most adult patients heal within 6 weeks .
Studies have not assessed the safety or efficacy of famotidine in uncomplicated active benign gastric ulcer for periods of more than 8 weeks .
4 .
Short term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) .
FLUXID ™ is indicated for short term treatment of patients with symptoms of GERD ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
FLUXID ™ is also indicated for the short term treatment of esophagitis due to GERD including erosive or ulcerative disease diagnosed by endoscopy ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
5 .
Treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , multiple endocrine adenomas ) ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Cross sensitivity in this class of compounds has been observed .
Therefore , FLUXID ™ should not be administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other H2 - receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONS General Symptomatic response to therapy with famotidine does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , longer intervals between doses or lower doses may need to be used in patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency to adjust for the longer elimination half - life of famotidine ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Information for patients Patients should be instructed not to remove FLUXID ™ Tablets from the bottle until just prior to dosing .
With dry hands , the tablet should be removed from the bottle and immediately placed on the tongue to dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
The tablet typically disintegrates in less than 2 minutes .
Drug interactions No drug interactions have been identified .
Studies with famotidine in man , in animal models , and in vitro have shown no significant interference with the disposition of compounds metabolized by the hepatic microsomal enzymes , e . g . , cytochrome P450 system .
Compounds tested in man include warfarin , theophylline , phenytoin , diazepam , aminopyrine and antipyrine .
Indocyanine green as an index of hepatic drug extraction has been tested and no significant effects have been found .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility In a 106 week study in rats and a 92 week study in mice given oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 405 times in rats , and 203 times in mice , the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) , there was no evidence of carcinogenic potential for famotidine .
Famotidine was negative in the Ames test , the mouse micronucleus test and the mouse chromosomal aberration test .
In studies with rats given oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( approximately 405 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) , fertility and reproductive performance were not affected .
Pregnancy .
Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Reproductive studies have been performed at oral doses of up to 2000 mg / kg / day in rat ( approximately 405 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) and 500 mg / kg / day in rabbit ( approximately 203 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) , and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to famotidine .
There are , however , no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers Famotidine is detectable in human milk .
Transient growth depression was observed in young rats suckling from mothers treated with famotidine .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from famotidine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Patients 6 - 16 years of age Use of famotidine in pediatric patients 6 - 16 years of age is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of famotidine in adults , and by the following studies in pediatric patients : In published studies in small numbers of pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age , clearance of famotidine was similar to that seen in adults .
In pediatric patients 11 - 15 years of age , oral doses of 0 . 5 mg / kg were associated with a mean area under the curve ( AUC ) similar to that seen in adults treated orally with 40 mg .
Limited published studies also suggest that the relationship between serum concentration and acid suppression is similar in pediatric patients 1 - 15 years of age as compared with adults .
These studies suggest a starting dose for pediatric patients 6 - 16 years of age as follows : Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations - 1 . 0 mg / kg / day p . o . divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg b . i . d .
While published uncontrolled studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or pH determination ( gastric or esophageal ) and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled clinical studies in pediatric patients have employed doses up to 2 mg / kg / day for GERD with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations .
Geriatric use Of the 4 , 966 subjects in clinical studies who were treated with famotidine , 488 subjects ( 9 . 8 % ) were 65 and older , and 88 subjects ( 1 . 7 % ) were greater than 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment is required based on age ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Pharmacokinetics ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Dosage adjustment in the case of moderate or severe renal impairment is necessary ( see PRECAUTIONS , Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions listed below have been reported during domestic and international clinical trials in approximately 2500 patients .
In those controlled clinical trials in which famotidine tablets were compared to placebo , the incidence of adverse experiences in the group which received famotidine tablets , 40 mg at bedtime , was similar to that in the placebo group .
The following adverse reactions have been reported to occur in more than 1 % of patients on therapy with famotidine in controlled clinical trials , and may be causally related to the drug : headache ( 4 . 7 % ) , dizziness ( 1 . 3 % ) , constipation ( 1 . 2 % ) and diarrhea ( 1 . 7 % ) .
The following other adverse reactions have been reported infrequently in clinical trials or since the drug was marketed .
The relationship to therapy with famotidine has been unclear in many cases .
Within each category the adverse reactions are listed in order of decreasing severity : Body as a Whole : fever , asthenia , fatigue Cardiovascular : arrhythmia , AV block , palpitation Gastrointestinal : cholestatic jaundice , liver enzyme abnormalities , vomiting , nausea , abdominal discomfort , anorexia , dry mouth Hematologic : rare cases of agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , angioedema , orbital or facial edema , urticaria , rash , conjunctival injection Musculoskeletal : musculoskeletal pain including muscle cramps , arthralgia Nervous System / Psychiatric : grand mal seizure ; psychic disturbances , which were reversible in cases for which follow - up was obtained , including hallucinations , confusion , agitation , depression , anxiety , decreased libido ; paresthesia ; insomnia ; somnolence Respiratory : bronchospasm Skin : toxic epidermal necrolysis ( very rare ) , alopecia , acne , pruritus , dry skin , flushing Special Senses : tinnitus , taste disorder Other : rare cases of impotence and rare cases of gynecomastia have been reported ; however , in controlled clinical trials , the incidences were not greater than those seen with placebo .
The adverse experience profile seen with FLUXID ™ was similar to that seen with famotidine tablets .
OVERDOSAGE There is no experience to date with deliberate overdosage .
Oral doses of up to 640 mg / day have been given to adult patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions with no serious adverse effects .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Unabsorbed material should be removed from the gastrointestinal tract , the patient should be monitored , and supportive therapy should be employed .
Single oral doses of up to 3000 mg / kg in rats and mice and 2000 mg / kg in dogs were not lethal .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instructions for Use / Handling FLUXID ™ Tablets Just prior to administration , remove the tablet from the bottle with dry hands .
Immediately place the FLUXID ™ Tablet on top of the tongue , wait until it dissolves , then swallow with saliva .
The tablet typically disintegrates in less than 2 minutes .
Administration with liquid is not necessary .
Duodenal Ulcer Acute Therapy The recommended adult oral dosage for active duodenal ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime .
Most patients heal within 4 weeks ; there is rarely reason to use famotidine at full dosage for longer than 6 to 8 weeks .
A regimen of 20 mg b . i . d . is also effective Maintenance Therapy The recommended adult oral dose is 20 mg once a day at bedtime .
Benign Gastric Ulcer Acute Therapy The recommended adult oral dosage for active benign gastric ulcer is 40 mg once a day at bedtime .
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) The recommended oral dosage for treatment of adult patients with symptoms of GERD is 20 mg b . i . d . for up to 6 weeks .
The recommended oral dosage for the treatment of adult patients with esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations and accompanying symptoms due to GERD is 20 or 40 mg b . i . d . for up to 12 weeks ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY IN ADULTS , Clinical Studies ) .
Dosage for Pediatric Patients 6 - 16 years of age See PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Patients 6 - 16 years of age .
The studies described in PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Patients 6 - 16 years of age suggest the following starting doses in pediatric patients 6 - 16 years of age : Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations - 1 . 0 mg / kg / day p . o . divided b . i . d . up to 40 mg b . i . d . Tablet should not be broken .
While published uncontrolled studies suggest effectiveness of famotidine in the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease , data in pediatric patients are insufficient to establish percent response with dose and duration of therapy .
Therefore , treatment duration ( initially based on adult duration recommendations ) and dose should be individualized based on clinical response and / or pH determination ( gastric or esophageal ) and endoscopy .
Published uncontrolled clinical studies in pediatric patients 1 - 16 years of age have employed doses up to 2 mg / kg / day for GERD with or without esophagitis including erosions and ulcerations .
Pathological Hypersecretory Conditions ( e . g . , Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome , Multiple Endocrine Adenomas ) The dosage of famotidine in patients with pathological hypersecretory conditions varies with the individual patient .
The recommended adult oral starting dose for pathological hypersecretory conditions is 20 mg q 6 h .
In some patients , a higher starting dose may be required .
Doses should be adjusted to individual patient needs and should continue as long as clinically indicated .
Doses up to 160 mg q 6 h have been administered to some adult patients with severe Zollinger - Ellison Syndrome .
Concomitant Use of Antacids Antacids may be given concomitantly if needed .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Moderate or Severe Renal Insufficiency In adult patients with moderate ( creatinine clearance < 50 mL / min ) or severe ( creatinine clearance < 10 mL / min ) renal insufficiency , the elimination half - life of famotidine is increased .
For patients with severe renal insufficiency , it may exceed 20 hours , reaching approximately 24 hours in anuric patients .
Since CNS adverse effects have been reported in patients with moderate and severe renal insufficiency , to avoid excess accumulation of the drug in patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency , the dose of FLUXID ™ may be reduced to half the dose or the dosing interval may be prolonged to 36 - 48 hours as indicated by the patient ’ s clinical response .
Based on the comparison of pharmacokinetic parameters for famotidine in adults and pediatric patients , dosage adjustment in pediatric patients with moderate or severe renal insufficiency should be considered .
HOW SUPPLIED FLUXID ™ ( famotidine orally disintegrating tablets ) 20 mg are white , round , biconvex , cherry - flavored and engraved “ SP371 ” on one side and “ 20 ” on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 ( unit - of - use ) NDC 0091 - 3371 - 32 Bottles of 100 NDC 0091 - 3371 - 01 FLUXID ™ ( famotidine orally disintegrating tablets ) 40 mg are white , round , biconvex , cherry - flavored and engraved “ SP372 ” on one side and “ 40 ” on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 30 ( unit - of - use ) NDC 0091 - 3372 - 32 Bottles of 100 NDC 0091 - 3372 - 01 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP / NF .
Manufactured for : Schwarz PharmaMilwaukee , WI 53201 , USA By : CIMA LABS INC . ® Eden Prairie , MN 55344 , USA FLUXID ™ uses CIMA ® U . S . Patent Nos . 6 , 024 , 981 and 6 , 221 , 392 .
