This is a hand sanitizer manufactured per guidance outlined in the final ruling of 21 CFR Part 310 - Safety and Effectiveness of Consumer Antiseptic Rubs ; Topical Antimicrobial Drug Products for Over - the - Counter Human Use .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % v / v ) .
• Glycerin 98 % ( 0 . 01 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide 3 % ( 0 . 04 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water ( 18 . 95 % v / v ) .
• PEG - 10 Dimethicone ( 1 % v / v ) .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 80 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Uses Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients Purified water USP , PEG - 10 dimethicone , hydrogen peroxide , glycerin Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
