Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hexylresorcinol 0 . 1 % Purpose First aid antiseptic Uses First aid to help prevent bacterial contamination or skin infection associated with minor : • cuts • scrapes • burns • abrasions Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition or symptoms get worse or last more than one week • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • For first aid antiseptic use in adults and children 2 years of age and older : • clean the affected area • pump a small amount of the product on the affected area 1 to 3 times daily • wipe off excess with sterile gauze • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first • For minor wound cleansing in adults and children 2 years of age and older : • to clean dirt and debris , pump a small amount of the product on the affected area and wipe off with sterile gauze • Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • Store at room temperature 59 ° – 86 ° F ( 15 ° – 30 ° C ) .
• See carton or bottle for lot number and expiration date .
Inactive ingredients citric acid , edetate disodium , glycerin , propylene glycol , sodium bisulfite , sodium citrate , purified water Questions ?
Call 1 - 877 - 745 - 6888 or visit www . myxcin - c . com Distributed by : Phoenix Global Supply Group , Inc .
White Plains , NY 10604 USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 236 . 5 mL Bottle Carton New !
MYXCIN ™ - C with S . T . 37 ® Hexylresorcinol 0 . 1 % FIRST AID ANTISEPTIC WOUND CLEANING SOLUTION For Cuts , Scrapes Abrasions , Burns Pressure Cleansing Pump • Soothing Relief • No Stinging • No Staining • Kills Germs on Contact ADVANCED WOUND MANAGEMENT ™ 8 FL OZ ( 236 . 5 mL ) plus 1 dispensing pump [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
