Rx only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE DESCRIPTION : Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is for topical use .
Each gram of Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) contains 7 . 7 mg of ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) in a water miscible lotion base consisting of purified water USP , cocamide DEA , octyldodecanol NF , mineral oil USP , stearyl alcohol NF , cetyl alcohol NF , polysorbate 60 NF , myristyl alcohol NF , sorbitan monostearate NF , lactic acid USP , and benzyl alcohol NF ( 1 % ) as a preservative .
Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) contains a synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) .
The chemical name is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , 2 - aminoethanol salt .
The CAS Registry Number is 41621 - 49 - 2 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) has a pH of 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Ciclopirox is a broad - spectrum , antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic dermatophytes , yeasts , and Malassezia furfur .
Ciclopirox exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against isolates of Trichophytonrubrum , Trichophytonmentagrophytes , Epidermophytonfloccosum , Microsporumcanis , and Candida albicans .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with radiolabeled ciclopirox solution in polyethylene glycol 400 , showed an average of 1 . 3 % absorption of the dose when it was applied topically to 750 cm2 on the back followed by occlusion for 6 hours .
The biological half - life was 1 . 7 hours and excretion occurred via the kidney .
Two days after application only 0 . 01 % of the dose applied could be found in the urine .
Fecal excretion was negligible .
Autoradiographic studies with human cadaver skin showed that ciclopirox penetrates into the hair and through the epidermis and hair follicles into the sebaceous glands and dermis , while a portion of the drug remains in the stratum corneum .
In vitro penetration studies in frozen or fresh excised human cadaver and pig skin indicated that the penetration of Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is equivalent to that of Ciclopirox Cream 0 . 77 % .
Therapeutic equivalence of cream and lotion formulations also was indicated by studies of experimentally induced guinea pig and human trichophytosis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophytonrubrum , Trichophytonmentagrophytes , Epidermophytonfloccosum , and Microsporumcanis ; cutaneous candidiasis ( moniliasis ) due to Candida albicans ; and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor due to Malassezia furfur .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS : General : Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS : If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients The patient should be told to : • 1 .
Use the medication for the full treatment time even though signs / symptoms may have improved and notify the physician if there is no improvement after four weeks .
• 2 .
Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , oozing ) indicative of possible sensitization .
• 3 .
Avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : A carcinogenicity study in female mice dosed cutaneously twice per week for 50 weeks followed by a 6 - month drug free observation period prior to necropsy revealed no evidence of tumors at the application site .
The following in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox olamine : studies to evaluate gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella I Mammalian Microsome Assay ( negative ) and Yeast Saccharomyces Cerevisiae Assay ( negative ) ; and studies to evaluate chromosome aberrations in vivo in the Mouse Dominant Lethal Assay , and in the Mouse Micronucleus Assay at 500 mg / kg ( negative ) .
The following battery of in vitro genotoxicity tests were conducted with ciclopirox : a chromosome aberration assay in V79 Chinese Hamster Cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; a gene mutation assay in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese Hamster Cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA Synthesis Assay in A549 Human Cells ( negative ) ) .
An in vitro Cell Transformation Assay in BALB / C3T3 Cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese Hamster Bone Marrow Cytogenetic Assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at 5000 mg / kg .
Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in the mouse , rat , rabbit , and monkey , via various routes of administration , at doses 10 times or more the topical human dose and have revealed no significant evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ciclopirox .
There are , however , no adequate or well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 10 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : In the controlled clinical trial with 89 patients using Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) and 89 patients using the lotion vehicle , the incidence of adverse reactions was low .
Those considered possibly related to treatment or occurring in more than one patient were pruritus , which occurred in two patients using Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) and one patient using the lotion vehicle ; and burning , which occurred in one patient using Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Gently massage Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice daily , in the morning and evening .
Clinical improvement with relief of pruritus and other symptoms usually occurs within the first week of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after four weeks of treatment with Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIED : Ciclopirox Topical Suspension USP , 0 . 77 % ( Lotion ) is supplied in : • 30 mL bottles ( NDC 0168 - 0314 - 30 ) 60 mL bottles ( NDC 0168 - 0314 - 60 ) Bottle space provided to allow for vigorous shaking before each use .
Store between 5 ° - 25 ° C ( 41 ° - 77 ° F ) .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera PHARMACEUTICAL INC .
Melville , New York 11747 I2314C / IF2314C R08 / 14 # 218 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 ML CONTAINER NDC 0168 - 0314 - 30 Fougera ® CICLOPIROX TOPICAL SUSPENSION USP 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( LOTION ) Rx Only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Keep out of reach of children .
Bottle space provided to allow for vigorous shaking before each use .
30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 30 ML CARTON NDC 0168 - 0314 - 30 Fougera ® CICLOPIROX TOPICAL SUSPENSION , USP 0 . 77 % ( w / w ) ( LOTION ) Rx Only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Keep out of reach of children .
Bottle space provided to allow for vigorous shaking before each use .
30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
