Indications and Usage ( 1 ) 03 / 2007 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) 03 / 2007 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Zolpidem tartrate tablets are indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The clinical trials performed in support of efficacy were 4 - 5 weeks in duration with the final formal assessments of sleep latency performed at the end of treatment .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are indicated for the short - term treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets have been shown to decrease sleep latency for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Adult dose : 10 mg immediately before bedtime ( 2 . 1 ) • Elderly / Debilitated patients / Hepatic Impairment : Initial dose of 5 mg ( 2 . 2 ) • Downward dosage adjustment may be necessary when used with CNS depressants ( 2 . 3 ) • Total daily dose should not exceed 10 mg ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Dosage in adults The dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets should be individualized .
The recommended dose for adults is 10 mg immediately before bedtime .
2 . 2 Special Populations Elderly or debilitated patients may be especially sensitive to the effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Patients with hepatic insufficiency do not clear the drug as rapidly as normals .
An initial 5 mg dose is recommended in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
2 . 3 Administration with CNS depressants Downward dosage adjustment may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are administered with agents having known CNS - depressant effects because of the potentially additive effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
2 . 4 Maximum daily dose The total zolpidem tartrate tablet dose should not exceed 10 mg per day .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Zolpidem tartrate tablets are available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets 5 mg are pink , round , film - coated , debossed with " ZIM " on one side and " 5 " on the other side .
The 10 mg tablets are white , round , film - coated , debossed with " ZIM " on one side and " 10 " on the other side .
Tablets are not scored .
5 mg and 10 mg tablets ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or inactive ingredients ( 4 . 1 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity Zolpidem tartrate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to zolpidem tartrate or to any of the inactive ingredients in the formulation .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Reevaluate if insomnia persists after 7 to 10 days of use ( 5 . 1 ) • Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions have been reported ( 5 . 2 ) • Abnormal thinking , behavior changes and complex behaviors such as sleep - driving have been reported ( 5 . 3 ) • Pediatric patients with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) : Hallucinations ( 7 . 4 % ) and other psychiatric and / or nervous system adverse events were observed frequently ( 5 . 6 , 8 . 4 ) • Depression : Worsening of depression or , suicidal thinking may occur .
Prescribe the least amount feasible to avoid intentional overdose ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 6 ) • Withdrawal symptoms may occur with rapid dose reduction or discontinuation ( 5 . 4 ) • CNS depressant effects , additive effects with CNS depressants ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 5 ) • Potential impairment of activities requiring complete mental alertness such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle , after ingesting the drug and the following day ( 5 . 5 ) • Additive effects with alcohol ; should not be taken with alcohol ( 5 . 5 ) • Elderly / debilitated patients : Impaired motor , cognitive performance after repeated exposure , increased sensitivity ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 6 ) • Caution advised in patients with hepatic impairment , mild to moderate COPD , impaired drug metabolism or hemodynamic responses , mild to moderate sleep apnea ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 General Because sleep disturbances may be the presenting manifestation of a physical and / or psychiatric disorder , symptomatic treatment of insomnia should be initiated only after a careful evaluation of the patient .
The failure of insomnia to remit after 7 to 10 days of treatment may indicate the presence of a primary psychiatric and / or medical illness that should be evaluated .
Worsening of insomnia or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities may be the consequence of an unrecognized psychiatric or physical disorder .
Such findings have emerged during the course of treatment with sedative / hypnotic drugs , including zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Because some of the important adverse effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets appear to be dose related [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] , it is important to use the smallest possible effective dose , especially in the elderly .
5 . 2 Severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions Rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue , glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative - hypnotics , including zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea , throat closing or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis .
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department .
If angioedema involves the throat , glottis or larynx , airway obstruction may occur and be fatal .
Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with zolpidem tartrate tablets should not be rechallenged with the drug .
5 . 3 Abnormal Thinking and Behavioral Changes A variety of abnormal thinking and behavior changes have been reported to occur in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
Some of these changes may be characterized by decreased inhibition ( eg , aggressiveness and extroversion that seemed out of character ) , similar to effects produced by alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Visual and auditory hallucinations have been reported as well as behavioral changes such as bizarre behavior , agitation and depersonalization .
In controlled trials , < 1 % of adults with insomnia who received zolpidem reported hallucinations .
In a clinical trial , 7 . 4 % of pediatric patients with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , who received zolpidem reported hallucinations .
Complex behaviors such as " sleep - driving " ( i . e . , driving while not fully awake after ingestion of a sedative - hypnotic , with amnesia for the event ) have been reported .
These events can occur in sedative - hypnotic - naive as well as in sedative - hypnotic - experienced persons .
Although behaviors such as " sleep - driving " may occur with zolpidem tartrate tablets alone at therapeutic doses , the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants with zolpidem tartrate tablets appears to increase the risk of such behaviors , as does the use of zolpidem tartrate tablets at doses exceeding the maximum recommended dose .
Due to the risk to the patient and the community , discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate tablets should be strongly considered for patients who report a " sleep - driving " episode .
Other complex behaviors ( e . g . , preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex ) have been reported in patients who are not fully awake after taking a sedative - hypnotic .
As with " sleep - driving " , patients usually do not remember these events .
Amnesia , anxiety and other neuro - psychiatric symptoms may occur unpredictably .
In primarily depressed patients , worsening of depression , including suicidal thinking , has been reported in association with the use of sedative / hypnotics .
It can rarely be determined with certainty whether a particular instance of the abnormal behaviors listed above is drug induced , spontaneous in origin , or a result of an underlying psychiatric or physical disorder .
Nonetheless , the emergence of any new behavioral sign or symptom of concern requires careful and immediate evaluation .
5 . 4 Withdrawal effects Following the rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuation of sedative / hypnotics , there have been reports of signs and symptoms similar to those associated with withdrawal from other CNS - depressant drugs [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
5 . 5 CNS depressant effects Zolpidem tartrate tablets , like other sedative / hypnotic drugs , have CNS - depressant effects .
Due to the rapid onset of action , zolpidem tartrate tablets should only be ingested immediately prior to going to bed .
Patients should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness or motor coordination such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after ingesting the drug , including potential impairment of the performance of such activities that may occur the day following ingestion of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets showed additive effects when combined with alcohol and should not be taken with alcohol .
Patients should also be cautioned about possible combined effects with other CNS - depressant drugs .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary when zolpidem tartrate tablets are administered with such agents because of the potentially additive effects .
5 . 6 Special Populations Use in the elderly and / or debilitated patients : Impaired motor and / or cognitive performance after repeated exposure or unusual sensitivity to sedative / hypnotic drugs is a concern in the treatment of elderly and / or debilitated patients .
Therefore , the recommended zolpidem tartrate tablets dosage is 5 mg in such patients [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] to decrease the possibility of side effects .
These patients should be closely monitored .
Use in patients with concomitant illness : Clinical experience with zolpidem tartrate tablets in patients with concomitant systemic illness is limited .
Caution is advisable in using zolpidem tartrate tablets in patients with diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses .
Although studies did not reveal respiratory depressant effects at hypnotic doses of zolpidem tartrate tablets in normals or in patients with mild to moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , a reduction in the Total Arousal Index together with a reduction in lowest oxygen saturation and increase in the times of oxygen desaturation below 80 % and 90 % was observed in patients with mild - to - moderate sleep apnea when treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets ( 10 mg ) when compared to placebo .
However , precautions should be observed if zolpidem tartrate tablets are prescribed to patients with compromised respiratory function , since sedative / hypnotics have the capacity to depress respiratory drive .
Post - marketing reports of respiratory insufficiency , most of which involved patients with pre - existing respiratory impairment , have been received .
Data in end - stage renal failure patients repeatedly treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets did not demonstrate drug accumulation or alterations in pharmacokinetic parameters .
No dosage adjustment in renally impaired patients is required ; however , these patients should be closely monitored [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
A study in subjects with hepatic impairment did reveal prolonged elimination in this group ; therefore , treatment should be initiated with 5 mg in patients with hepatic compromise , and they should be closely monitored .
Use in depression : As with other sedative / hypnotic drugs , zolpidem tartrate tablets should be administered with caution to patients exhibiting signs or symptoms of depression .
Suicidal tendencies may be present in such patients and protective measures may be required .
Intentional over - dosage is more common in this group of patients ; therefore , the least amount of drug that is feasible should be prescribed for the patient at any one time .
Pediatric patients : Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem has not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week study in pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with ADHD , zolpidem did not decrease sleep latency compared to placebo .
Hallucinations were reported in 7 . 4 % of the pediatric patients who received zolpidem ; none of the pediatric patients who received placebo reported hallucinations [ see Use in Specific Populations : Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 7 Laboratory tests Monitoring : There are no specific laboratory tests recommended to monitor zolpidem levels .
Interference with laboratory tests : Zolpidem is not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
In addition , clinical data indicate that zolpidem does not cross - react with benzodiazepines , opiates , barbiturates , cocaine , cannabinoids , or amphetamines in two standard urine drug screens .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious adverse reactions including severe anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions , abnormal thinking and behavior , complex behaviors , withdrawal effects , amnesia , anxiety , other neuro - psychiatric symptoms and CNS - depressant effects have been reported with zolpidem [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
• Most commonly observed adverse events in studies with zolpidem ( up to 10 mg ) at statistically significant differences from placebo were : Short - term ( < 10 nights ) : Drowsiness , dizziness , and diarrhea Long - term ( 28 - 35 nights ) : Dizziness and drugged feelings ( 6 . 1 ) • Dose relationship observed for adverse events especially CNS and GI events ( 6 . 1 ) • Other adverse reactions , including serious adverse reactions , have been reported ( 6 ) 6 . 1 Incidence in controlled clinical trials Associated with discontinuation of treatment : Approximately 4 % of 1 , 701 patients who received zolpidem at all doses ( 1 . 25 to 90 mg ) in U . S . premarketing clinical trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse clinical event .
Events most commonly associated with discontinuation from U . S . trials were daytime drowsiness ( 0 . 5 % ) , dizziness ( 0 . 4 % ) , headache ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 6 % ) , and vomiting ( 0 . 5 % ) .
Approximately 4 % of 1 , 959 patients who received zolpidem at all doses ( 1 to 50 mg ) in similar foreign trials discontinued treatment because of an adverse event .
Events most commonly associated with discontinuation from these trials were daytime drowsiness ( 1 . 1 % ) , dizziness / vertigo ( 0 . 8 % ) , amnesia ( 0 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 0 . 5 % ) , headache ( 0 . 4 % ) , and falls ( 0 . 4 % ) .
Data from a clinical study in which selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor - ( SSRI ) treated patients were given zolpidem revealed that four of the seven discontinuations during double - blind treatment with zolpidem ( n = 95 ) were associated with impaired concentration , continuing or aggravated depression , and manic reaction ; one patient treated with placebo ( n = 97 ) was discontinued after an attempted suicide .
Most commonly observed adverse events in controlled trials : During short - term treatment ( up to 10 nights ) with zolpidem tartrate tablets at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse events associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were drowsiness ( reported by 2 % of zolpidem patients ) , dizziness ( 1 % ) , and diarrhea ( 1 % ) .
During longer - term treatment ( 28 to 35 nights ) with zolpidem at doses up to 10 mg , the most commonly observed adverse events associated with the use of zolpidem and seen at statistically significant differences from placebo - treated patients were dizziness ( 5 % ) and drugged feelings ( 3 % ) .
Adverse events observed at an incidence of ≥ 1 % in controlled trials : The following tables enumerate treatment - emergent adverse event frequencies that were observed at an incidence equal to 1 % or greater among patients with insomnia who received zolpidem tartrate tablets in U . S . placebo - controlled trials .
Events reported by investigators were classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms for the purpose of establishing event frequencies .
The prescriber should be aware that these figures cannot be used to predict the incidence of side effects in the course of usual medical practice , in which patient characteristics and other factors differ from those that prevailed in these clinical trials .
Similarly , the cited frequencies cannot be compared with figures obtained from other clinical investigators involving related drug products and uses , since each group of drug trials is conducted under a different set of conditions .
However , the cited figures provide the physician with a basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the incidence of side effects in the population studied .
The following table was derived from a pool of 11 placebo - controlled short - term U . S . efficacy trials involving zolpidem in doses ranging from 1 . 25 to 20 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Short - term Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials ( Percentage of patients reporting ) Body System / Adverse Event [ 1 ] Zolpidem ( ≤ 10 mg ) ( N = 685 ) Placebo ( N = 473 ) Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 7 6 Drowsiness 2 – Dizziness 1 – Gastrointestinal System Nausea 2 3 Diarrhea 1 - Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 1 2 [ 1 ] Events reported by at least 1 % of zolpidem tartrate tablets patients are included The following table was derived from a pool of three placebo - controlled long - term efficacy trials involving zolpidem tartrate tablets .
These trials involved patients with chronic insomnia who were treated for 28 to 35 nights with zolpidem at doses of 5 , 10 , or 15 mg .
The table is limited to data from doses up to and including 10 mg , the highest dose recommended for use .
The table includes only adverse events occurring at an incidence of at least 1 % for zolpidem patients .
Incidence of Treatment - Emergent Adverse Experiences in Long - term Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials ( Percentage of patients reporting ) Body System / Adverse Event [ 1 ] Zolpidem ( ≤ 10 mg ) ( N = 152 ) Placebo ( N = 161 ) Autonomic Nervous System Dry mouth 3 1 Body as a Whole Allergy 4 1 Back Pain 3 2 Influenza - like symptoms 2 - Chest pain 1 - Fatigue 1 2 Cardiovascular System Palpitation 2 - Central and Peripheral Nervous System Headache 19 22 Drowsiness 8 5 Dizziness 5 1 Lethargy 3 1 Drugged feeling 3 - Lightheadedness 2 1 Depression 2 1 Abnormal dreams 1 - Amnesia 1 - Anxiety 1 1 Nervousness 1 3 Sleep disorder 1 - Gastrointestinal System Nausea 6 6 Dyspepsia 5 6 Diarrhea 3 2 Abdominal pain 2 2 Constipation 2 1 Anorexia 1 1 Vomiting 1 1 Immunologic System Infection 1 1 Musculoskeletal System Myalgia 7 7 Arthralgia 4 4 Respiratory System Upper respiratory infection 5 6 Sinusitis 4 2 Pharyngitis 3 1 Rhinitis 1 3 Skin and Appendages Rash 2 1 Urogenital System Urinary tract infection 2 2 [ 1 ] Events reported by at least 1 % of patients treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Dose relationship for adverse events : There is evidence from dose comparison trials suggesting a dose relationship for many of the adverse events associated with zolpidem use , particularly for certain CNS and gastrointestinal adverse events .
Adverse event incidence across the entire preapproval database : zolpidem tartrate tablets were administered to 3 , 660 subjects in clinical trials throughout the U . S . , Canada , and Europe .
Treatment - emergent adverse events associated with clinical trial participation were recorded by clinical investigators using terminology of their own choosing .
To provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing treatment - emergent adverse events , similar types of untoward events were grouped into a smaller number of standardized event categories and classified utilizing a modified World Health Organization ( WHO ) dictionary of preferred terms .
The frequencies presented , therefore , represent the proportions of the 3 , 660 individuals exposed to zolpidem , at all doses , who experienced an event of the type cited on at least one occasion while receiving zolpidem .
All reported treatment - emergent adverse events are included , except those already listed in the table above of adverse events in placebo - controlled studies , those coding terms that are so general as to be uninformative , and those events where a drug cause was remote .
It is important to emphasize that , although the events reported did occur during treatment with zolpidem tartrate tablets , they were not necessarily caused by it .
Adverse events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in greater than 1 / 100 subjects ; infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients ; rare events are those occurring in less than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Autonomic nervous system : Infrequent : increased sweating , pallor , postural hypotension , syncope .
Rare : abnormal accommodation , altered saliva , flushing , glaucoma , hypotension , impotence , increased saliva , tenesmus .
Body as a whole : Frequent : asthenia .
Infrequent : edema , falling , fever , malaise , trauma .
Rare : allergic reaction , allergy aggravated , anaphylactic shock , face edema , hot flashes , increased ESR , pain , restless legs , rigors , tolerance increased , weight decrease .
Cardiovascular system : Infrequent : cerebrovascular disorder , hypertension , tachycardia .
Rare : angina pectoris , arrhythmia , arteritis , circulatory failure , extrasystoles , hypertension aggravated , myocardial infarction , phlebitis , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary edema , varicose veins , ventricular tachycardia .
Central and peripheral nervous system : Frequent : ataxia , confusion , euphoria , insomnia , vertigo .
Infrequent : agitation , decreased cognition , detached , difficulty concentrating , dysarthria , emotional lability , hallucination , hypoesthesia , illusion , leg cramps , migraine , paresthesia , sleeping ( after daytime dosing ) , speech disorder , stupor , tremor .
Rare : abnormal gait , abnormal thinking , aggressive reaction , apathy , appetite increased , decreased libido , delusion , dementia , depersonalization , dysphasia , feeling strange , hypokinesia , hypotonia , hysteria , intoxicated feeling , manic reaction , neuralgia , neuritis , neuropathy , neurosis , panic attacks , paresis , personality disorder , somnambulism , suicide attempts , tetany , yawning .
Gastrointestinal system : Frequent : hiccup .
Infrequent : constipation , dysphagia , flatulence , gastroenteritis .
Rare : enteritis , eructation , esophagospasm , gastritis , hemorrhoids , intestinal obstruction , rectal hemorrhage , tooth caries .
Hematologic and lymphatic system : Rare : anemia , hyperhemoglo - binemia , leukopenia , lymphadenopathy , macrocytic anemia , purpura , thrombosis .
Immunologic system : Rare : abscess herpes simplex herpes zoster , otitis externa , otitis media .
Liver and biliary system : Infrequent : abnormal hepatic function , increased SGPT .
Rare : bilirubinemia , increased SGOT .
Metabolic and nutritional : Infrequent : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Rare : gout , hypercholesteremia , hyperlipidemia , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased BUN , periorbital edema .
Musculoskeletal system : Infrequent : arthritis .
Rare : arthrosis , muscle weakness , sciatica , tendinitis .
Reproductive system : Infrequent : menstrual disorder , vaginitis .
Rare : breast fibroadenosis , breast neoplasm , breast pain .
Respiratory system : Infrequent : bronchitis , coughing , dyspnea .
Rare : bronchospasm , epistaxis , hypoxia , laryngitis , pneumonia .
Skin and appendages : Infrequent : pruritus .
Rare : acne , bullous eruption , dermatitis , furunculosis , injection - site inflammation , photosensitivity reaction , urticaria .
Special senses : Frequent : diplopia , vision abnormal .
Infrequent : eye irritation , eye pain , scleritis , taste perversion , tinnitus .
Rare : conjunctivitis , corneal ulceration , lacrimation abnormal , parosmia , photopsia .
Urogenital system : Infrequent : cystitis , urinary incontinence .
Rare : acute renal failure , dysuria , micturition frequency , nocturia , polyuria , pyelonephritis , renal pain , urinary retention .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Imipramine : decreased alertness ( 7 . 1 ) • Chlorpromazine : impaired alertness and psychomotor performance ( 7 . 1 ) • Alcohol causes additive psychomotor impairment ( 7 . 1 ) • Rifampin ( CYP450 ) decreases exposure to , and effects of zolpidem ( 7 . 2 ) • Sedative / hypnotic effect reversed by flumazenil ( 7 . 3 , 10 . 2 ) 7 . 1 CNS - active drugs Zolpidem tartrate tablets were evaluated in healthy volunteers in single - dose interaction studies for several CNS drugs .
A study involving haloperidol and zolpidem revealed no effect of haloperidol on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
Imipramine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction other than a 20 % decrease in peak levels of imipramine , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness .
Similarly , chlorpromazine in combination with zolpidem produced no pharmacokinetic interaction , but there was an additive effect of decreased alertness and psychomotor performance .
The lack of a drug interaction following single - dose administration does not predict a lack following chronic administration .
An additive effect on psychomotor performance between alcohol and zolpidem was demonstrated [ see Warnings and Precautions : CNS depressant effects ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
A single - dose interaction study with zolpidem 10 mg and fluoxetine 20 mg at steady - state levels in male volunteers did not demonstrate any clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions .
When multiple doses of zolpidem and fluoxetine at steady - state concentrations were evaluated in healthy females , the only significant change was a 17 % increase in the zolpidem half - life .
There was no evidence of an additive effect in psychomotor performance .
Following five consecutive nightly doses of zolpidem 10 mg in the presence of sertraline 50 mg ( 17 consecutive daily doses , at 7 : 00 am , in healthy female volunteers ) , zolpidem Cmax was significantly higher ( 43 % ) and Tmax was significantly decreased ( 53 % ) .
Pharmacokinetics of sertraline and N - desmethylsertraline were unaffected by zolpidem .
Since the systematic evaluations of zolpidem tartrate tablets in combination with other CNS - active drugs have been limited , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of any CNS - active drug to be used with zolpidem .
Any drug with CNS - depressant effects could potentially enhance the CNS - depressant effects of zolpidem .
7 . 2 Drugs that affect drug metabolism via cytochrome P450 A randomized , double - blind , crossover interaction study in ten healthy volunteers between itraconazole ( 200 mg once daily for 4 days ) and a single dose of zolpidem ( 10 mg ) given 5 hours after the last dose of itraconazole resulted in a 34 % increase in AUC0 - ∞ of zolpidem .
There were no significant pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem on subjective drowsiness , postural sway , or psychomotor performance .
A randomized , placebo - controlled , crossover interaction study in eight healthy female volunteers between 5 consecutive daily doses of rifampin ( 600 mg ) and a single dose of zolpidem ( 20 mg ) given 17 hours after the last dose of rifampin showed significant reductions of the AUC ( – 73 % ) , Cmax ( – 58 % ) , and T1 / 2 ( – 36 % ) of zolpidem together with significant reductions in the pharmacodynamic effects of zolpidem .
7 . 3 Other drugs A study involving cimetidine / zolpidem and ranitidine / zolpidem combinations revealed no effect of either drug on the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of zolpidem .
Zolpidem had no effect on digoxin kinetics and did not affect prothrombin time when given with warfarin in normal subjects .
Zolpidem ' s sedative / hypnotic effect was reversed by flumazenil ; however , no significant alterations in zolpidem pharmacokinetics were found .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Labor and delivery : No established use ( 8 . 2 ) • Nursing mothers : Not recommended ( 8 . 3 ) • Pediatric use : Safety and effectiveness have not been established ( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric use : Reduced dose in elderly to decrease side effects ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C Zolpidem tartrate was administered to pregnant Sprague - Dawley rats by oral gavage during the period of organogenesis at doses of 4 , 20 , or 100 mg based / kg / day .
Adverse maternal and embryo / fetal effects occurred at doses of 20 mg base / kg and higher , manifesting as dose - related lethargy and ataxia in pregnant rats while examination of fetal skull bones revealed a dose - related trend toward incomplete ossification .
Teratogenicity was not observed at any dose level .
The no - effect dose of zolpidem for maternal and embryofetal toxicity was 4 mg base / kg / day ( between 4 to 5 times the MRHD of zolpidem tartrate tablets on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Administration of zolpidem tartrate to pregnant Himalayan Albino rabbits at doses of 1 , 4 , or 16 mg base / kg / day by oral gavage ( over 35 times the MRHD of zolpidem tartrate tablets on a mg / m2 basis ) during the period of organogenesis produced dose - related maternal sedation and decreased maternal body weight gain at all doses .
At the high dose of 16 mg base / kg , there was an increase in postimplantation fetal loss and under - ossification of sternebrae in viable fetuses .
Teratogenicity was not observed at any dose level .
The no - effect dose of zolpidem for maternal toxicity was below 1 mg base / kg / day ( < 2 - times the MRHD of zolpidem tartrate tablets on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no - effect dose for embryofetal toxicity was 4 mg base / kg / day ( between 9 and 10 times the MRHD of zolpidem tartrate tablets on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Administration of zolpidem tartrate at doses of 4 , 20 , or 100 mg base / kg / day to pregnant Sprague - Dawley rats starting on Day 15 of gestation and continuing through Day 21 of the postnatal lactation period produced dose - dependent lethargy and ataxia in dams at doses of 20 mg base / kg and higher .
Decreased maternal body weight gain as well as evidence on non - secreting mammary glands and a single incidence of maternal death was observed at 100 mg base / kg .
Effects observed on rat pups included decreased body weight with maternal doses of 20 mg base / kg and higher and decreased pup survival at maternal doses of 100 mg base / kg .
The no - effect dose for maternal and offspring toxicity was 4 mg base / kg ( between 4 to 5 times the MRHD of zolpidem tartrate tablets on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus Nonteratogenic effects .
Studies to assess the effects on children whose mothers took zolpidem during pregnancy have not been conducted .
However , children born of mothers taking sedative / hypnotic drugs may be at some risk for withdrawal symptoms from the drug during the postnatal period .
In addition , neonatal flaccidity has been reported in infants born of mothers who received sedative / hypnotic drugs during pregnancy .
8 . 2 Labor and delivery Zolpidem tartrate tablets have no established use in labor and delivery .
8 . 3 Nursing mothers Studies in lactating mothers indicate that the half - life of zolpidem is similar to that in young normal volunteers ( 2 . 6 ± 0 . 3 hr ) .
Between 0 . 004 and 0 . 019 % of the total administered dose is excreted into milk , but the effect of zolpidem on the infant is unknown .
In addition , in a rat study , zolpidem inhibited the secretion of milk .
The no - effect dose was 4 mg base / kg or 6 times the recommended human dose in mg / m2 .
The use of zolpidem tartrate tablets in nursing mothers is not recommended .
8 . 4 Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness of zolpidem have not been established in pediatric patients .
In an 8 - week controlled study , 201 pediatric patients ( aged 6 - 17 years ) with insomnia associated with attention - deficit / hyperactivity disorder ( 90 % of the patients were using psychoanaleptics ) , were treated with an oral solution of zolpidem , 0 . 25 mg / kg / day , up to a maximum of 10 mg / day ( n = 136 ) , or placebo ( n = 65 ) .
Zolpidem did not significantly decrease latency to persistent sleep , compared to placebo , as measured by polysomnography after 4 weeks of treatment .
Psychiatric and nervous system disorders comprised the most frequent ( > 5 % ) treatment emergent adverse events observed with zolpidem versus placebo and included dizziness ( 23 . 5 % vs . 1 . 5 % ) , headache ( 12 . 5 % vs . 9 . 2 % ) , and hallucinations ( 7 . 4 % vs . 0 % ) [ see Warnings and Precautions : Special Populations ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Ten patients on zolpidem ( 7 . 4 % ) discontinued treatment due to an adverse event .
8 . 5 Geriatric use A total of 154 patients in U . S . controlled clinical trials and 897 patients in non - U . S . clinical trials who received zolpidem were ≥ 60 years of age .
For a pool of U . S . patients receiving zolpidem at doses of ≤ 10 mg or placebo , there were three adverse events occurring at an incidence of at least 3 % for zolpidem and for which the zolpidem incidence was at least twice the placebo incidence ( ie , they could be considered drug related ) .
Adverse Event Zolpidem Placebo Dizziness 3 % 0 % Drowsiness 5 % 2 % Diarrhea 3 % 1 % A total of 30 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 5 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem reported falls , including 28 / 30 ( 93 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 28 patients , 23 ( 82 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
A total of 24 / 1 , 959 ( 1 . 2 % ) non - U . S . patients receiving zolpidem reported confusion , including 18 / 24 ( 75 % ) who were ≥ 70 years of age .
Of these 18 patients , 14 ( 78 % ) were receiving zolpidem doses > 10 mg .
The recommended dose of zolpidem tartrat tablets is 5 mg in elderly to decrease the possibility of side effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled substance Zolpidem tartrate is classified as a Schedule IV controlled substance by federal regulation .
9 . 2 Abuse Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Abuse is characterized by misuse of the drug for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation that is manifested by a specific withdrawal syndrome that can be produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , decreasing blood level of the drug , and / or administration of an antagonist .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug induces changes that result in a diminution of one or more of the drug effects over time .
Tolerance may occur to both desired and undesired effects of drugs and may develop at different rates for different effects .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiological disease with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease , using a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
Studies of abuse potential in former drug abusers found that the effects of single doses of zolpidem tartrate tablets 40 mg were similar , but not identical , to diazepam 20 mg , while zolpidem tartrate 10 mg was difficult to distinguish from placebo .
9 . 3 Dependence Sedative / hypnotics have produced withdrawal signs and symptoms following abrupt discontinuation .
These reported symptoms range from mild dysphoria and insomnia to a withdrawal syndrome that may include abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , tremors , and convulsions .
The U . S . clinical trial experience from zolpidem does not reveal any clear evidence for withdrawal syndrome .
Nevertheless , the following adverse events included in DSM - III - R criteria for uncomplicated sedative / hypnotic withdrawal were reported during U . S . clinical trials following placebo substitution occurring within 48 hours following last zolpidem treatment : fatigue , nausea , flushing , lightheadedness , uncontrolled crying , emesis , stomach cramps , panic attack , nervousness , and abdominal discomfort .
These reported adverse events occurred at an incidence of 1 % or less .
However , available data cannot provide a reliable estimate of the incidence , if any , of dependence during treatment at recommended doses .
Rare post - marketing reports of abuse , dependence and withdrawal have been received .
Because persons with a history of addiction to , or abuse of , drugs or alcohol are at increased risk of habituation and dependence , they should be under careful surveillance when receiving zolpidem or any other hypnotic .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and symptoms In European postmarketing reports of overdose with zolpidem alone , impairment of consciousness has ranged from somnolence to light coma .
There was one case each of cardiovascular and respiratory compromise .
Individuals have fully recovered from zolpidem tartrate overdoses up to 400 mg ( 40 times the maximum recommended dose ) .
Overdose cases involving multiple CNS - depressant agents , including zolpidem , have resulted in more severe symptomatology , including fatal outcomes .
10 . 2 Recommended treatment General symptomatic and supportive measures should be used along with immediate gastric lavage where appropriate .
Intravenous fluids should be administered as needed .
Flumazenil may be useful .
As in all cases of drug overdose , respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and other appropriate signs should be monitored and general supportive measures employed .
Hypotension and CNS depression should be monitored and treated by appropriate medical intervention .
Sedating drugs should be withheld following zolpidem overdosage , even if excitation occurs .
The value of dialysis in the treatment of overdosage has not been determined , although hemodialysis studies in patients with renal failure receiving therapeutic doses have demonstrated that zolpidem is not dialyzable .
Poison control center : As with the management of all overdosage , the possibility of multiple drug ingestion should be considered .
The physician may wish to consider contacting a poison control center for up - to - date information on the management of hypnotic drug product overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION Zolpidem tartrate is a non - benzodiazepine hypnotic of the imidazopyridine class and is available in 5 mg and 10 mg strength tablets for oral administration .
Chemically , zolpidem is N , N , 6 - trimethyl - 2 - p - tolylimidazo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyridine - 3 - acetamide L - ( + ) - tartrate ( 2 : 1 ) .
It has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Zolpidem tartrate is a white to off - white crystalline powder that is sparingly soluble in water , alcohol , and propylene glycol .
It has a molecular weight of 764 . 88 .
Each zolpidem tartrate tablet includes the following inactive ingredients : hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , sodium starch glycolate , and titanium dioxide ; the 5 - mg tablet also contains iron oxide red .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of action Subunit modulation of the GABAA receptor chloride channel macromolecular complex is hypothesized to be responsible for sedative , anticonvulsant , anxiolytic , and myorelaxant drug properties .
The major modulatory site of the GABAA receptor complex is located on its alpha ( α ) subunit and is referred to as the benzodiazepine ( BZ ) or omega ( ω ) receptor .
At least three subtypes of the ( ω ) receptor have been identified .
While zolpidem is a hypnotic agent with a chemical structure unrelated to benzodiazepines , barbiturates , or other drugs with known hypnotic properties , it interacts with a GABA - BZ receptor complex and shares some of the pharmacological properties of the benzodiazepines .
In contrast to the benzodiazepines , which non - selectively bind to and activate all omega receptor subtypes , zolpidem in vitro binds the ( ω1 ) receptor preferentially with a high affinity ratio of the alpha1 / alpha5 subunits .
The ( ω1 ) receptor is found primarily on the Lamina IV of the sensorimotor cortical regions , substantia nigra ( parsreticulata ) , cerebellum molecular layer , olfactory bulb , ventral thalamic complex , pons , inferior colliculus , and globus pallidus .
This selective binding of zolpidem on the ( ω1 ) receptor is not absolute , but it may explain the relative absence of myorelaxant and anticonvulsant effects in animal studies as well as the preservation of deep sleep ( stages 3 and 4 ) in human studies of zolpidem at hypnotic doses .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile of zolpidem tartrate tablets is characterized by rapid absorption from the GI tract and a short elimination half - life ( T1 / 2 ) in healthy subjects .
In a single - dose crossover study in 45 healthy subjects administered 5 and 10 mg zolpidem tartrate tablets , the mean peak concentrations ( Cmax ) were 59 ( range : 29 to 113 ) and 121 ( range : 58 to 272 ) ng / mL , respectively , occurring at a mean time ( Tmax ) of 1 . 6 hours for both .
The mean zolpidem tartrate tablets elimination half - life was 2 . 6 ( range : 1 . 4 to 4 . 5 ) and 2 . 5 ( range : 1 . 4 to 3 . 8 ) hours , for the 5 and 10 mg tablets , respectively .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are converted to inactive metabolites that are eliminated primarily by renal excretion .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets demonstrated linear kinetics in the dose range of 5 to 20 mg .
Total protein binding was found to be 92 . 5 ± 0 . 1 % and remained constant , independent of concentration between 40 and 790 ng / mL .
Zolpidem did not accumulate in young adults following nightly dosing with 20 mg zolpidem tartrate tablets for 2 weeks .
A food - effect study in 30 healthy male volunteers compared the pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate tablets 10 mg when administered while fasting or 20 minutes after a meal .
Results demonstrated that with food , mean AUC and Cmax were decreased by 15 % and 25 % , respectively , while mean Tmax was prolonged by 60 % ( from 1 . 4 to 2 . 2 hr ) .
The half - life remained unchanged .
These results suggest that , for faster sleep onset , zolpidem tartrate tablets should not be administered with or immediately after a meal .
In the elderly , the dose for zolpidem tartrate tablets should be 5 mg [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
This recommendation is based on several studies in which the mean Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC were significantly increased when compared to results in young adults .
In one study of eight elderly subjects ( > 70 years ) , the means for Cmax , T1 / 2 , and AUC significantly increased by 50 % ( 255 vs 384 ng / mL ) , 32 % ( 2 . 2 vs 2 . 9 hr ) , and 64 % ( 955 vs 1 , 562 ng ∙ hr / mL ) , respectively , as compared to younger adults ( 20 to 40 years ) following a single 20 mg oral dose .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets do not accumulate in elderly subjects following nightly oral dosing of 10 mg for 1 week .
The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate tablets in eight patients with chronic hepatic insufficiency were compared to results in healthy subjects .
Following a single 20 mg oral zolpidem dose , mean Cmax and AUC were found to be two times ( 250 vs 499 ng / mL ) and five times ( 788 vs 4 , 203 ng ∙ hr / mL ) higher , respectively , in hepatically com - promised patients .
Tmax did not change .
The mean half - life in cirrhotic patients of 9 . 9 hr ( range : 4 . 1 to 25 . 8 hr ) was greater than that observed in normals of 2 . 2 hr ( range : 1 . 6 to 2 . 4 hr ) .
Dosing should be modified accordingly in patients with hepatic insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of zolpidem tartrate were studied in 11 patients with end - stage renal failure ( mean ClCr = 6 . 5 ± 1 . 5 mL / min ) undergoing hemodialysis three times a week , who were dosed with zolpidem 10 mg orally each day for 14 or 21 days .
No statistically significant differences were observed for Cmax , Tmax , half - life , and AUC between the first and last day of drug administration when baseline concentration adjustments were made .
On day 1 , Cmax was 172 ± 29 ng / mL ( range : 46 to 344 ng / mL ) .
After repeated dosing for 14 or 21 days , Cmax was 203 ± 32 ng / mL ( range : 28 to 316 ng / mL ) .
On day 1 , Tmax was 1 . 7 ± 0 . 3 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 3 . 0 hr ) ; after repeated dosing Tmax was 0 . 8 ± 0 . 2 hr ( range : 0 . 5 to 2 . 0 hr ) .
This variation is accounted for by noting that last - day serum sampling began 10 hours after the previous dose , rather than after 24 hours .
This resulted in residual drug concentration and a shorter period to reach maximal serum concentration .
On day 1 , T1 / 2 was 2 . 4 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 4 to 5 . 1 hr ) .
After repeated dosing , T1 / 2 was 2 . 5 ± 0 . 4 hr ( range : 0 . 7 to 4 . 2 hr ) .
AUC was 796 ± 159 ng ∙ hr / mL after the first dose and 818 ± 170 ng ∙ hr / mL after repeated dosing .
Zolpidem was not hemodialyzable .
No accumulation of unchanged drug appeared after 14 or 21 days .
Zolpidem tartrate tablet pharmacokinetics were not significantly different in renally impaired patients .
No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with compromised renal function .
As a general precaution , these patients should be closely monitored .
Postulated relationship between elimination rate of hypnotics and their profile of common untoward effects : The type and duration of hypnotic effects and the profile of unwanted effects during administration of hypnotic drugs may be influenced by the biologic half - life of administered drug and any active metabolites formed .
When half - lives are long , drug or metabolites may accumulate during periods of nightly administration and be associated with impairment of cognitive and / or motor performance during waking hours ; the possibility of interaction with other psychoactive drugs or alcohol will be enhanced .
In contrast , if half - lives , including half - lives of active metabolites , are short , drug and metabolites will be cleared before the next dose is ingested , and carryover effects related to excessive sedation or CNS depression should be minimal or absent .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets have a short half - life and no active metabolites .
During nightly use for an extended period , pharmacodynamic tolerance or adaptation to some effects of hypnotics may develop .
If the drug has a short elimination half - life , it is possible that a relative deficiency of the drug or its active metabolites ( ie , in relationship to the receptor site ) may occur at some point in the interval between each night ' s use .
This sequence of events may account for two clinical findings reported to occur after several weeks of nightly use of other rapidly eliminated hypnotics , namely , increased wakefulness during the last third of the night , and the appearance of increased signs of daytime anxiety .
Increased wakefulness during the last third of the night as measured by polysomnography has not been observed in clinical trials with zolpidem tartrate tablets .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Carcinogenesis : Zolpidem was administered to rats and mice for 2 years at dietary dosages of 4 , 18 , and 80 mg / kg / day .
In mice , these doses are 26 to 520 times or 2 to 35 times the maximum 10 mg human dose on a mg / kg or mg / m2 basis , respectively .
In rats these doses are 43 to 876 times or 6 to 115 times the maximum 10 mg human dose on a mg / kg or mg / m2 basis , respectively .
No evidence of carcinogenic potential was observed in mice .
Renal liposarcomas were seen in 4 / 100 rats ( 3 males , 1 female ) receiving 80 mg / kg / day and a renal lipoma was observed in one male rat at the 18 mg / kg / day dose .
Incidence rates of lipoma and liposarcoma for zolpidem were comparable to those seen in historical controls and the tumor findings are thought to be a spontaneous occurrence .
Mutagenesis : Zolpidem did not have mutagenic activity in several tests including the Ames test , genotoxicity in mouse lymphoma cells in vitro , chromosomal aberrations in cultured human lymphocytes , unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat hepatocytes in vitro , and the micronucleus test in mice .
Impairment of fertility : In a rat reproduction study , the high dose ( 100 mg base / kg ) of zolpidem resulted in irregular estrus cycles and prolonged precoital intervals , but there was no effect on male or female fertility after daily oral doses of 4 to 100 mg base / kg or 5 to 130 times the recommended human dose in mg / m2 .
No effects on any other fertility parameters were noted .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Transient insomnia Normal adults experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 462 ) during the first night in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , single - night trial comparing two doses of zolpidem ( 7 . 5 and 10 mg ) and placebo .
Both zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency , sleep duration , and number of awakenings .
Normal elderly adults ( mean age 68 ) experiencing transient insomnia ( n = 35 ) during the first two nights in a sleep laboratory were evaluated in a double - blind , crossover , 2 - night trial comparing four doses of zolpidem ( 5 , 10 , 15 and 20 mg ) and placebo .
All zolpidem doses were superior to placebo on the two primary PSG parameters ( sleep latency and efficiency ) and all four subjective outcome measures ( sleep duration , sleep latency , number of awakenings , and sleep quality ) .
14 . 2 Chronic insomnia Zolpidem was evaluated in two controlled studies for the treatment of patients with chronic insomnia ( most closely resembling primary insomnia , as defined in the APA Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , DSM - IV ™ ) .
Adult outpatients with chronic insomnia ( n = 75 ) were evaluated in a double - blind , parallel group , 5 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem tartrate ( 10 and 15 mg ) and placebo .
On objective ( polysomnographic ) measures of sleep latency and sleep efficiency , zolpidem 15 mg was superior to placebo for all 5 weeks ; zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on sleep latency for the first 4 weeks and on sleep efficiency for weeks 2 and 4 .
Zolpidem was comparable to placebo on number of awakenings at both doses studied .
Adult outpatients ( n = 141 ) with chronic insomnia were also evaluated , in a double - blind , parallel group , 4 - week trial comparing two doses of zolpidem ( 10 and 15 mg ) and placebo .
Zolpidem 10 mg was superior to placebo on a subjective measure of sleep latency for all 4 weeks , and on subjective measures of total sleep time , number of awakenings , and sleep quality for the first treatment week .
Zolpidem 15 mg was superior to placebo on a subjective measure of total sleep latency for the first 3 weeks , on a subjective measure of total sleep time for the first week , and on number of awakenings and sleep quality for the first 2 weeks .
14 . 3 Studies Pertinent To Safety Concerns For Sedative / Hypnotic Drugs Next - day residual effects : Next - day residual effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets were evaluated in seven studies involving normal volunteers .
In three studies in adults ( including one study in a phase advance model of transient insomnia ) and in one study in elderly subjects , a small but statistically significant decrease in performance was observed in the Digit Symbol Substitution Test ( DSST ) when compared to placebo .
Studies of zolpidem tartrate tablets in non - elderly patients with insomnia did not detect evidence of next - day residual effects using the DSST , the Multiple Sleep Latency Test ( MSLT ) , and patient ratings of alertness .
Rebound effects : There was no objective ( polysomnographic ) evidence of rebound insomnia at recommended doses seen in studies evaluating sleep on the nights following discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
There was subjective evidence of impaired sleep in the elderly on the first post - treatment night at doses above the recommended elderly dose of 5 mg .
Memory impairment : Controlled studies in adults utilizing objective measures of memory yielded no consistent evidence of next - day memory impairment following the administration of zolpidem tartrate tablets .
However , in one study involving zolpidem doses of 10 and 20 mg , there was a significant decrease in next - morning recall of information presented to subjects during peak drug effect ( 90 minutes post - dose ) , ie , these subjects experienced anterograde amnesia .
There was also subjective evidence from adverse event data for anterograde amnesia occurring in association with the administration of zolpidem tartrate tablets , predominantly at doses above 10 mg .
Effects on sleep stages : In studies that measured the percentage of sleep time spent in each sleep stage , zolpidem tartrate tablets have generally been shown to preserve sleep stages .
Sleep time spent in stages 3 and 4 ( deep sleep ) was found comparable to placebo with only inconsistent , minor changes in REM ( paradoxical ) sleep at the recommended dose .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Zolpidem tartrate tablets , 5 mg : Pink , round , film - coated tablets , debossed with " ZIM " on one side and " 5 " on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ' s ....................................
NDC 63672 - 3005 - 1 Bottles of 500 ' s ....................................
NDC 63672 - 3005 - 2 Zolpidem tartrate tablets , 10 mg : White , round , film - coated tablets , debossed with " ZIM " on one side and " 10 " on the other side .
Bottles of 100 ' s ....................................... NDC 63672 - 3010 - 1 Bottles of 500 ' s ....................................... NDC 63672 - 3010 - 2 16 . 2 Storage and handling Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° – 25 ° C ( 68 ° – 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 General Patient information is printed at the end of this insert .
To assure safe and effective use of zolpidem tartrate tablets , this information and instructions provided in the patient information section should be discussed with patients .
17 . 2 FDA - approved patient labeling Your doctor has prescribed zolpidem tartrate tablets to help you sleep .
The following information is intended to guide you in the safe use of this medicine .
It is not meant to take the place of your doctor ' s instructions .
If you have any questions about zolpidem tartrate tablets , be sure to ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Zolpidem tartrate tablets are used to treat different types of sleep problems in adults , such as : • trouble falling asleep • waking up too early in the morning • waking up often during the night Some people may have more than one of these problems Zolpidem tartrate tablets belong to a group of medicines known as the " sedative / hypnotics , " or simply , sleep medicines .
There are many different sleep medicines available to help people sleep better .
Sleep problems are usually temporary , requiring treatment for only a short time , usually 1 or 2 days up to 1 or 2 weeks .
Some people have chronic sleep problems that may require more prolonged use of sleep medicine .
However , you should not use these medicines for long periods without talking with your doctor about the risks and benefits of prolonged use .
SIDE EFFECTS Most common side effects : All medicines have side effects .
Most common side effects of sleep medicines include • drowsiness • dizziness • lightheadedness • difficulty with coordination You may find that these medicines make you sleepy during the day .
How drowsy you feel depends upon how your body reacts to the medicine , which sleep medicine you are taking , and how large a dose your doctor has prescribed .
Daytime drowsiness is best avoided by taking the lowest dose possible that will still help you sleep at night .
Your doctor will work with you to find the dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets that is best for you .
To manage these side effects while you are taking this medicine : • When you first start taking zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine until you know whether the medicine will still have some carryover effect in you the next day , use extreme care while doing anything that requires complete alertness , such as driving a car , operating machinery , or piloting an aircraft .
• NEVER drink alcohol while you are being treated with zolpidem tartrate tablets or any sleep medicine .
Alcohol can increase the side effects of zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine .
• Do not take any other medicines without asking your doctor first .
This includes medicines you can buy without a prescription .
Some medicines can cause drowsiness and are best avoided while taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
• Always take the exact dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets prescribed by your doctor .
Never change your dose without talking to your doctor first .
SPECIAL CONCERNS There are some special problems that may occur while taking sleep medicines .
" Sleep - Driving " and other complex behaviors : There have been reports of people getting out of bed after taking a sleep medicine and driving their cars while not fully awake , often with no memory of the event .
If you experience such an event , it should be reported to your doctor immediately , since " sleep - driving " can be dangerous .
This behavior is more likely to occur when zolpidem tartrate tablets are taken with alcohol or other drugs such as those for the treatment of depression or anxiety .
Other behaviors such as preparing and eating food , making phone calls , or having sex have been reported in people who are not fully awake after taking a sleep medicine .
As with " sleep - driving " , people usually do not remember these events .
Memory problems : Sleep medicines may cause a special type of memory loss or " amnesia . "
When this occurs , a person may not remember what has happened for several hours after taking the medicine .
This is usually not a problem since most people fall asleep after taking the medicine .
Memory loss can be a problem , however , when sleep medicines are taken while traveling , such as during an airplane flight and the person wakes up before the effect of the medicine is gone .
This has been called " traveler ' s amnesia . "
Memory problems are not common while taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
In most instances memory problems can be avoided if you take zolpidem tartrate tablets only when you are able to get a full night ' s sleep ( 7 to 8 hours ) before you need to be active again .
Be sure to talk to your doctor if you think you are having memory problems .
Tolerance : When sleep medicines are used every night for more than a few weeks , they may lose their effectiveness to help you sleep .
This is known as " tolerance . ''
Sleep medicines should , in most cases , be used only for short periods of time , such as 1 or 2 days and generally no longer than 1 or 2 weeks .
If your sleep problems continue , consult your doctor , who will determine whether other measures are needed to overcome your sleep problems .
Dependence : Sleep medicines can cause dependence , especially when these medicines are used regularly for longer than a few weeks or at high doses .
Some people develop a need to continue taking their medicines .
This is known as dependence or " addiction . "
When people develop dependence , they may have difficulty stopping the sleep medicine .
If the medicine is suddenly stopped , the body is not able to function normally and unpleasant symptoms ( see Withdrawal ) may occur .
They may find they have to keep taking the medicine either at the prescribed dose or at increasing doses just to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
All people taking sleep medicines have some risk of becoming dependent on the medicine .
However , people who have been dependent on alcohol or other drugs in the past may have a higher chance of becoming addicted to sleep medicines .
This possibility must be considered before using these medicines for more than a few weeks .
If you have been addicted to alcohol or drugs in the past , it is important to tell your doctor before starting zolpidem tartrate tablets or any sleep medicine .
Withdrawal : Withdrawal symptoms may occur when sleep medicines are stopped suddenly after being used daily for a long time .
In some cases , these symptoms can occur even if the medicine has been used for only a week or two .
In mild cases , withdrawal symptoms may include unpleasant feelings .
In more severe cases , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , shakiness , and rarely , seizures may occur .
These more severe withdrawal symptoms are very uncommon .
Another problem that may occur when sleep medicines are stopped is known as " rebound insomnia . "
This means that a person may have more trouble sleeping the first few nights after the medicine is stopped than before starting the medicine .
If you should experience rebound insomnia , do not get discouraged .
This problem usually goes away on its own after 1 or 2 nights .
If you have been taking zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine for more than 1 or 2 weeks , do not stop taking it on your own .
Always follow your doctor ' s directions .
Changes in behavior and thinking : Some people using sleep medicines have experienced unusual changes in their thinking and / or behavior .
These effects are not common .
However , they have included : • more outgoing or aggressive behavior than normal • loss of personal identity • confusion • strange behavior • agitation • hallucinations • worsening of depression • suicidal thoughts How often these effects occur depends on several factors , such as a person ' s general health , the use of other medicines , and which sleep medicine is being used .
Clinical experience with zolpidem tartrate tablets suggests that it is uncommonly associated with these behavior changes .
It is also important to realize that it is rarely clear whether these behavior changes are caused by the medicine , an illness , or occur on their own .
In fact , sleep problems that do not improve may be due to illnesses that were present before the medicine was used .
If you or your family notice any changes in your behavior , or if you have any unusual or disturbing thoughts , call your doctor immediately .
Pregnancy : Sleep medicines may cause sedation of the unborn baby when used during the last weeks of pregnancy .
Be sure to tell your doctor if you are pregnant , if you are planning to become pregnant , or if you become pregnant while taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
Children : Zolpidem tartrate tablets have not been shown to help children fall asleep .
Hallucinations , headache and dizziness have all been reported as side effects in children who were given zolpidem tartrate tablets .
SAFE USE OF SLEEPING MEDICINES To ensure the safe and effective use of zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine , you should observe the following cautions : • Zolpidem tartrate tablet is a prescription medicine and should be used ONLY as directed by your doctor .
Follow your doctor ' s instructions about how to take , when to take , and how long to take zolpidem tartrate tablets .
• Never use zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine for longer than directed by your doctor .
• If you develop an allergic reaction such as a rash , hives , shortness of breath , or swelling of your tongue or throat when using zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine , discontinue zolpidem tartrate tablets or other sleep medicine immediately and contact your doctor .
• If you notice any unusual and / or disturbing thoughts or behavior during treatment with zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine , contact your doctor .
• Tell your doctor about any medicines you may be taking , including medicines you may buy without a prescription .
You should also tell your doctor if you drink alcohol .
DO NOT use alcohol while taking zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine .
• Do not take zolpidem tartrate tablets unless you are able to get a full night ' s sleep before you must be active again .
For example , zolpidem tartrate tablets should not be taken on an overnight airplane flight of less than 7 to 8 hours since " traveler ' s amnesia " may occur .
• Do not increase the prescribed dose of zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine unless instructed by your doctor .
• When you first start taking zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine until you know whether the medicine will still have some carryover effect in you the next day , use extreme care while doing anything that requires complete alertness , such as driving a car , operating machinery , or piloting an aircraft .
• Be aware that you may have more sleeping problems the first night or two after stopping zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine .
• Be sure to tell your doctor if you are pregnant , if you are planning to become pregnant , or if you become pregnant while taking zolpidem tartrate tablets .
• As with all prescription medicines , never share zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine with anyone else .
Always store zolpidem tartrate tablets or any other sleep medicine in the original container out of reach of children .
• Zolpidem tartrate tablets work very quickly .
You should only take zolpidem tartrate tablets right before going to bed and are ready to go to sleep .
Manufactured for : Synthon Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Research Triangle Park , NC 27709 Manufactured by : Metrics , Inc .
Greenville , NC 27834 Issue Date : April 2007 PI - 3000 - 0 60293
