WARNING : DEATH IN PRETERM INFANTS • Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported in the medical literature .
• Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
• Preterm infants and low birth weight infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] WARNING : DEATH IN PRETERM INFANTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Deaths in preterm infants have been reported in literature .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Autopsy findings included intravascular fat accumulation in the lungs .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Preterm and low birth weight infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KABIVEN ® is indicated as a source of calories , protein , electrolytes and essential fatty acids for adult patients requiring parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
KABIVEN ® may be used to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency or treat negative nitrogen balance in adult patients .
Limitations of Use : KABIVEN ® is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years , including preterm infants because the fixed content of the formulation does not meet the nutritional requirements of this age group [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
KABIVEN ® is indicated as a source of calories , protein , electrolytes and essential fatty acids for adult patients requiring parenteral nutrition when oral or enteral nutrition is not possible , insufficient , or contraindicated .
KABIVEN ® may be used to prevent essential fatty acid deficiency or treat negative nitrogen balance in adult patients .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Not recommended for use in pediatric patients < 2 years including preterm infants because the fixed content of the formulation does not meet nutritional requirements in this age group .
( 1 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • For intravenous infusion only into a central vein .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 8 ) • Recommended dosage depends on clinical status , body weight and nutritional requirements .
( 2 . 4 ) • Adult dosage : 19 to 38 mL / kg / day ( 0 . 63 to 1 . 26 g / kg / day of protein , 1 . 85 to 3 . 71 g / kg / day of dextrose , 0 . 74 to 1 . 48 g / kg / day of lipid ) ( 2 . 4 ) • The maximum infusion rate is 2 . 6 mL / kg / hour ( corresponding to 0 . 09 g / kg / hour of amino acids , 0 . 25 g / kg / hour of dextrose , the limiting factor , and 0 . 1 g / kg / hour of lipid ) .
The recommended infusion period is 12 to 24 hours .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Administration • KABIVEN ® is for intravenous infusion only into a central vein [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
• Use a 1 . 2 micron in - line filter .
• Use of a vented intravenous administration set with the vent in the open position could result in air embolism .
• Use a dedicated line without any connections .
Multiple connections could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
• Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions such as KABIVEN ® via a Y - site due to precipitation .
However , ceftriaxone and KABIVEN ® may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Do not use administration sets and lines that contain di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) .
Administration sets that contain polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) components have DEHP as a plasticizer .
2 . 2 Important Preparation Instructions • Inspect the bag prior to activation .
Discard the bag in the following situations : • Evidence of damage to the bag • More than one chamber is white • Solution is yellow • Any seal is already broken • Activate the bag [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Once the bag is activated , ensure the vertical seals between chambers are broken at least from the bend in the seals and down to the ports .
The upper sections of the vertical seals above the bend and the horizontal seal may remain closed .
• It is recommended to mix the contents thoroughly by inverting the bag upside down to ensure a homogenous admixture .
• Ensure the vertical seals between chambers are broken and the contents of all three chambers are mixed together prior to infusion [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Use KABIVEN ® immediately after the introduction of additives .
If not used immediately , the storage time and conditions prior to use should not be longer than 24 hours at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
After removal from storage at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) , the admixture should be infused within 24 hours .
Any mixture remaining must be discarded .
• In the absence of additives , once activated , KABIVEN ® remains stable for 48 hours at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
If not used immediately , the activated bag can be stored for up to 7 days under refrigeration [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36º to 46 ° F ) ] .
After removal from refrigeration , the activated bag should be used within 48 hours .
• For total parenteral nutrition add multivitamins and trace elements via the additive port .
Any other additions to the bag should be evaluated by a pharmacist for compatibility .
Questions about compatibility may be directed to Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC .
• When introducing additives , it is recommended to use 18 to 23 gauge needles with a maximum length of 1 . 5 inches ( 40 mm ) and to mix thoroughly after each addition , use aseptic technique and add after the vertical seals have been broken ( i . e . bag has been activated ) and the three components are mixed [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Inspect KABIVEN ® to ensure : • Precipitates have not formed during the mixing or addition of additives .
• The emulsion has not separated .
Separation of the emulsion can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the mixed emulsion .
Discard the admixture if any of the above are observed .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 4 Dosing Considerations The dosage of KABIVEN ® should be individualized based on the patient ’ s clinical condition ( ability to adequately metabolize amino acids , dextrose and lipids ) , body weight and nutritional / fluid requirements , as well as additional energy given orally / enterally to the patient .
KABIVEN ® is a combination of amino acids , electrolytes , dextrose , and lipids in a fixed volume and concentration .
The dosage selection is based upon fluid requirements which can be used in conjunction with the nutritional requirements to determine final dosage [ see Table 1 ] .
KABIVEN ® meets the total nutritional requirements for protein , dextrose and lipids in stable patients , and can be individualized to meet specific needs with the addition of nutrients .
The maximum infusion rate is based upon the dextrose component .
Prior to administration of KABIVEN ® , correct severe fluid , electrolyte and acid - base disorders .
Before starting the infusion , obtain serum triglyceride levels to establish the baseline value .
Recommended Adult Dosage The recommended dosage of KABIVEN ® in adults is 19 to 38 mL / kg / day .
The recommended daily nutritional requirements for protein , dextrose and lipids compared to the amount of nutrition provided by KABIVEN ® are shown in Table 1 .
The maximum daily dosage of KABIVEN ® in adults should not exceed 40 mL / kg / day .
In patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg / dL , stop the KABIVEN ® infusion and monitor serum triglyceride levels .
Once the triglycerides are < 400 mg / dL , restart KABIVEN ® at a lower infusion rate and advance rate in smaller increments towards target dosage , checking the triglyceride levels prior to each adjustment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] .
Table 1 : Nutritional Comparison Nutrition Provided by KABIVEN ® recommended dosage Recommended Nutritional Requirements1 Stable Patients Critically Ill Patients * Fluid mL / kg / day 19 to 38 30 to 40 Minimum needed to deliver adequate macronutrients Protein ** g / kg / day Nitrogen g / kg / day 0 . 6 to 1 . 3 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 0 . 8 to 1 . 0 0 . 13 to 0 . 16 1 . 5 to 2 0 . 24 to 0 . 3 Dextrose g / kg / day 1 . 9 to 3 . 7 ≤ 10 ≤ 5 . 8 Lipids g / kg / day 0 . 7 to 1 . 5 1 ≤ 1 Total Energy Requirement kcal / kg / day 16 to 32 20 to 30 25 to 30 * Do not use in patients with conditions that are contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
** Protein is provided as amino acids .
When infused intravenously amino acids are metabolized and utilized as the building blocks of protein .
Treatment with KABIVEN ® may be continued for as long as is required by the patient ’ s condition .
Dosing in Renal Impairment In patients with renal impairment , the dosage of KABIVEN ® should be the recommended adult dosage ( see above ) .
Prior to administration , correct severe fluid or electrolyte imbalances .
Closely monitor serum electrolyte levels and adjust the volume of KABIVEN ® administered as required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
Renal patients not needing dialysis require 0 . 6 to 0 . 8 g of protein / kg / day .
Patients on dialysis or continuous renal replacement therapy should receive 1 . 2 to 1 . 8 g of protein / kg / day up to a maximum of 2 . 5 g of protein / kg / day based on nutritional status and estimated protein losses2 .
The KABIVEN ® dosage can be adjusted based on the treatment for the renal impairment , supplementing protein as indicated .
If required , additional amino acids may be added to the KABIVEN ® bag or infused separately .
Compatibility of additions should be evaluated by a pharmacist and questions may be directed to Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC .
Infusion Duration and Rate The recommended duration of infusion for KABIVEN ® is between 12 and 24 hours , depending on the clinical situation .
The maximum infusion rate of KABIVEN ® is 2 . 6 mL / kg / hour .
This corresponds to 0 . 09 g / kg / hour of amino acids , 0 . 25 g / kg / hour of dextrose ( the rate limiting factor ) and 0 . 1 g / kg / hour of lipids .
Dosing Instructions • Determine the fluid requirements ( 19 to 38 mL / kg / day ) and the patient ’ s nutritional requirements ( see Table 1 ) to be delivered , and then select the corresponding KABIVEN ® bag .
• Determine the preferred duration of infusion ( 12 to 24 hours ) .
• Ensure that the rate of infusion ( KABIVEN ® dosage in mL / kg / day divided by the preferred duration of infusion ( hours ) does not exceed the maximum infusion rate for the patient ( i . e . , 2 . 6 mL / kg / hour ) .
The infusion rate may need to be reduced and duration of infusion increased in order not to exceed the maximum infusion rate .
• Once the infusion rate in mL / kg / hour has been selected , calculate the infusion rate ( mL / hour ) using the patient ’ s weight .
• Compare the patient ’ s nutrient requirements with the amount supplied by KABIVEN ® .
Discuss with a pharmacist any additions that may be required .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS KABIVEN ® is a sterile , hypertonic emulsion in a three chamber container .
The individual chambers contain one of the following respectively : amino acids and electrolytes , dextrose , or lipid injectable emulsion .
Table 2 describes the individual components of KABIVEN ® .
Table 2 : Contents of KABIVEN ® when mixed How Supplied 2 , 566 mL 2 , 053 mL 1 , 540 mL 1 , 026 mL Composition of KABIVEN ® Soybean Oil , USP ( g / 100 mL ) 3 . 9 Dextrose Anhydrous , USP ( g / 100 mL ) 9 . 8 Amino Acids , USP ( g / 100 mL ) 3 . 31 Total Nitrogen ( mg / 100 mL ) 526 Essential amino acids ( mg / 100 mL ) Lysine , USP ( added as the hydrochloride salt ) 263 Phenylalanine , USP 231 Leucine , USP 231 Valine , USP 213 Threonine , USP 164 Methionine , USP 164 Isoleucine , USP 164 Tryptophan , USP 55 Nonessential amino acids ( mg / 100 mL ) Alanine , USP 467 Arginine , USP 330 Glycine , USP 231 Proline , USP 199 Histidine , USP 199 Glutamic Acid 164 Serine , USP 131 Aspartic Acid , USP 99 Tyrosine , USP 6 . 7 Electrolytes ( mg / 100 mL ) Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP 239 Potassium Chloride , USP 174 Sodium Glycerophosphate Anhydrous 147 Magnesium Sulfate Heptahydrate , USP 96 Calcium Chloride Dihydrate , USP 29 Electrolyte Profile1 ( mEq / L ) Sodium2 31 ( 31 mmol / L ) Potassium 23 ( 23 mmol / L ) Magnesium 7 . 8 ( 3 . 9 mmol / L ) Calcium 3 . 8 ( 1 . 9 mmol / L ) Phosphorous3 N . A . ( 9 . 7 mmol / L ) Acetate4 38 ( 38 mmol / L ) Chloride5 45 ( 45 mmol / L ) Sulfate6 7 . 8 ( 3 . 9 mmol / L ) Calorie Content ( kcal / L ) From Dextrose 330 From Lipid 3907 From Amino Acids 130 Total 850 pH8 5 . 6 Osmolarity ( mOsm / L ) 1060 • Balanced by ions from amino acids • Contributed by sodium glycerophosphate and sodium acetate • Contributed by sodium glycerophosphate and phospholipids • Derived from sodium acetate and glacial acetic acid ( for pH adjustment ) • Contributed by calcium chloride , lysine hydrochloride , and potassium chloride • Derived from magnesium sulfate • Total caloric value including lipid , phospholipid and glycerin • pH of amino acid with electrolyte solution was adjusted with glacial acetic acid , USP and pH of lipid emulsion was adjusted with sodium hydroxide , USP • KABIVEN ® is a sterile , hypertonic emulsion in a three chamber container .
The individual chambers contain one of the following : amino acids and electrolytes , dextrose , or lipid injectable emulsion , respectively .
( 3 ) • KABIVEN ® is available in four sizes 2 , 566 mL , 2 , 053 mL , 1 , 540 mL and 1 , 026 mL .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of KABIVEN ® is contraindicated in patients with the following : • Known hypersensitivity to egg , soybean proteins , peanut proteins , corn or corn products or to any of the active substances or excipients • Severe hyperlipidemia or severe disorders of lipid metabolism characterized by hypertriglyceridemia ( serum triglyceride concentration > 1 , 000 g / dL ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Inborn error of amino acid metabolism • Cardiopulmonary instability ( including pulmonary edema , cardiac insufficiency , myocardial infarction , acidosis and hemodynamic instability requiring significant vasopressor support ) • Hemophagocytic syndrome • Known hypersensitivity to egg , soybean proteins , peanut proteins , corn or corn products , or to any of the active substances or excipients ( 4 ) • Severe hyperlipidemia or severe disorders of lipid metabolism with serum triglycerides > 1 , 000 mg / dL ( 4 , 5 . 12 ) • Inborn errors of amino acid metabolism ( 4 ) • Cardiopulmonary instability ( 4 ) • Hemophagocytic syndrome ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur .
( 5 . 2 ) • Infection , fat overload , hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms ; monitor laboratory parameters .
( 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 , 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported .
Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs .
Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion .
The safe and effective use of KABIVEN ® injection in pediatric patients , including preterm infants , has not been established .
KABIVEN ® is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop .
Signs or symptoms may include : tachypnea , dyspnea , hypoxia , bronchospasm , tachycardia , hypotension , cyanosis , vomiting , nausea , headache , sweating , dizziness , altered mentation , flushing , rash , urticaria , erythema , pyrexia and chills .
5 . 3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state .
Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition , poor maintenance of catheters , or immunosuppressive effects of illness , drugs , and parenteral formulations .
Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance , as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula .
Monitor for signs and symptoms ( including fever and chills ) of early infections , including laboratory test results ( including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia ) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device .
5 . 4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations .
A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in KABIVEN ® accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient ' s condition accompanied by fever , anemia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , coagulation disorders , hyperlipidemia , liver fatty infiltration ( hepatomegaly ) , deteriorating liver function , and central nervous system manifestations ( e . g . , coma ) .
The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear .
The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped .
Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded , cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions .
5 . 5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome , characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium , phosphorus , and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic .
Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop .
Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes , while avoiding overfeeding , to prevent these complications .
5 . 6 Diabetes / Hyperglycemia KABIVEN ® should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia .
With the administration of KABIVEN ® , hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result .
Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient ' s utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia , coma and death .
Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing KABIVEN ® .
Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during KABIVEN ® administration .
5 . 7 Monitoring / Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring • Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration .
• Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema .
• Monitor serum triglycerides , fluid and electrolyte status , serum osmolarity , blood glucose , liver and kidney function , and blood count , including platelet and coagulation parameters , throughout treatment .
In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop KABIVEN ® until levels have been corrected .
Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency ( EFAD ) is recommended .
Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels .
Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status .
Increasing essential fatty acid intake ( enterally or parenterally ) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD .
In KABIVEN ® , the mean composition of linoleic acid ( an omega - 6 essential fatty acid ) is 21 mg / mL ( range 19 to 23 mg / mL ) and alpha - linolenic acid ( an omega - 3 essential fatty acid ) is 2 . 6 mg / mL ( range 2 . 0 to 4 . 3 mg / mL ) .
There are insufficient long - term data to determine whether KABIVEN ® can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements .
5 . 8 Vein Damage and Thrombosis KABIVEN ® is indicated for administration into a central vein only , such as the superior vena cava .
The infusion of hypertonic nutrient injections into a peripheral vein may result in vein irritation , vein damage , and / or thrombosis .
5 . 9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing parenteral nutrition solutions , such as KABIVEN ® in the same intravenous administration line .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with KABIVEN ® via a Y - site .
However , ceftriaxone and KABIVEN ® may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition , including cholecystitis , cholelithiasis , cholestasis , hepatic steatosis , fibrosis and cirrhosis , possibly leading to hepatic failure .
The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients .
Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions .
In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] or hepatic insufficiency .
Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia .
Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors , and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions .
5 . 11 Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment , such as pre - renal azotemia , renal obstruction and protein - losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance .
KABIVEN ® should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment .
KABIVEN ® dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid , protein and electrolyte content in these patients .
Monitor renal function parameters .
Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate KABIVEN ® dosage and other treatment options .
5 . 12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient ’ s capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion , measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion ( baseline value ) , with each increase in dosage , and regularly throughout treatment .
Reduce dose of KABIVEN ® and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg / dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia .
Serum triglyceride levels above 1 , 000 mg / dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis .
Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders , obesity , diabetes mellitus , and metabolic syndrome .
In these cases , increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and / or overfeeding .
Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose , as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism .
5 . 13 Aluminum Toxicity KABIVEN ® contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
The aluminum contained in KABIVEN ® may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function .
Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum .
Patients with impaired kidney function , including preterm infants , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day , accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products .
5 . 14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin , triglycerides , bilirubin , LDH , and oxygen saturation , if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream .
Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid - free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients .
KABIVEN ® contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease ( PNALD ) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time , especially preterm infants , and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis .
The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial .
Intravenously administered phytosterols ( plant sterols ) contained in plant - derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established .
If KABIVEN ® treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information .
• Hypersensitivity Reactions [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Infections [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Fat Overload Syndrome [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Refeeding Syndrome [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Diabetes / Hyperglycemia [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Vein Damage and Thrombosis [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hepatobiliary Disorders [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 , 5 . 15 ) ] • Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in Renal Impairment [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] • Hypertriglyceridemia [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 12 ) ] • Aluminum Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 % ) are nausea , pyrexia , hypertension , vomiting , decreased hemoglobin , decreased total protein , hypokalemia , decreased potassium , and increased gamma glutamyltransferase .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical data described for KABIVEN ® reflects exposure in 145 patients exposed for 7 days to 4 weeks in 7 active - controlled trials .
The pooled population exposed to KABIVEN ® was 25 to 87 years old , 35 % female , 99 % Caucasian .
The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders ( 41 % ) neoplasms ( 48 % ) , vascular disorders ( 35 % ) and other surgical procedures ( 21 % ) .
Most patients received central intravenous infusion doses of ≥ 80 % of their target mean daily exposure .
Adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 % of patients who received KABIVEN ® are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions in > 1 % of Patients Treated with KABIVEN ® Adverse reaction KABIVEN ® N = 145 ( % ) Nausea 22 ( 15 ) Pyrexia 13 ( 9 ) Hypertension 12 ( 8 ) Vomiting 8 ( 6 ) Hemoglobin decreased 8 ( 6 ) Protein total decreased 6 ( 4 ) Hypokalemia 6 ( 4 ) Blood potassium decreased 6 ( 4 ) Gamma - glutamyltransferase increased 6 ( 4 ) Hyperglycemia 3 ( 2 ) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 ( 1 ) Blood calcium decreased 2 ( 1 ) Prothrombin time prolonged 2 ( 1 ) Pruritus 2 ( 1 ) Tachycardia 2 ( 1 ) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in ≤ 1 % of patients who received KABIVEN ® were hyperkalemia , hypertriglyceridemia , headache , dizziness , dysgeusia , rash , eczema , blood glucose increased , and increase in blood triglycerides .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of KABIVEN ® in countries where it is registered .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure .
• Hepatobiliary disorders : cholestasis • Infections and infestations : infection • Nervous system disorders : subependymal hemorrhage 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives , including warfarin : Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted ; monitor laboratory parameters .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in KABIVEN ® has vitamin K1 .
Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin and coumarin derivatives , including warfarin , which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1 .
Monitor laboratory parameters for anticoagulant activity in patients who are on both KABIVEN ® and coumarin or coumarin derivatives .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Renal Impairment : Patients on dialysis or continuous renal replacement therapy may require additional protein supplementation to meet nutritional requirements .
If required , adjust the volume of KABIVEN ® administered based on serum electrolyte levels and fluid balance .
( 2 . 4 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data on the use of KABIVEN ® in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk .
However , there are clinical considerations if KABIVEN ® is used in pregnant women [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with KABIVEN ® .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryofetal Risk Severe malnutrition in a pregnant woman is associated with preterm delivery , low birth weight , intrauterine growth restriction , congenital malformations and perinatal mortality .
Parenteral nutrition should be considered if a pregnant woman ’ s nutritional requirements cannot be fulfilled by oral or enteral intake .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available to assess the presence of KABIVEN ® and / or its active metabolite ( s ) in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for KABIVEN ® , and any potential adverse effects of KABIVEN ® on the breastfed child or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of KABIVEN ® in pediatric patients has not been established .
Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsion have been reported [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Patients , particularly preterm infants , are at risk for aluminum toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 13 ) ] .
KABIVEN ® is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of two years , including preterm infants , as the fixed content of the formulation does not meet the nutritional requirements of this age group due to the following reasons : • Calcium and dextrose needs are not met and lipids , protein and magnesium exceed requirements .
• The product does not contain the amino acids cysteine and taurine , considered conditionally essential for neonates and infants .
Patients , including pediatric patients , may be at risk for PNALD [ seeWarnings and Precautions ( 5 . 15 ) ] .
Newborns – especially those born premature and with low birth weight – are at increased risk of developing hypo – or hyperglycemia and therefore need close monitoring during treatment with intravenous dextrose solutions to ensure adequate glycemic control in order to avoid potential long term adverse effects .
Hypoglycemia in the newborn can cause prolonged seizures , coma and brain damage .
Hyperglycemia has been associated with intraventricular hemorrhage , late onset bacterial and fungal infection , retinopathy of prematurity , necrotizing enterocolitis , bronchopulmonary dysplasia , prolonged length of hospital stay , and death .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of KABIVEN ® did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from other younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or drug therapy .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment In patients with impaired liver function KABIVEN ® should be administered with caution .
Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory tests to monitor liver function such as bilirubin and liver function parameters should be conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with impaired renal function , KABIVEN ® should be administered with caution .
Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory tests to monitor renal function such as serum electrolytes ( especially phosphate and potassium ) and fluid balance should be conducted [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 11 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdose , fat overload syndrome may result [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Stop the infusion of KABIVEN ® to allow lipids to clear from serum .
The effects are usually reversible after the lipid infusion is stopped .
If medically appropriate , further intervention may be indicated .
The lipid administered and fatty acids produced are not dialyzable .
11 DESCRIPTION KABIVEN ® is a sterile , hypertonic emulsion , for central venous administration , in a Three Chamber Bag .
The product contains no added sulfites .
Chamber 1 contains Dextrose solution for fluid replenishment and caloric supply .
Chamber 2 contains the Amino Acid solution with Electrolytes , which comprises essential and nonessential amino acids provided with electrolytes .
Chamber 3 contains Intralipid ® 20 % ( a 20 % Lipid Injectable Emulsion ) , prepared for intravenous administration as a source of calories and essential fatty acids .
See below for formulations of each chamber and Table 2 for strength , pH , osmolarity , ionic concentration and caloric content of KABIVEN ® when all the chambers are mixed together .
Chamber 1 : Contains sterile , hypertonic solution of Dextrose , USP in water for injection with a pH range of 3 . 5 to 5 . 5 .
Dextrose , USP is chemically designated D - glucose , monohydrate ( C6H12O6 • H2O ) and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chamber 2 : Contains a sterile solution of amino acids and electrolytes in water for injection .
In addition , glacial acetic acid has been added to adjust the pH so that the final solution pH is 5 . 4 to 5 . 8 .
The formulas for the individual electrolytes and amino acids are as follows : Electrolytes Sodium Acetate Trihydrate , USP CH3COONax3H2O Potassium Chloride , USP KCl Sodium Glycerophosphate C3H5 ( OH ) 2PO4Na2xH2O Magnesium Sulfate Heptahydrate , USP MgSO4x7H2O Calcium Chloride Dihydrate , USP CaCl2x2H2O Essential Amino Acids Lysine ( added as the hydrochloride salt ) H2N ( CH2 ) 4 CH ( NH2 ) COOH . HCl Phenylalanine [ MULTIMEDIA ] Leucine ( CH3 ) 2CHCH2CH ( NH2 ) COOH Valine ( CH3 ) 2 CHCH ( NH2 ) COOH Threonine CH3CH ( OH ) CH ( NH2 ) COOH Methionine CH3S ( CH2 ) 2 CH ( NH2 ) COOH Isoleucine CH3CH2CH ( CH3 ) CH ( NH2 ) COOH Tryptophan [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nonessential Amino Acids Alanine CH3CH ( NH2 ) COOH Arginine H2NC ( NH ) NH ( CH2 ) 3 CH ( NH2 ) COOH Glycine H2NCH2COOH Proline [ MULTIMEDIA ] Histidine [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glutamic Acid HOOC ( CH2 ) 2 CH ( NH2 ) COOH Serine HOCH2CH ( NH2 ) COOH Aspartic Acid HOOCCH2CH ( NH2 ) COOH Tyrosine [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chamber 3 : Contains a 20 % Lipid Injectable Emulsion ( Intralipid ® 20 % ) which is made up of 20 % Soybean Oil , 1 . 2 % Egg Yolk Phospholipids , 2 . 25 % Glycerin , and water for injection .
In addition , sodium hydroxide has been added to adjust the pH . The final product pH range is 6 to 9 .
The soybean oil is a refined natural product consisting of a mixture of neutral triglycerides of predominantly unsaturated fatty acids with the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] where [ MULTIMEDIA ] are saturated and unsaturated fatty acid residues .
The major component fatty acids are linoleic ( 48 to 58 % ) , oleic ( 17 to 30 % ) , palmitic ( 9 to 13 % ) , linolenic ( 5 to 11 % ) and stearic acid ( 2 . 5 to 5 % ) .
These fatty acids have the following chemical and structural formulas : Linoleic acid C18H32O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oleic acid C18H34O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Palmitic acid C16H32O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Linolenic acid C18H30O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Stearic acid C18H36O2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Purified egg phosphatides are a mixture of naturally occurring phospholipids which are isolated from the egg yolk .
These phospholipids have the following general structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] contain saturated and unsaturated fatty acids that abound in neutral fats .
R3 is primarily either the choline or ethanolamine ester of phosphoric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Glycerin is chemically designated C3H8O3 and is a clear colorless , hygroscopic syrupy liquid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional oxygen and moisture barrier when necessary .
An oxygen absorber is placed between the inner bag and the overpouch .
The container is not made with natural rubber latex or polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) .
KABIVEN ® contains no more than 25 mcg / L of aluminum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action KABIVEN ® is used as a supplement or as the sole source of nutrition in patients , providing macronutrients ( amino acids , dextrose and lipids ) and micronutrients ( electrolytes ) parenterally .
The amino acids provide the structural units that make up proteins and are used to synthesize proteins and other biomolecules or are oxidized to urea and carbon dioxide as a source of energy .
The administered dextrose is oxidized to carbon dioxide and water , yielding energy .
Intravenously administered lipids provide a biologically utilizable source of calories and essential fatty acids .
Fatty acids serve as an important substrate for energy production .
The most common mechanism of action for energy derived from fatty acid metabolism is beta - oxidation .
Fatty acids are important for membrane structure and function , precursors for bioactive molecules ( such as prostaglandins ) , and as regulators of gene expression .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The infused lipid particles provided by KABIVEN ® are expected to be cleared from the blood stream in a manner thought to be comparable to the clearing of chylomicrons .
In healthy volunteers , the maximum clearance rate of the triglycerides after fasting overnight has been found to be 3 . 8 ± 1 . 5 g / kg per 24 hours .
Both elimination and oxidation rates are dependent on the patient ' s clinical condition ; elimination is faster and utilization is increased in postoperative patients , in sepsis , burns and trauma , while patients with renal impairment and hypertriglyceridemia may show lower utilization of exogenous lipid emulsions .
Due to differences in elimination , patients with these conditions should be closely monitored during KABIVEN ® administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 , 5 . 11 ) ] .
The disposition of infused amino acids , dextrose and electrolytes are essentially the same as those supplied by ordinary food .
A clinical study in healthy volunteers employing high intravenous doses ( 80 mmol ) of either sodium glycerophosphate used in KABIVEN ® or reference , inorganic sodium phosphate demonstrated that both compounds resulted in comparable serum inorganic phosphate concentrations after a single intravenous dose .
Changes from baseline in the serum levels of sodium , potassium and total calcium were comparable across the two phosphate sources in this study .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies have not been conducted to evaluate carcinogenic potential of KABIVEN ® or its effect on fertility .
Genotoxicity studies have not been conducted with KABIVEN ® to assess its mutagenic potential .
15 REFERENCES • Ayers P . et al .
A . S . P . E . N . Parenteral Nutrition Handbook , 2 nd ed .
2014 pg .
123 .
• Mueller CM ed .
The A . S . P . E . N . Nutrition Support Core Curriculum 2 nd ed .
2012 .
Chapter 29 Wolk R , Foulks C . Renal Disease . , pg .
500 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING KABIVEN ® is a sterile emulsion available in the following 4 sizes : NDCVolume 63323 - 712 - 25 2 , 566 mL 63323 - 712 - 20 2 , 053 mL 63323 - 712 - 15 1 , 540 mL 63323 - 712 - 10 1 , 026 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
If accidentally frozen , discard the bag .
It is recommended that the product be stored at 5 ° C to 25 ° C ( 41 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
Do not remove container from overpouch until intended for use .
After breaking the vertical seals , chemical and physical in - use stability of the mixed three chamber bag has been demonstrated for 48 hours at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
If not used immediately , the activated bag can be stored for up to 7 days under refrigeration [ 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36º to 46 ° F ) ] .
After removal from refrigeration , the activated bag should be used within 48 hours .
The product should be used immediately after the introduction of additives .
If not used immediately , the storage time and conditions prior to use should not be longer than 24 hours at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
After removal from storage at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) , the admixture should be infused within 24 hours .
Any mixture remaining must be discarded .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION To ensure the safe and effective use of KABIVEN ® , this information should be discussed with the patient .
Inform patients of the following : • KABIVEN ® is given by infusion through a central vein catheter only .
• Allergic reactions to KABIVEN ® may occur .
• There is a risk of infection and sepsis associated with formulations administered intravenously .
• KABIVEN ® may cause adverse reactions such as nausea and vomiting , excess fat ( lipids ) in the blood , high blood sugar , abnormally increased transaminase and bilirubin , or abnormally high or low blood electrolyte levels .
• Contact their healthcare provider if they develop symptoms of an allergic reaction , infection , high blood sugar , low blood sugar , nausea , vomiting , or fluid retention occurs .
• Have periodic laboratory tests and routinely follow - up with their healthcare provider .
• Inform their healthcare provider about any changes in prescription or over the counter medications and supplements to avoid potential drug interactions and side effects .
When patients self - administer KABIVEN ® injection at home , inform patients of the following : • Patients and / or caregiver must be trained in how to inspect , activate and administer KABIVEN ® .
• Follow the KABIVEN ® inspection , activation and administration instructions provided by their home care provider , and Prescribing Information [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 and 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Do not deviate from the administration instructions given by the healthcare provider .
• Inspect KABIVEN ® before using for evidence of damage , particulate matter , and / or discoloration .
• Discard the bag in the following situations : • Evidence of damage to the bag • More than one chamber is white • Solution is yellow • Any seal is already broken • Prior to activation , store KABIVEN ® at 5 ° C to 25 ° C ( 41 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
• Activate bag just prior to use or refrigerate activated bag at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) for up to 7 days .
After removal from storage at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) , the activated bag should be used within 48 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
• After activation and prior to administration carefully inspect bag for separation of the lipid emulsion , which can be visibly identified by a yellowish streaking or the accumulation of yellowish droplets in the mixed emulsion .
Discard the bag if this occurs .
Additional information is available at www . KabivenUSA . com .
The brand names mentioned in this document are the trademarks of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Uppsala , Sweden www . fresenius - kabi . com / us 451206 D [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 1026 mL Bag Label KABIVEN ® 1026 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 1026 mL Bag Shipper Label NDC 63323 - 712 - 10 KABIVEN ® 4 x 1026 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 1540 mL Bag Label KABIVEN ® 1540 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 1540 mL Bag Shipper Label NDC 63323 - 712 - 15 KABIVEN ® 4 x 1540 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 2053 mL Bag Label KABIVEN ® 2053 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 2053 mL Bag Shipper Label NDC 63323 - 712 - 20 KABIVEN ® 4 x 2053 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 2566 mL Bag Label KABIVEN ® 2566 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - KABIVEN ® 2566 mL Bag Shipper Label NDC 63323 - 712 - 25 KABIVEN ® 3 x 2566 mL Amino Acids , Electrolytes , Dextrose , and Lipid Injectable Emulsion , for intravenous use ( 3 . 3 % , 0 . 7 % * , 9 . 8 % and 3 . 9 % ) , No sulfites added CENTRAL INFUSION Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
