1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Xermelo is indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with somatostatin analog ( SSA ) therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy .
Xermelo is a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with somatostatin analog ( SSA ) therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Xermelo in adult patients is 250 mg three times daily for patients whose diarrhea is inadequately controlled by SSA therapy .
Administration • Take Xermelo with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• When short - acting octreotide is used in combination with Xermelo , administer short - acting octreotide at least 30 minutes after administering Xermelo [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• If a dose is missed , take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
• Discontinue Xermelo if severe constipation develops [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• The recommended dosage of Xermelo in adult patients is 250 mg three times daily for patients whose diarrhea is inadequately controlled by a SSA therapy .
( 2 ) • Take Xermelo with food .
( 2 ) • When short - acting octreotide is used in combination with Xermelo , administer short - acting octreotide at least 30 minutes after administering Xermelo .
( 2 , 7 . 1 ) • Discontinue Xermelo if severe constipation develops .
( 2 , 5 . 1 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablets : 250 mg telotristat ethyl ; white to off - white , coated and oval with “ T - E ” debossed on one side and “ 250 ” debossed on the other side .
Tablets : 250 mg telotristat ethyl ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Constipation : Xermelo reduces bowel movement frequency ; monitor patients for constipation and / or severe persistent or worsening abdominal pain .
Discontinue Xermelo if severe constipation or abdominal pain develops .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Constipation Xermelo reduces bowel movement frequency .
In a 12 - week , placebo - controlled trial , in which patients had 4 or greater bowel movements per day , 2 out of 45 patients treated with a higher than recommended dosage of Xermelo reported constipation .
In one patient the constipation was serious , resulting in hospitalization .
During the 36 - week extension period with higher than the recommended dosage , 10 of 115 patients reported constipation : one developed intestinal perforation and one developed obstruction .
In another 12 - week , placebo - controlled trial in which patients had less than 4 bowel movements per day , 4 out of 25 patients treated with the recommended dosage of Xermelo reported constipation .
Given that patients with metastatic carcinoid tumors may have impaired integrity of the gastrointestinal tract wall , monitor for the development of constipation and / or severe , persistent , or worsening abdominal pain in patients taking Xermelo .
Discontinue Xermelo if severe constipation or severe persistent or worsening abdominal pain develops [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are nausea , headache , increased GGT , depression , flatulence , decreased appetite , peripheral edema , and pyrexia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TerSera Therapeutics LLC at 1 - 844 - 334 - 4035 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Xermelo was studied in a double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 90 patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid syndrome diarrhea .
Patients reported between 4 to 12 bowel movements daily despite the use of SSA therapy at a stable dose for at least 3 months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Placebo or Xermelo 250 mg was administered three times daily for 12 weeks .
Concomitant anti - diarrheal medications ( e . g . , loperamide ) were used by 43 % ( 36 % and 51 % in the placebo and Xermelo group , respectively ) , pancreatic enzyme replacement medications by 39 % ( 36 % and 42 % in the placebo and Xermelo group , respectively ) , and opioid analgesics by 29 % ( 24 % and 33 % in the placebo and Xermelo group , respectively ) of patients during the 12 - week double - blind period of the trial .
Table 1 below lists adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of at least 5 % in the Xermelo group ( N = 45 ) and at an incidence greater than placebo ( N = 45 ) during the 12 - week placebo - controlled period of the trial .
Table 1 : Percent Common Adverse Reactionsa by Treatment Group at 12 - Weeks in a Double - Blind Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trial of Patients with Carcinoid Syndrome Diarrhea a incidence of at least 5 % in the Xermelo group and at an incidence greater than placebo b including depression , depressed mood and decreased interest Adverse Reaction Xermelo 250 mg Three Times Daily , N = 45 ( % ) Placebo , N = 45 ( % ) Nausea 13 11 Headache 11 4 Increased gamma - glutamyl - transferase ( GGT ) 9 0 Depressionb 9 7 Peripheral edema 7 2 Flatulence 7 2 Decreased appetite 7 4 Pyrexia 7 4 In another placebo - controlled clinical trial of patients with carcinoid syndrome diarrhea and less than 4 bowel movements per day , the following additional adverse reactions , not listed in Table 1 , of abdominal pain ( including upper and lower abdominal pain , abdominal distention and gastrointestinal pain ) and constipation were reported in at least 5 % of patients in the Xermelo treated group and at an incidence greater than placebo [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Less Common Adverse Reactions : The following is a list of adverse reactions occurring in less than 5 % of patients receiving Xermelo during the 12 - week placebo - controlled period of the clinical trial : Investigations : increased alkaline phosphatase , increased alanine aminotransferase , and increased aspartate aminotransferase .
Fecaloma was reported in one patient treated with Xermelo during the 36 - week open - label extension period following the 12 - week double - blind period of the trial .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS CYP3A4 Substrates ( e . g . , midazolam ) : Efficacy of concomitant drugs may be decreased ; monitor for suboptimal efficacy and consider increasing the dose of the concomitant drug .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Substrates Concomitant use of Xermelo may decrease the efficacy of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates ( e . g . , midazolam ) by decreasing their systemic exposure .
Monitor for suboptimal efficacy and consider increasing the dose for concomitant CYP3A4 substrates , if necessary [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Short - Acting Octreotide Concurrent administration of short - acting octreotide with Xermelo significantly decreased the systemic exposure of telotristat ethyl and telotristat , the active metabolite .
If treatment with short - acting octreotide is needed in combination with Xermelo , administer short - acting octreotide at least 30 minutes after administration of Xermelo [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no human data with Xermelo use in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk .
In animal reproduction studies , no effects on embryo - fetal development were observed with the administration of oral telotristat ethyl to rats during organogenesis at doses up to 750 mg / kg / day ( approximately 9 times the exposure at the RHD [ recommended human dose ] ) .
Treatment of pregnant rabbits with oral telotristat ethyl during organogenesis produced maternal toxicity and post - implantation loss at doses of 250 mg / kg / day or higher ( approximately 15 times the exposure at the RHD ) , and reduced fetal weight at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 33 times the exposure at the RHD ) .
In a pre - / postnatal development study , an increased incidence of mortality in rat offspring was observed during postnatal days 0 to 4 at the maternal oral dose of 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the exposure at the RHD ) , given during organogenesis through lactation [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal data An embryo - fetal development study performed in rats with oral telotristat ethyl at doses up to 750 mg / kg / day ( approximately 9 times the AUC [ area under the plasma concentration - time curve ] for the active metabolite at the RHD ) during organogenesis produced no harm to embryo - fetal development .
In pregnant rabbits treated orally with telotristat ethyl during organogenesis , an increased incidence of post - implantation loss at doses of 250 and 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 15 times the AUC for the active metabolite at RHD ) and a decrease in fetal weight at 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 33 times the AUC for the active metabolite at the RHD ) was observed .
The adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were associated with maternal toxicity ( impaired weight gain and / or mortality ) at 250 and 500 mg / kg / day .
No adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were observed at 125 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the AUC for the active metabolite at the RHD ) .
A pre - / postnatal development study was conducted in rats using oral administration of 100 , 200 , and 500 mg / kg / day telotristat ethyl during organogenesis through lactation .
An increased incidence of pup mortality was observed during postnatal days 0 to 4 at the maternal dose of 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the AUC for the active metabolite at the RHD ) .
No developmental abnormalities or effects on growth , learning and memory , or reproductive performance were observed through maturation of offspring at maternal doses of up to 500 mg / kg / day in surviving offspring .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of telotristat ethyl in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The effects of local gastrointestinal and systemic exposure to telotristat ethyl on breastfed infants are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Xermelo and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Xermelo or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor the breastfed infant for symptoms of constipation .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Xermelo in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 45 patients in a clinical trial of Xermelo , 19 ( 42 % ) patients were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Xermelo ( telotristat ethyl ) tablets contain telotristat ethyl as telotristat etiprate , a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor .
Telotristat etiprate is the hippurate salt of telotristat ethyl [ ( S ) - ethyl 2 - amino - 3 - ( 4 - ( 2 - amino - 6 - ( ( R ) - 1 - ( 4 - chloro - 2 - ( 3 - methyl - 1 H - pyrazol - 1 - yl ) phenyl ) - 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroethoxy ) pyrimidin - 4 - yl ) phenyl ) propanoate ] , which undergoes hydrolysis to the active metabolite , ( S ) - 2 - amino - 3 - ( 4 - ( 2 - amino - 6 - ( ( R ) - 1 - ( 4 - chloro - 2 - ( 3 - methyl - 1 H - pyrazol - 1 - yl ) phenyl ) - 2 , 2 , 2 - trifluoroethoxy ) pyrimidin - 4 - yl ) phenyl ) propanoic acid .
The molecular formula of telotristat etiprate is C27H26ClF3N6O3 • C9H9NO3 and its molecular weight is 754 . 2 .
The molecular weight of the free base ( telotristat ethyl ) is 575 . 0 .
Chemical Structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Telotristat etiprate is a white to off - white solid .
The solubility is a function of pH at 25 ° C ; at pH 1 ( 0 . 1 N HCl ) , the solubility is greater than 71 mg / mL , at pH 3 phosphate buffer , the solubility is 0 . 30 mg / mL , at a pH of 5 to 9 , the solubility is negligible .
In organic solvents , telotristat etiprate is freely soluble in methanol , soluble in acetone , and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Each Xermelo tablet contains 250 mg of telotristat ethyl ( free base ) which is equivalent to 328 mg telotristat etiprate .
The inactive ingredients of Xermelo tablets include : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose anhydrous , macrogol / PEG , magnesium stearate , polyvinyl alcohol [ part hydrolyzed ] , talc and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Telotristat , the active metabolite of telotristat ethyl , is an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase , which mediates the rate limiting step in serotonin biosynthesis .
The in vitro inhibitory potency of telotristat towards tryptophan hydroxylase is 29 times higher than that of telotristat ethyl .
Serotonin plays a role in mediating secretion , motility , inflammation , and sensation of the gastrointestinal tract , and is over - produced in patients with carcinoid syndrome .
Through inhibition of tryptophan hydroxylase , telotristat and telotristat ethyl reduce the production of peripheral serotonin , and the frequency of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In healthy subjects , telotristat ethyl 500 mg three times daily ( twice the recommended dosage ) for 14 days decreased whole blood serotonin and 24 - hour urinary 5 - hydroxyindolacetic acid ( u5 - HIAA ) from baseline .
A decrease in 24 - hour u5 - HIAA was observed as early as after 5 days of treatment .
In patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid syndrome diarrhea , 24 - hour u5 - HIAA decreased from baseline following 6 and 12 weeks of treatment with Xermelo 250 mg three times a day , whereas placebo did not decrease u5 - HIAA .
Cardiac Electrophysiology At a dose 6 times the recommended dose of 250 mg , Xermelo does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After a single oral dose of telotristat ethyl to healthy subjects , telotristat ethyl was absorbed and metabolized to its active metabolite , telotristat .
Peak plasma concentrations of telotristat ethyl were achieved within 0 . 5 to 2 hours , and those of telotristat within 1 to 3 hours .
Plasma concentrations thereafter declined in a biphasic manner .
Following administration of a single 500 mg dose of telotristat ethyl ( twice the recommended dosage ) under fasted conditions in healthy subjects , the mean Cmax and AUC0 - inf were 4 . 4 ng / mL and 6 . 23 ng • hr / mL , respectively for telotristat ethyl .
The mean Cmax and AUC0 - inf were 610 ng / mL and 2320 ng • hr / mL , respectively for telotristat .
Peak plasma concentrations and AUC of telotristat ethyl and telotristat appeared to be dose proportional following administration of a single dose of telotristat ethyl in the range of 100 mg ( 0 . 4 times the lowest recommended dose to 1000 mg [ 4 times the highest recommended dose ] ) under fasted conditions .
Following multiple - dose administration of telotristat ethyl 500 mg three times daily , there was negligible accumulation at steady state for both telotristat ethyl and telotristat .
In patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid syndrome diarrhea treated with SSA therapy , the median Tmax for telotristat ethyl and telotristat was approximately 1 and 2 hours , respectively .
Following administration of 500 mg telotristat ethyl three times daily , with meals in patients , the mean Cmax and AUC0 - 6 hr were approximately 7 ng / mL and 22 ng • hr / mL , respectively , for telotristat ethyl .
The mean Cmax and AUC0 - 6 hr were approximately 900 ng / mL and 3000 ng • hr / mL , respectively for telotristat .
The pharmacokinetic parameters for both telotristat ethyl and telotristat were highly variable with about 55 % coefficient of variation .
Food Effect Administration of a single 500 mg dose of Xermelo ( twice the recommended dose ) with food resulted in higher exposure to both telotristat ethyl and telotristat .
The systemic exposure to telotristat ethyl , was significantly increased following administration with a high - fat meal , with Cmax , and AUC0 - inf being 112 % , and 264 % higher , respectively compared to the fasted state .
Following administration of a single 500 mg dose of telotristat ethyl under the fed conditions in healthy subjects , the mean Cmax and AUC0 - inf were 10 . 5 ng / mL and 21 . 6 ng • hr / mL , respectively for telotristat ethyl .
The Cmax and AUC0 - inf values for telotristat were also increased by 47 % and 33 % , respectively , with a high - fat meal compared to the fasted state .
The mean Cmax and AUC0 - inf were 908 ng / mL and 2980 ng • hr / mL , respectively for telotristat under the fed condition .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Distribution Both telotristat ethyl and telotristat are greater than 99 % bound to human plasma proteins .
In vitro data suggests that telotristat is a substrate of P - glycoprotein .
Elimination Following a single 500 mg oral dose of telotristat ethyl in healthy subjects , the apparent half - life was approximately 0 . 6 hours for telotristat ethyl and 5 hours for telotristat .
The apparent total clearance at steady state ( CL / Fss ) following oral dosing with telotristat ethyl 500 mg three times daily for 14 days ( twice the recommended dosage ) in healthy subjects was 2 . 7 and 152 L / hr for telotristat ethyl and telotristat , respectively .
Metabolism After oral administration , telotristat ethyl undergoes hydrolysis via carboxylesterases to telotristat , its active metabolite .
Telotristat is further metabolized .
Among the metabolites of telotristat , the systemic exposure to an acid metabolite of oxidative deaminated decarboxylated telotristat was about 35 % of that of telotristat .
In vitro data suggest that telotristat ethyl and telotristat are not substrates for CYP enzymes .
Excretion Following a single 500 mg oral dose of 14 C - telotristat ethyl , 93 . 2 % of the dose was recovered over 240 hours : 92 . 8 % was recovered in the feces , with less than 0 . 4 % being recovered in the urine .
Specific Populations Age and Sex Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that age ( 18 to 83 years ) and sex do not affect the pharmacokinetics of telotristat .
Renal Impairment Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that creatinine clearance ( 20 to 89 mL / min ) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of telotristat .
Xermelo was not studied in end - stage renal disease ( ESRD ) patients who require dialysis .
Hepatic Impairment Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that mild hepatic impairment ( defined as total bilirubin greater than 1 to 1 . 5 times the upper limit of normal [ ULN ] or AST greater than the ULN ) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of telotristat .
The effect of moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( defined as total bilirubin greater than 1 . 5 times the ULN and any value for AST ) is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies Effect of Telotristat Ethyl on Other Drugs In vitro studies The potential for telotristat ethyl and telotristat to induce CYP enzymes ( 1A2 and 2B6 ) or inhibit CYP enzymes ( 2B6 , 2C8 , and 2C9 ) has not been adequately studied in vitro .
In vitro telotristat ethyl inhibited P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) and breast cancer resistance protein ( BCRP ) , but telotristat did not inhibit P - gp and BCRP at the clinically relevant concentrations .
However , in vivo drug interaction potential via inhibition of BCRP is low based on in vitro studies and in vivo findings .
Based on in vitro studies , in vivo drug interaction potential via inhibition of organic cation transporter 1 ( OCT1 ) , OCT2 , organic anion transporter 1 ( OAT1 ) , OAT3 , organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B1 ( OATP1B1 ) , OATP1B3 , or bile salt export pump ( BSEP ) transporters by telotristat ethyl and telotristat is low at the recommended dosage .
Midazolam ( sensitive CYP3A4 substrate ) Following administration of multiple doses of telotristat ethyl , the systemic exposure to concomitant midazolam was significantly decreased .
When 3 mg midazolam was co - administered orally after 5 day treatment with telotristat ethyl 500 mg three times daily ( twice the recommended dosage ) , the mean Cmax , and AUC0 - inf for midazolam were decreased by 25 % , and 48 % , respectively , compared to administration of midazolam alone .
The mean Cmax , and AUC0 - inf for the active metabolite , 1 ' - hydroxymidazolam , were also decreased by 34 % , and 48 % , respectively .
The reduction in the systemic exposure to both midazolam and its active metabolite suggests that the glucuronidation of 1 ' - hydroxymidazolam may have been increased by telotristat ethyl [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Fexofenadine ( sensitive P - gp substrate ) The Cmax and AUC of fexofenadine increased by 16 % when a single 180 mg dose of fexofenadine was co - administered orally with the final dose of telotristat ethyl 500 mg administered three times daily ( twice the recommended dosage ) for 5 days .
Clinically meaningful interactions with P - gp substrates are unlikely .
Effect of Other Drugs on Telotristat Ethyl Short - Acting Octreotide The mean Cmax and AUC0 - last of telotristat ethyl were decreased by 86 % and 81 % , respectively , following administration of a single 500 mg dose of Xermelo ( twice the recommended dose ) , co - administered with short - acting octreotide 200 mcg injected subcutaneously in healthy subjects .
The mean Cmax and AUC0 - last of telotristat were decreased by 79 % and 68 % , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 26 - week study in transgenic ( Tg . rasH2 ) mice , telotristat ethyl was not tumorigenic at oral doses up to 300 mg / kg / day .
Telotristat ethyl was negative in the in vitro Ames test , the in vitro chromosomal aberration test using Chinese hamster ovary cells , and the in vivo rat micronucleus test .
Telotristat ethyl at oral doses up to 500 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the AUC for the active metabolite at the RHD ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male or female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A 12 - week double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized , multicenter trial of Xermelo was conducted in adult patients with a well - differentiated metastatic neuroendocrine tumor and carcinoid syndrome diarrhea who were having between 4 to 12 daily bowel movements despite the use of SSA therapy at a stable dose for at least 3 months .
Patients were randomized to placebo or treatment with Xermelo 250 mg three times daily .
Study medication was administered within 15 minutes before or within 1 hour after a meal or snack [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
All patients were required to stay on their baseline SSA regimen and were allowed to use rescue medication ( short - acting octreotide ) and antidiarrheals ( e . g . , loperamide ) for symptomatic relief .
A total of 90 patients were evaluated for efficacy .
The mean age of the population was 63 years of age ( range 37 to 83 years ) , 50 % were male , and 90 % were White .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline in the number of daily bowel movements averaged over the 12 - week treatment period .
The analysis results can be found in Table 2 below .
The average was based on the number of days with valid , non - missing data .
When a patient had more than 6 weeks of missing data , the change from baseline was considered equal to zero .
A week of missing data was defined as a patient missing at least 4 days of diary data in that week .
Table 2 : Change from Baseline in Bowel Movements / Day Averaged Over 12 Weeks in Adult Patients with Carcinoid Syndrome Diarrhea Parameter Xermelo 250 mg three times daily Placebo CL = confidence limit ; SD = standard deviation .
a Baseline Bowel Movements / Day was assessed over the 3 - 4 week screening / run - in period .
b Statistical tests used a blocked 2 - sample Wilcoxon Rank Sum statistic ( van Elteren test ) stratified by the u5 - HIAA stratification at randomization .
CLs were based on the Hodges - Lehmann estimator of the median paired difference .
c p < 0 . 001 Bowel Movements / Day At Baselinea Number of Patients 45 45 Baseline Mean ( SD ) Median ( Min , Max ) 6 . 1 ( 2 . 1 ) 5 . 5 ( 3 . 5 , 13 . 0 ) 5 . 2 ( 1 . 4 ) 5 . 1 ( 3 . 5 , 9 . 0 ) Change From Baseline In Bowel Movements / Day Averaged Over 12 Weeks Change Averaged over 12 Weeks : Mean ( SD ) Median ( Min , Max ) ˗ 1 . 4 ( 1 . 4 ) - 1 . 3 ( - 6 . 1 , 1 . 6 ) ˗ 0 . 6 ( 0 . 8 ) - 0 . 6 ( - 2 . 7 , 0 . 8 ) Estimate of Treatment Difference ( 97 . 5 % CL ) b ˗ 0 . 8 c ( ˗ 1 . 3 , ˗ 0 . 3 ) --- In the 12 - week study , a difference in average weekly reductions in bowel movement frequency between Xermelo and placebo was observed as early as 1 to 3 weeks , and persisted for the remaining 9 weeks of the study .
To aid in the interpretation of the bowel movement reduction results , the proportion of patients reporting any particular level of reduction in overall average bowel movement frequency is depicted in Figure 1 below .
For example , 33 % of patients randomized to Xermelo and 4 % of patients randomized to placebo experienced a reduction in overall average bowel movements from baseline of at least 2 bowel movements per day .
Figure 1 : Cumulative Proportion of Patients with Carcinoid Syndrome Diarrhea Reporting Change in Overall Average Bowel Movement Frequency [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other symptoms of carcinoid syndrome ( abdominal pain or flushing ) did not show improvement in the comparison of Xermelo to placebo .
The average number of daily short - acting octreotide injections used for rescue therapy over the 12 - week double - blind treatment period was 0 . 3 and 0 . 7 in the Xermelo and placebo groups , respectively .
In the subgroup of patients who received short - acting octreotide injections , observed reductions in the number of bowel movements per day and treatment differences were generally consistent with the reductions and differences observed in patients who did not receive rescue therapy , and were similar to the overall data presented in Table 2 above [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
A third randomized treatment arm of Xermelo 500 mg three times daily did not demonstrate additional treatment benefit on the primary endpoint and had a greater incidence of adverse reactions than Xermelo 250 mg three times daily .
Therefore , Xermelo 500 mg three times daily is not recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied 250 mg tablet : white to off - white coated oval tablet with “ T - E ” debossed on one side and “ 250 ” debossed on the other side .
Xermelo is dispensed in a monthly case for a total of 28 days of therapy .
Each monthly case contains four weekly packs .
Each weekly pack contains 21 tablets .
• NDC 70183 - 125 - 85 : Monthly case of 84 tablets .
Each child resistant weekly pack contains twenty one 250 mg tablets .
Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients : • If they experience severe constipation or severe persistent or worsening abdominal pain , to discontinue Xermelo and contact their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• To take Xermelo with food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• When short - acting octreotide is used in combination with Xermelo , administer short - acting octreotide at least 30 minutes after administering Xermelo [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
• If a dose is missed , take the next dose at the regular time .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
Distributed by : Lexicon Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
The Woodlands , TX 77381 Principal Display Panel - 3x7 weekly pack TO OPEN : 1 Press & hold button 2 Pull out card WEEKLY PACK 21 TABLETS Rx Only XERMELO ® ( telotristat ethyl ) tablets 250 mg per tablet Lexicon ® pharmaceuticals For oral use only .
As with all medications , keep out of reach of children .
NDC 70183 - 125 - 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 28 Day Case Label NDC 70183 - 125 - 85 Rx Only 28 DAY CASE 84 TABLETS XERMELO ® ( telotristat ethyl ) tablets 250 mg per tablet Lexicon ® pharmaceuticals For oral use only .
As with all medications , keep out of reach of children .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
