WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Edarbi as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Edarbi as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Edarbi is indicated for the treatment of hypertension to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes , including the class to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with Edarbi .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ' s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Edarbi may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
Edarbi is an angiotensin II receptor blocker indicated for the treatment of hypertension to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
Edarbi may be used either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose in adults is 80 mg taken once daily .
Consider a starting dose of 40 mg for patients who are treated with high doses of diuretics .
( 2 . 1 ) Edarbi may be administered with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) Edarbi may be administered with other antihypertensive agents .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose in adults is 80 mg taken orally once daily .
Consider a starting dose of 40 mg for patients who are treated with high doses of diuretics .
2 . 2 Handling Instructions Do not repackage Edarbi .
Dispense and store Edarbi in its original container to protect Edarbi from light and moisture .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Edarbi is supplied as white to nearly white round tablets in the following dosage strengths : • 40 - mg tablets – debossed " ASL " on one side and " 40 " on the other • 80 - mg tablets – debossed " ASL " on one side and " 80 " on the other Tablets : 40 mg and 80 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not coadminister aliskiren - containing products with Edarbi in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Do not coadminister aliskiren - containing products with Edarbi in patients with diabetes .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Edarbi .
( 5 . 2 ) • Monitor for worsening renal function in patients with renal impairment .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Edarbi can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Edarbi as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - and / or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initiation of treatment with Edarbi .
Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of Edarbi , or start treatment at 40 mg .
If hypotension does occur , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , given an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further treatment , which usually can be continued without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals treated with Edarbi .
In patients whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with severe congestive heart failure , renal artery stenosis , or volume depletion ) , treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers has been associated with oliguria or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and death .
Similar results may be anticipated in patients treated with Edarbi [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In studies of ACE inhibitors in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen have been reported .
There has been no long - term use of Edarbi in patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , but similar results may be expected .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction in adults was diarrhea ( 2 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Arbor Pharmaceuticals , LLC at 1 - 866 - 516 - 4950 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 4814 patients were evaluated for safety when treated with Edarbi at doses of 20 , 40 , or 80 mg in clinical trials .
This includes 1704 patients treated for at least six months ; of these , 588 were treated for at least one year .
Treatment with Edarbi was well - tolerated with an overall incidence of adverse reactions similar to placebo .
The rate of withdrawals due to adverse events in placebo - controlled monotherapy and combination therapy trials was 2 . 4 % ( 19 / 801 ) for placebo , 2 . 2 % ( 24 / 1072 ) for Edarbi 40 mg , and 2 . 7 % ( 29 / 1074 ) for Edarbi 80 mg .
The most common adverse event leading to discontinuation , hypotension / orthostatic hypotension , was reported by 0 . 4 % ( 8 / 2146 ) patients randomized to Edarbi 40 mg or 80 mg compared to 0 % ( 0 / 801 ) patients randomized to placebo .
Generally , adverse reactions were mild , not dose related , and similar regardless of age , gender , and race .
In placebo - controlled monotherapy trials , diarrhea was reported up to 2 % in patients treated with Edarbi 80 mg daily compared with 0 . 5 % of patients on placebo .
Other adverse reactions with a plausible relationship to treatment that have been reported with an incidence of ≥ 0 . 3 % and greater than placebo in more than 3300 patients treated with Edarbi in controlled trials are listed below : Gastrointestinal Disorders : nausea General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : asthenia , fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : muscle spasm Nervous System Disorders : dizziness , dizziness postural Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders : cough 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during the postmarketing use of EDARBI .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• Rash • Pruritus • Angioedema 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia .
( 7 ) Lithium : Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Non - steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents , including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or who have compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including azilsartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving azilsartan and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including azilsartan , may be attenuated by NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors .
7 . 2 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on Edarbi and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with Edarbi in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with Edarbi in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
7 . 3 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported during concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin II receptor agonists .
Monitor serum lithium levels during concomitant use .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended .
( 8 . 2 ) • Geriatric Patients : Abnormally high serum creatinine values were more likely to be reported for patients age 75 or older .
No overall difference in efficacy versus younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
( 8 . 5 ) • In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , as by volume - or salt - depletion , renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAAS ) blockers such as azilsartan medoxomil can cause excessive hypotension .
In susceptible patients , e . g . , with renal artery stenosis , RAAS blockers can cause renal failure ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) .
• Pediatrics : Safety and efficacy in children have not been established .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Edarbi can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue Edarbi as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension and death .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to Edarbi for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to Edarbi , if oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Data Animal Data In peri - and postnatal rat development studies , adverse effects on pup viability , delayed incisor eruption and dilatation of the renal pelvis along with hydronephrosis were seen when azilsartan medoxomil was administered to pregnant and nursing rats at 1 . 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
Reproductive toxicity studies indicated that azilsartan medoxomil was not teratogenic when administered at oral doses up to 1000 mg azilsartan medoxomil / kg / day to pregnant rats ( 122 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) or up to 50 mg azilsartan medoxomil / kg / day to pregnant rabbits ( 12 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
M - II also was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at doses up to 3000 mg M - II / kg / day .
Azilsartan crossed the placenta and was found in the fetuses of pregnant rats and was excreted into the milk of lactating rats .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is limited information regarding the presence of azilsartan in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Azilsartan is present in rat milk .
Because of the potential for adverse effects on the nursing infant , advise a nursing woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Edarbi .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dose adjustment with Edarbi is necessary in elderly patients .
Of the total patients in clinical studies with Edarbi , 26 % were elderly ( 65 years of age and older ) ; 5 % were 75 years of age and older .
Abnormally high serum creatinine values were more likely to be reported for patients age 75 or older .
No other differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly patients and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild - to - severe renal impairment or end - stage renal disease .
Patients with moderate to severe renal impairment are more likely to report abnormally high serum creatinine values .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary for subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Edarbi has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Limited data are available related to overdosage in humans .
During controlled clinical trials in healthy subjects , once - daily doses up to 320 mg of Edarbi were administered for seven days and were well tolerated .
In the event of an overdose , supportive therapy should be instituted as dictated by the patient ' s clinical status .
Azilsartan is not dialyzable [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
11 DESCRIPTION Edarbi ( azilsartan medoxomil ) , a prodrug , is hydrolyzed to azilsartan in the gastrointestinal tract during absorption .
Azilsartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker .
The drug substance used in the drug product formulation is the potassium salt of azilsartan medoxomil , also known by the US accepted name of azilsartan kamedoxomil and is chemically described as ( 5 - Methyl - 2 - oxo - 1 , 3 - dioxol - 4 - yl ) methyl 2 - ethoxy - 1 - { [ 2 ' - ( 5 - oxo - 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - oxadiazol - 3 - yl ) biphenyl - 4 - yl ] methyl } - 1 H - benzimidazole - 7 - carboxylate monopotassium salt .
Its empirical formula is C30H23KN4O8 and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Azilsartan kamedoxomil is a white to nearly white powder with a molecular weight of 606 . 62 .
It is practically insoluble in water and freely soluble in methanol .
Edarbi is available for oral use as tablets .
The tablets have a characteristic odor .
Each Edarbi tablet contains 42 . 68 or 85 . 36 mg of azilsartan kamedoxomil , which is equivalent to containing 40 mg or 80 mg respectively , of azilsartan medoxomil and the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , fumaric acid , sodium hydroxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , microcrystalline cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzymes ( ACE , kinase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Azilsartan medoxomil is an orally administered prodrug that is rapidly converted by esterases during absorption to the active moiety , azilsartan .
Azilsartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is , therefore , independent of the pathway for angiotensin II synthesis .
An AT2 receptor is also found in many tissues , but this receptor is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Azilsartan has more than a 10 , 000 - fold greater affinity for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Blockade of the renin - angiotensin system with ACE inhibitors , which inhibit the biosynthesis of angiotensin II from angiotensin I , is widely used in the treatment of hypertension .
ACE inhibitors also inhibit the degradation of bradykinin , a reaction catalyzed by ACE .
Because azilsartan does not inhibit ACE ( kinase II ) , it should not affect bradykinin levels .
Whether this difference has clinical relevance is not yet known .
Azilsartan does not bind to or block other receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of azilsartan on blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Azilsartan inhibits the pressor effects of an angiotensin II infusion in a dose - related manner .
An azilsartan single dose equivalent to 32 mg azilsartan medoxomil inhibited the maximal pressor effect by approximately 90 % at peak , and approximately 60 % at 24 hours .
Plasma angiotensin I and II concentrations and plasma renin activity increased while plasma aldosterone concentrations decreased after single and repeated administration of Edarbi to healthy subjects ; no clinically significant effects on serum potassium or sodium were observed .
Effect on Cardiac Repolarization A thorough QT / QTc study was conducted to assess the potential of azilsartan to prolong the QT / QTc interval in healthy subjects .
There was no evidence of QT / QTc prolongation at a dose of 320 mg of Edarbi .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Azilsartan medoxomil is hydrolyzed to azilsartan , the active metabolite , in the gastrointestinal tract during absorption .
Azilsartan medoxomil is not detected in plasma after oral administration .
Dose proportionality in exposure was established for azilsartan in the azilsartan medoxomil dose range of 20 mg to 320 mg after single or multiple dosing .
The estimated absolute bioavailability of azilsartan following administration of azilsartan medoxomil is approximately 60 % .
After oral administration of azilsartan medoxomil , peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of azilsartan are reached within 1 . 5 to 3 hours .
Food does not affect the bioavailability of azilsartan .
Distribution The volume of distribution of azilsartan is approximately 16 L . Azilsartan is highly bound to human plasma proteins ( > 99 % ) , mainly serum albumin .
Protein binding is constant at azilsartan plasma concentrations well above the range achieved with recommended doses .
In rats , minimal azilsartan - associated radioactivity crossed the blood - brain barrier .
Azilsartan passed across the placental barrier in pregnant rats and was distributed to the fetus .
Metabolism and Elimination Azilsartan is metabolized to two primary metabolites .
The major metabolite in plasma is formed by O - dealkylation , referred to as metabolite M - II , and the minor metabolite is formed by decarboxylation , referred to as metabolite M - I .
Systemic exposures to the major and minor metabolites in humans were approximately 50 % and less than 1 % of azilsartan , respectively .
M - I and M - II do not contribute to the pharmacologic activity of Edarbi .
The major enzyme responsible for azilsartan metabolism is CYP2C9 .
Following an oral dose of 14 C - labeled azilsartan medoxomil , approximately 55 % of radioactivity was recovered in feces and approximately 42 % in urine , with 15 % of the dose excreted in urine as azilsartan .
The elimination half - life of azilsartan is approximately 11 hours and renal clearance is approximately 2 . 3 mL / min .
Steady - state levels of azilsartan are achieved within five days , and no accumulation in plasma occurs with repeated once - daily dosing .
Specific Populations The effect of demographic and functional factors on the pharmacokinetics of azilsartan was studied in single and multiple dose studies .
Pharmacokinetic measures indicating the magnitude of the effect on azilsartan are presented in Figure 1 as change relative to reference ( test / reference ) .
Effects are modest and do not call for dosage adjustment .
Figure 1 .
Impact of intrinsic factors on the pharmacokinetics of azilsartan [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Drug Interactions No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed in studies of azilsartan medoxomil or azilsartan given with amlodipine , antacids , chlorthalidone , digoxin , fluconazole , glyburide , ketoconazole , metformin , pioglitazone , and warfarin .
Therefore , Edarbi may be used concomitantly with these medications .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Azilsartan medoxomil was not carcinogenic when assessed in 26 - week transgenic ( Tg . rasH2 ) mouse and two - year rat studies .
The highest doses tested ( 450 mg azilsartan medoxomil / kg / day in the mouse and 600 mg azilsartan medoxomil / kg / day in the rat ) produced exposures to azilsartan that are 12 ( mice ) and 27 ( rats ) times the average exposure to azilsartan in humans given the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD , 80 mg azilsartan medoxomil / day ) .
M - II was not carcinogenic when assessed in 26 - week Tg . rasH2 mouse and two - year rat studies .
The highest doses tested ( approximately 8000 mg M - II / kg / day [ males ] and 11 , 000 mg M - II / kg / day [ females ] in the mouse and 1000 mg M - II / kg / day [ males ] and up to 3000 mg M - II / kg / day [ females ] in the rat ) produced exposures that are , on average , about 30 ( mice ) and seven ( rats ) times the average exposure to M - II in humans at the MRHD .
Mutagenesis Azilsartan medoxomil , azilsartan , and M - II were positive for structural aberrations in the Chinese Hamster Lung Cytogenetic Assay .
In this assay , structural chromosomal aberrations were observed with the prodrug , azilsartan medoxomil , without metabolic activation .
The active moiety , azilsartan was also positive in this assay both with and without metabolic activation .
The major human metabolite , M - II was also positive in this assay during a 24 - hour assay without metabolic activation .
Azilsartan medoxomil , azilsartan , and M - II were devoid of genotoxic potential in the Ames reverse mutation assay with Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli , the in vitro Chinese Hamster Ovary Cell forward mutation assay , the in vitro mouse lymphoma ( tk ) gene mutation test , the ex vivo unscheduled DNA synthesis test , and the in vivo mouse and / or rat bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility There was no effect of azilsartan medoxomil on the fertility of male or female rats at oral doses of up to 1000 mg azilsartan medoxomil / kg / day ( 6000 mg / m2 [ approximately 122 times the MRHD of 80 mg azilsartan medoxomil / 60 kg on a mg / m2 basis ] ) .
Fertility of rats also was unaffected at doses of up to 3000 mg M - II / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The antihypertensive effects of Edarbi have been demonstrated in a total of seven double - blind , randomized studies , which included five placebo - controlled and four active comparator - controlled studies ( not mutually exclusive ) .
The studies ranged from six weeks to six months in duration , at doses ranging from 20 mg to 80 mg once daily .
A total of 5941 patients ( 3672 given Edarbi , 801 given placebo , and 1468 given active comparator ) with mild , moderate or severe hypertension were studied .
Overall , 51 % of patients were male and 26 % were 65 years or older ; 67 % were white and 19 % were black .
Two 6 - week , randomized , double - blind studies compared the effect on blood pressure of Edarbi at doses of 40 mg and 80 mg , with placebo and with active comparators .
Blood pressure reductions compared to placebo based on clinic blood pressure measurements at trough and 24 - hour mean blood pressure by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring ( ABPM ) are shown in Table 1 for both studies .
Edarbi , 80 mg , was statistically superior to placebo and active comparators for both clinic and 24 - hour mean blood pressure measurements .
Table 1 .
Placebo Corrected Mean Change from Baseline in Systolic / Diastolic Blood Pressure at 6 Weeks ( mm Hg ) Study 1 N = 1285 Study 2 N = 989 Clinic Blood Pressure ( Mean Baseline 157 . 4 / 92 . 5 ) 24 Hour Mean by ABPM ( Mean Baseline 144 . 9 / 88 . 7 ) Clinic Blood Pressure ( Mean Baseline 159 . 0 / 91 . 8 ) 24 Hour Mean by ABPM ( Mean Baseline 146 . 2 / 87 . 6 ) Edarbi 40 mg - 14 . 6 / - 6 . 2 - 13 . 2 / - 8 . 6 - 12 . 4 / - 7 . 1 - 12 . 1 / - 7 . 7 Edarbi 80 mg - 14 . 9 / - 7 . 5 - 14 . 3 / - 9 . 4 - 15 . 5 / - 8 . 6 - 13 . 2 / - 7 . 9 Olmesartan 40 mg - 11 . 4 / - 5 . 3 - 11 . 7 / - 7 . 7 - 12 . 8 / - 7 . 1 - 11 . 2 / - 7 . 0 Valsartan 320 mg - 9 . 5 / - 4 . 4 - 10 . 0 / - 7 . 0 In a study comparing Edarbi to valsartan over 24 weeks , similar results were observed .
Most of the antihypertensive effect occurs within the first two weeks of dosing .
Figure 2 shows the 24 - hour ambulatory systolic and diastolic blood pressure profiles at endpoint .
Figure 2 .
Mean Ambulatory Blood Pressure at 6 Weeks by Dose and Hour [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other studies showed similar 24 - hour ambulatory blood pressure profiles .
Edarbi has a sustained and consistent antihypertensive effect during long - term treatment , as shown in a study that randomized patients to placebo or continued Edarbi after 26 weeks .
No rebound effect was observed following the abrupt cessation of Edarbi therapy .
Edarbi was effective in reducing blood pressure regardless of the age , gender , or race of patients , but the effect , as monotherapy , was smaller , approximately half , in black patients , who tend to have low renin levels .
This has been generally true for other angiotensin II antagonists and ACE inhibitors .
Edarbi has about its usual blood pressure lowering effect size when added to a calcium channel blocker ( amlodipine ) or a thiazide - type diuretic ( chlorthalidone ) .
There are no trials of Edarbi demonstrating reductions in cardiovascular risk in patients with hypertension , but at least one pharmacologically similar drug has demonstrated such benefits .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Edarbi tablets are unscored and white to nearly white , debossed with " ASL " on one side and " 40 " or " 80 " on the other .
Tablet NDC 60631 - xxx - xx Bottle / 30 40 mg 040 - 30 80 mg 080 - 30 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep container tightly closed .
Protect from moisture and light .
Do not repackage ; dispense and store in original container .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Pregnancy Tell female patients of childbearing potential about the consequences of exposure to Edarbi during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Tell patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Patient Information Edarbi ( eh - DAR - bee ) ( azilsartan medoxomil ) Tablets Read this Patient Information leaflet before you start taking Edarbi and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Edarbi ?
• Edarbi can cause harm or death to your unborn baby .
• Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
• If you become pregnant while taking Edarbi , tell your doctor right away .
Your doctor may switch you to a different medicine to treat your high blood pressure .
What is Edarbi ?
Edarbi is a prescription medicine called an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) in adults .
Your doctor may prescribe other medicines for you to take along with Edarbi to treat your high blood pressure .
It is not known if Edarbi is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Edarbi ?
Before you take Edarbi , tell your doctor if you : • have been told that you have abnormal body salt ( electrolytes ) levels in your blood • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Edarbi ? "
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Edarbi passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Edarbi or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take Edarbi .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • other medicines used to treat your high blood pressure or heart problem • water pills ( diuretic ) Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking a medicine listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Edarbi ?
• Your doctor will tell you how much Edarbi to take and when to take it .
Follow his / her instructions .
• Edarbi can be taken with or without food .
• If you take too much Edarbi , call your doctor or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of Edarbi ?
Edarbi may cause side effects , including : • Harm or death to your unborn fetus if taken in the second or third trimester .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Edarbi ? "
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) and dizziness is most likely to happen if you also : • take water pills ( diuretics ) • are on a low - salt diet • take other medicines that affect your blood pressure • get sick with vomiting or diarrhea • do not drink enough fluids If you feel faint or dizzy , lie down and call your doctor right away .
These are not all the possible side effects with Edarbi .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store Edarbi ?
• Store Edarbi at 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Store Edarbi in the original container that you received from your pharmacist or doctor .
Do not put Edarbi into a different container .
• Keep Edarbi in a tightly closed container , and keep Edarbi out of the light .
Keep Edarbi and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about Edarbi .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not give Edarbi to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Edarbi .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Edarbi that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . edarbi . com or call 1 - 866 - 516 - 4950 .
What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too great .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood through the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
Edarbi tablets can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
Medicines that lower your blood pressure may lower your chance of having a stroke or heart attack .
What are the ingredients in Edarbi ?
Active ingredient : azilsartan medoxomil Inactive ingredients : mannitol , fumaric acid , sodium hydroxide , hydroxypropyl cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , microcrystalline cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
Manufactured by : Takeda Ireland Manufactured for : arbor ® PHARMACEUTICALS , LLC Atlanta , GA 30328 Revised : MARCH 2020 Edarbi is a trademark of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited registered with the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office and used under license by Arbor Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
© 2020 Arbor Pharmaceuticals , LLC EB - PI - 06 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 60631 - 040 - 30 30 Tablets edarbi ( azilsartan medoxomil ) tablets 40 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 60631 - 080 - 30 30 Tablets edarbi ( azilsartan medoxomil ) tablets 80 mg Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
