1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ULORIC ® is a xanthine oxidase ( XO ) inhibitor indicated for the chronic management of hyperuricemia in patients with gout .
ULORIC is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia .
ULORIC is a xanthine oxidase ( XO ) inhibitor indicated for the chronic management of hyperuricemia in patients with gout .
( 1 ) ULORIC is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • ULORIC is recommended at 40 mg or 80 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily .
For patients who do not achieve a serum uric acid ( sUA ) less than 6 mg per dL after 2 weeks with 40 mg , ULORIC 80 mg is recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) • ULORIC can be administered without regard to food or antacid use .
( 2 . 1 ) • No dose adjustment is necessary when administering ULORIC to patients with mild to moderate renal or hepatic impairment .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose For treatment of hyperuricemia in patients with gout , ULORIC is recommended at 40 mg or 80 mg once daily .
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily .
For patients who do not achieve a serum uric acid ( sUA ) less than 6 mg per dL after 2 weeks with 40 mg , ULORIC 80 mg is recommended .
ULORIC can be taken without regard to food or antacid use [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 2 Special Populations No dose adjustment is necessary when administering ULORIC in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily .
For patients who do not achieve a sUA less than 6 mg per dL after 2 weeks with 40 mg , ULORIC 80 mg is recommended .
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Uric Acid Level Testing for the target serum uric acid level of less than 6 mg per dL may be performed as early as 2 weeks after initiating ULORIC therapy .
2 . 4 Gout Flares Gout flares may occur after initiation of ULORIC due to changing serum uric acid levels resulting in mobilization of urate from tissue deposits .
Flare prophylaxis with a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) or colchicine is recommended upon initiation of ULORIC .
Prophylactic therapy may be beneficial for up to six months [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
If a gout flare occurs during ULORIC treatment , ULORIC need not be discontinued .
The gout flare should be managed concurrently , as appropriate for the individual patient [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 40 mg tablets , light green to green , round shaped , debossed with " TAP " and " 40 " • 80 mg tablets , light green to green , teardrop shaped , debossed with " TAP " and " 80 " Tablet : 40 mg , 80 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ULORIC is contraindicated in patients being treated with azathioprine , mercaptopurine , or theophylline [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
ULORIC is contraindicated in patients being treated with azathioprine , mercaptopurine , or theophylline .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Gout Flare : An increase in gout flares is frequently observed during initiation of anti - hyperuricemic agents , including ULORIC .
If a gout flare occurs during treatment , ULORIC need not be discontinued .
Prophylactic therapy ( i . e . , non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) or colchicine upon initiation of treatment ) may be beneficial for up to six months .
( 2 . 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Cardiovascular Events : A higher rate of cardiovascular thromboembolic events was observed in patients treated with ULORIC than allopurinol in clinical trials .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of MI and stroke .
( 5 . 2 ) • Liver Enzyme Elevation : Transaminase elevations have been observed in ULORIC - treated patients .
Monitor liver function tests periodically .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Gout Flare After initiation of ULORIC , an increase in gout flares is frequently observed .
This increase is due to reduction in serum uric acid levels resulting in mobilization of urate from tissue deposits .
In order to prevent gout flares when ULORIC is initiated , concurrent prophylactic treatment with an NSAID or colchicine is recommended [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiovascular Events In the randomized controlled studies , there was a higher rate of cardiovascular thromboembolic events ( cardiovascular deaths , non - fatal myocardial infarctions , and non - fatal strokes ) in patients treated with ULORIC [ 0 . 74 per 100 P - Y ( 95 % CI 0 . 36 - 1 . 37 ) ] than allopurinol [ 0 . 60 per 100 P - Y ( 95 % CI 0 . 16 - 1 . 53 ) ] [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
A causal relationship with ULORIC has not been established .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of myocardial infarction ( MI ) and stroke .
5 . 3 Liver Enzyme Elevations During randomized controlled studies , transaminase elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) were observed ( AST : 2 % , 2 % , and ALT : 3 % , 2 % in ULORIC and allopurinol - treated patients , respectively ) .
No dose - effect relationship for these transaminase elevations was noted .
Laboratory assessment of liver function is recommended at , for example , 2 and 4 months following initiation of ULORIC and periodically thereafter .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 % of ULORIC - treated patients , and , at least 0 . 5 % greater than placebo , are liver function abnormalities , nausea , arthralgia , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Takeda Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 825 - 3327 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
A total of 2757 subjects with hyperuricemia and gout were treated with ULORIC 40 mg or 80 mg daily in clinical studies .
For ULORIC 40 mg , 559 patients were treated for ≥ 6 months .
For ULORIC 80 mg , 1377 subjects were treated for ≥ 6 months , 674 patients were treated for ≥ 1 year and 515 patients were treated for ≥ 2 years .
Most Common Adverse Reactions In three randomized , controlled clinical studies ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) , which were 6 to 12 months in duration , the following adverse reactions were reported by the treating physician as related to study drug .
Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions reported at a rate of at least 1 % in ULORIC treatment groups and at least 0 . 5 % greater than placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of ULORIC - Treated Patients and at Least 0 . 5 % Greater than Seen in Patients Receiving Placebo in Controlled Studies Adverse Reactions Placebo ULORIC allopurinol [ 1 ] ( N = 134 ) 40 mg daily ( N = 757 ) 80 mg daily ( N = 1279 ) ( N = 1277 ) Liver Function Abnormalities 0 . 7 % 6 . 6 % 4 . 6 % 4 . 2 % Nausea 0 . 7 % 1 . 1 % 1 . 3 % 0 . 8 % Arthralgia 0 % 1 . 1 % 0 . 7 % 0 . 7 % Rash 0 . 7 % 0 . 5 % 1 . 6 % 1 . 6 % [ 1 ] Of the subjects who received allopurinol , 10 received 100 mg , 145 received 200 mg , and 1122 received 300 mg , based on level of renal impairment .
The most common adverse reaction leading to discontinuation from therapy was liver function abnormalities in 1 . 8 % of ULORIC 40 mg , 1 . 2 % of ULORIC 80 mg , and in 0 . 9 % of allopurinol - treated subjects .
In addition to the adverse reactions presented in Table 1 , dizziness was reported in more than 1 % of ULORIC - treated subjects although not at a rate more than 0 . 5 % greater than placebo .
Less Common Adverse Reactions In phase 2 and 3 clinical studies the following adverse reactions occurred in less than 1 % of subjects and in more than one subject treated with doses ranging from 40 mg to 240 mg of ULORIC .
This list also includes adverse reactions ( less than 1 % of subjects ) associated with organ systems from Warnings and Precautions .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : anemia , idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura , leukocytosis / leukopenia , neutropenia , pancytopenia , splenomegaly , thrombocytopenia .
Cardiac Disorders : angina pectoris , atrial fibrillation / flutter , cardiac murmur , ECG abnormal , palpitations , sinus bradycardia , tachycardia .
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : deafness , tinnitus , vertigo .
Eye Disorders : vision blurred .
Gastrointestinal Disorders : abdominal distention , abdominal pain , constipation , dry mouth , dyspepsia , flatulence , frequent stools , gastritis , gastroesophageal reflux disease , gastrointestinal discomfort , gingival pain , haematemesis , hyperchlorhydria , hematochezia , mouth ulceration , pancreatitis , peptic ulcer , vomiting .
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : asthenia , chest pain / discomfort , edema , fatigue , feeling abnormal , gait disturbance , influenza - like symptoms , mass , pain , thirst .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : cholelithiasis / cholecystitis , hepatic steatosis , hepatitis , hepatomegaly .
Immune System Disorder : hypersensitivity .
Infections and Infestations : herpes zoster .
Procedural Complications : contusion .
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : anorexia , appetite decreased / increased , dehydration , diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , hyperlipidemia , hypertriglyceridemia , hypokalemia , weight decreased / increased .
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : arthritis , joint stiffness , joint swelling , muscle spasms / twitching / tightness / weakness , musculoskeletal pain / stiffness , myalgia .
Nervous System Disorders : altered taste , balance disorder , cerebrovascular accident , Guillain - Barré syndrome , headache , hemiparesis , hypoesthesia , hyposmia , lacunar infarction , lethargy , mental impairment , migraine , paresthesia , somnolence , transient ischemic attack , tremor .
Psychiatric Disorders : agitation , anxiety , depression , insomnia , irritability , libido decreased , nervousness , panic attack , personality change .
Renal and Urinary Disorders : hematuria , nephrolithiasis , pollakiuria , proteinuria , renal failure , renal insufficiency , urgency , incontinence .
Reproductive System and Breast Changes : breast pain , erectile dysfunction , gynecomastia .
Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : bronchitis , cough , dyspnea , epistaxis , nasal dryness , paranasal sinus hypersecretion , pharyngeal edema , respiratory tract congestion , sneezing , throat irritation , upper respiratory tract infection .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : alopecia , angio - edema , dermatitis , dermographism , ecchymosis , eczema , hair color changes , hair growth abnormal , hyperhidrosis , peeling skin , petechiae , photosensitivity , pruritus , purpura , skin discoloration / altered pigmentation , skin lesion , skin odor abnormal , urticaria .
Vascular Disorders : flushing , hot flush , hypertension , hypotension .
Laboratory Parameters : activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged , creatine increased , bicarbonate decreased , sodium increased , EEG abnormal , glucose increased , cholesterol increased , triglycerides increased , amylase increased , potassium increased , TSH increased , platelet count decreased , hematocrit decreased , hemoglobin decreased , MCV increased , RBC decreased , creatinine increased , blood urea increased , BUN / creatinine ratio increased , creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) increased , alkaline phosphatase increased , LDH increased , PSA increased , urine output increased / decreased , lymphocyte count decreased , neutrophil count decreased , WBC increased / decreased , coagulation test abnormal , low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) increased , prothrombin time prolonged , urinary casts , urine positive for white blood cells and protein .
Cardiovascular Safety Cardiovascular events and deaths were adjudicated to one of the pre - defined endpoints from the Anti - Platelet Trialists ' Collaborations ( APTC ) ( cardiovascular death , non - fatal myocardial infarction , and non - fatal stroke ) in the randomized controlled and long - term extension studies .
In the Phase 3 randomized controlled studies , the incidences of adjudicated APTC events per 100 patient - years of exposure were : Placebo 0 ( 95 % CI 0 . 00 - 6 . 16 ) , ULORIC 40 mg 0 ( 95 % CI 0 . 00 - 1 . 08 ) , ULORIC 80 mg 1 . 09 ( 95 % CI 0 . 44 - 2 . 24 ) , and allopurinol 0 . 60 ( 95 % CI 0 . 16 - 1 . 53 ) .
In the long - term extension studies , the incidences of adjudicated APTC events were : ULORIC 80 mg 0 . 97 ( 95 % CI 0 . 57 - 1 . 56 ) , and allopurinol 0 . 58 ( 95 % CI 0 . 02 - 3 . 24 ) .
Overall , a higher rate of APTC events was observed in ULORIC than in allopurinol - treated patients .
A causal relationship with ULORIC has not been established .
Monitor for signs and symptoms of MI and stroke .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant administration of ULORIC with XO substrate drugs , azathioprine , mercaptopurine , or theophylline could increase plasma concentrations of these drugs resulting in severe toxicity .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Xanthine Oxidase Substrate Drugs ULORIC is an XO inhibitor .
Drug interaction studies of ULORIC with drugs that are metabolized by XO ( e . g . , theophylline , mercaptopurine , azathioprine ) have not been conducted .
Inhibition of XO by ULORIC may cause increased plasma concentrations of these drugs leading to toxicity [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
ULORIC is contraindicated in patients being treated with azathioprine , mercaptopurine , or theophylline [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Cytotoxic Chemotherapy Drugs Drug interaction studies of ULORIC with cytotoxic chemotherapy have not been conducted .
No data are available regarding the safety of ULORIC during cytotoxic chemotherapy .
7 . 3 In Vivo Drug Interaction Studies Based on drug interaction studies in healthy subjects , ULORIC does not have clinically significant interactions with colchicine , naproxen , indomethacin , hydrochlorothiazide , warfarin or desipramine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Therefore , ULORIC may be used concomitantly with these medications .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • There is insufficient data in patients with severe renal impairment .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Caution should be exercised in these patients .
( 8 . 6 , 8 . 7 ) • No studies have been conducted in patients with secondary hyperuricemia ( including patients being treated for Lesch - Nyhan syndrome or malignant disease , or in organ transplant recipients ) ; therefore , ULORIC is not recommended for use in these patients .
( 8 . 8 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
ULORIC should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Febuxostat was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to 48 mg per kg ( 40 and 51 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day for equal body surface area , respectively ) during organogenesis .
However , increased neonatal mortality and a reduction in the neonatal body weight gain were observed when pregnant rats were treated with oral doses up to 48 mg per kg ( 40 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day ) during organogenesis and through lactation period .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Febuxostat is excreted in the milk of rats .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ULORIC is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No dose adjustment is necessary in elderly patients .
Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of ULORIC , 16 percent were 65 and over , while 4 percent were 75 and over .
Comparing subjects in different age groups , no clinically significant differences in safety or effectiveness were observed but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
The Cmax and AUC24 of febuxostat following multiple oral doses of ULORIC in geriatric subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) were similar to those in younger subjects ( 18 - 40 years ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment ( Clcr 30 - 89 mL per min ) .
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily .
For patients who do not achieve a sUA less than 6 mg per dL after 2 weeks with 40 mg , ULORIC 80 mg is recommended .
There are insufficient data in patients with severe renal impairment ( Clcr less than 30 mL per min ) ; therefore , caution should be exercised in these patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A or B ) .
No studies have been conducted in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) ; therefore , caution should be exercised in these patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 8 Secondary Hyperuricemia No studies have been conducted in patients with secondary hyperuricemia ( including organ transplant recipients ) ; ULORIC is not recommended for use in patients whom the rate of urate formation is greatly increased ( e . g . , malignant disease and its treatment , Lesch - Nyhan syndrome ) .
The concentration of xanthine in urine could , in rare cases , rise sufficiently to allow deposition in the urinary tract .
10 OVERDOSAGE ULORIC was studied in healthy subjects in doses up to 300 mg daily for seven days without evidence of dose - limiting toxicities .
No overdose of ULORIC was reported in clinical studies .
Patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care should there be an overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION ULORIC ( febuxostat ) is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor .
The active ingredient in ULORIC is 2 - [ 3 - cyano - 4 - ( 2 - methylpropoxy ) phenyl ] - 4 - methylthiazole - 5 - carboxylic acid , with a molecular weight of 316 . 38 .
The empirical formula is C16H16N2O3S .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Febuxostat is a non - hygroscopic , white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in dimethylformamide ; soluble in dimethylsulfoxide ; sparingly soluble in ethanol ; slightly soluble in methanol and acetonitrile ; and practically insoluble in water .
The melting range is 205 ° C to 208 ° C . ULORIC tablets for oral use contain the active ingredient , febuxostat , and are available in two dosage strengths , 40 mg and 80 mg .
Inactive ingredients include lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , sodium croscarmellose , silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate .
ULORIC tablets are coated with Opadry II , green .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action ULORIC , a xanthine oxidase inhibitor , achieves its therapeutic effect by decreasing serum uric acid .
ULORIC is not expected to inhibit other enzymes involved in purine and pyrimidine synthesis and metabolism at therapeutic concentrations .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effect on Uric Acid and Xanthine Concentrations : In healthy subjects , ULORIC resulted in a dose dependent decrease in 24 - hour mean serum uric acid concentrations , and an increase in 24 - hour mean serum xanthine concentrations .
In addition , there was a decrease in the total daily urinary uric acid excretion .
Also , there was an increase in total daily urinary xanthine excretion .
Percent reduction in 24 - hour mean serum uric acid concentrations was between 40 % to 55 % at the exposure levels of 40 mg and 80 mg daily doses .
Effect on Cardiac Repolarization : The effect of ULORIC on cardiac repolarization as assessed by the QTc interval was evaluated in normal healthy subjects and in patients with gout .
ULORIC in doses up to 300 mg daily , at steady state , did not demonstrate an effect on the QTc interval .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics In healthy subjects , maximum plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and AUC of febuxostat increased in a dose proportional manner following single and multiple doses of 10 mg to 120 mg .
There is no accumulation when therapeutic doses are administered every 24 hours .
Febuxostat has an apparent mean terminal elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of approximately 5 to 8 hours .
Febuxostat pharmacokinetic parameters for patients with hyperuricemia and gout estimated by population pharmacokinetic analyses were similar to those estimated in healthy subjects .
Absorption : The absorption of radiolabeled febuxostat following oral dose administration was estimated to be at least 49 % ( based on total radioactivity recovered in urine ) .
Maximum plasma concentrations of febuxostat occurred between 1 to 1 . 5 hours post - dose .
After multiple oral 40 mg and 80 mg once daily doses , Cmax is approximately 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 mcg per mL ( N = 30 ) , and 2 . 6 ± 1 . 7 mcg per mL ( N = 227 ) , respectively .
Absolute bioavailability of the febuxostat tablet has not been studied .
Following multiple 80 mg once daily doses with a high fat meal , there was a 49 % decrease in Cmax and an 18 % decrease in AUC , respectively .
However , no clinically significant change in the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentration was observed ( 58 % fed vs . 51 % fasting ) .
Thus , ULORIC may be taken without regard to food .
Concomitant ingestion of an antacid containing magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide with an 80 mg single dose of ULORIC has been shown to delay absorption of febuxostat ( approximately 1 hour ) and to cause a 31 % decrease in Cmax and a 15 % decrease in AUC ∞ .
As AUC rather than Cmax was related to drug effect , change observed in AUC was not considered clinically significant .
Therefore , ULORIC may be taken without regard to antacid use .
Distribution : The mean apparent steady state volume of distribution ( Vss / F ) of febuxostat was approximately 50 L ( CV ~ 40 % ) .
The plasma protein binding of febuxostat is approximately 99 . 2 % , ( primarily to albumin ) , and is constant over the concentration range achieved with 40 mg and 80 mg doses .
Metabolism : Febuxostat is extensively metabolized by both conjugation via uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) enzymes including UGT1A1 , UGT1A3 , UGT1A9 , and UGT2B7 and oxidation via cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes including CYP1A2 , 2C8 and 2C9 and non - P450 enzymes .
The relative contribution of each enzyme isoform in the metabolism of febuxostat is not clear .
The oxidation of the isobutyl side chain leads to the formation of four pharmacologically active hydroxy metabolites , all of which occur in plasma of humans at a much lower extent than febuxostat .
In urine and feces , acyl glucuronide metabolites of febuxostat ( ~ 35 % of the dose ) , and oxidative metabolites , 67 M - 1 ( ~ 10 % of the dose ) , 67 M - 2 ( ~ 11 % of the dose ) , and 67 M - 4 , a secondary metabolite from 67 M - 1 , ( ~ 14 % of the dose ) appeared to be the major metabolites of febuxostat in vivo .
Elimination : Febuxostat is eliminated by both hepatic and renal pathways .
Following an 80 mg oral dose of 14 C - labeled febuxostat , approximately 49 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as unchanged febuxostat ( 3 % ) , the acyl glucuronide of the drug ( 30 % ) , its known oxidative metabolites and their conjugates ( 13 % ) , and other unknown metabolites ( 3 % ) .
In addition to the urinary excretion , approximately 45 % of the dose was recovered in the feces as the unchanged febuxostat ( 12 % ) , the acyl glucuronide of the drug ( 1 % ) , its known oxidative metabolites and their conjugates ( 25 % ) , and other unknown metabolites ( 7 % ) .
The apparent mean terminal elimination half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of febuxostat was approximately 5 to 8 hours .
Special Populations Pediatric Use : The pharmacokinetics of ULORIC in patients under the age of 18 years have not been studied .
Geriatric Use : The Cmax and AUC of febuxostat and its metabolites following multiple oral doses of ULORIC in geriatric subjects ( ≥ 65 years ) were similar to those in younger subjects ( 18 - 40 years ) .
In addition , the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentration was similar between elderly and younger subjects .
No dose adjustment is necessary in geriatric patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : Following multiple 80 mg doses of ULORIC in healthy subjects with mild ( Clcr 50 - 80 mL per min ) , moderate ( Clcr 30 - 49 mL per min ) or severe renal impairment ( Clcr 10 - 29 mL per min ) , the Cmax of febuxostat did not change relative to subjects with normal renal function ( Clcr greater than 80 mL per min ) .
AUC and half - life of febuxostat increased in subjects with renal impairment in comparison to subjects with normal renal function , but values were similar among three renal impairment groups .
Mean febuxostat AUC values were up to 1 . 8 times higher in subjects with renal impairment compared to those with normal renal function .
Mean Cmax and AUC values for 3 active metabolites increased up to 2 - and 4 - fold , respectively .
However , the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentration for subjects with renal impairment was comparable to those with normal renal function ( 58 % in normal renal function group and 55 % in the severe renal function group ) .
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
The recommended starting dose of ULORIC is 40 mg once daily .
For patients who do not achieve a sUA less than 6 mg per dL after 2 weeks with 40 mg , ULORIC 80 mg is recommended .
There is insufficient data in patients with severe renal impairment ; caution should be exercised in those patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
ULORIC has not been studied in end stage renal impairment patients who are on dialysis .
Hepatic Impairment : Following multiple 80 mg doses of ULORIC in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh Class A ) or moderate ( Child - Pugh Class B ) hepatic impairment , an average of 20 - 30 % increase was observed for both Cmax and AUC24 ( total and unbound ) in hepatic impairment groups compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
In addition , the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentration was comparable between different hepatic groups ( 62 % in healthy group , 49 % in mild hepatic impairment group , and 48 % in moderate hepatic impairment group ) .
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
No studies have been conducted in subjects with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) ; caution should be exercised in those patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Gender : Following multiple oral doses of ULORIC , the Cmax and AUC24 of febuxostat were 30 % and 14 % higher in females than in males , respectively .
However , weight - corrected Cmax and AUC were similar between the genders .
In addition , the percent decrease in serum uric acid concentrations was similar between genders .
No dose adjustment is necessary based on gender .
Race : No specific pharmacokinetic study was conducted to investigate the effects of race .
Drug - Drug Interactions Effect of ULORIC on Other Drugs Xanthine Oxidase Substrate Drugs - Azathioprine , Mercaptopurine , and Theophylline : Febuxostat is an XO inhibitor .
Drug interaction studies of ULORIC with drugs that are metabolized by XO ( e . g . , theophylline , mercaptopurine , azathioprine ) have not been conducted .
Inhibition of XO by ULORIC may cause increased plasma concentrations of these drugs leading to toxicity .
ULORIC is contraindicated in patients being treated with azathioprine , mercaptopurine , and theophylline [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Azathioprine and mercaptopurine undergo metabolism via three major metabolic pathways , one of which is mediated by XO .
Although ULORIC drug interaction studies with azathioprine and mercaptopurine have not been conducted , concomitant administration of allopurinol [ a xanthine oxidase inhibitor ] with azathioprine or mercaptopurine has been reported to substantially increase plasma concentrations of these drugs .
Because ULORIC is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor , it could inhibit the XO - mediated metabolism of azathioprine and mercaptopurine leading to increased plasma concentrations of azathioprine or mercaptopurine that could result in severe toxicity .
Theophylline is a CYP1A2 and XO substrate .
Although no ULORIC drug interaction study with theophylline has been conducted , concomitant administration of theophylline with allopurinol , a xanthine oxidase inhibitor at doses ≥ 600 mg per day , has been reported to increase theophylline plasma concentrations .
Because ULORIC is a xanthine oxidase inhibitor and theophylline is a low therapeutic index drug , ULORIC could inhibit the XO - mediated metabolism of theophylline leading to increased plasma concentrations of theophylline that could induce severe theophylline toxicity .
P450 Substrate Drugs : In vitro studies have shown that febuxostat does not inhibit P450 enzymes CYP1A2 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , or 3A4 and it also does not induce CYP1A2 , 2B6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , or 3A4 at clinically relevant concentrations .
As such , pharmacokinetic interactions between ULORIC and drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes are unlikely .
Effect of Other Drugs on ULORIC Febuxostat is metabolized by conjugation and oxidation via multiple metabolizing enzymes .
The relative contribution of each enzyme isoform is not clear .
Drug interactions between ULORIC and a drug that inhibits or induces one particular enzyme isoform is in general not expected .
In Vivo Drug Interaction Studies Colchicine : No dose adjustment is necessary for either ULORIC or colchicine when the two drugs are co - administered .
Administration of ULORIC ( 40 mg once daily ) with colchicine ( 0 . 6 mg twice daily ) resulted in an increase of 12 % in Cmax and 7 % in AUC24 of febuxostat .
In addition , administration of colchicine ( 0 . 6 mg twice daily ) with ULORIC ( 120 mg daily ) resulted in less than 11 % change in Cmax or AUC of colchicine for both AM and PM doses .
These changes were not considered clinically significant .
Naproxen : No dose adjustment is necessary for ULORIC or naproxen when the two drugs are co - administered .
Administration of ULORIC ( 80 mg once daily ) with naproxen ( 500 mg twice daily ) resulted in a 28 % increase in Cmax and a 40 % increase in AUC of febuxostat .
The increases were not considered clinically significant .
In addition , there were no significant changes in the Cmax or AUC of naproxen ( less than 2 % ) .
Indomethacin : No dose adjustment is necessary for either ULORIC or indomethacin when these two drugs are co - administered .
Administration of ULORIC ( 80 mg once daily ) with indomethacin ( 50 mg twice daily ) did not result in any significant changes in Cmax or AUC of febuxostat or indomethacin ( less than 7 % ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide : No dose adjustment is necessary for ULORIC when co - administered with hydrochlorothiazide .
Administration of ULORIC ( 80 mg ) with hydrochlorothiazide ( 50 mg ) did not result in any clinically significant changes in Cmax or AUC of febuxostat ( less than 4 % ) , and serum uric acid concentrations were not substantially affected .
Warfarin : No dose adjustment is necessary for warfarin when co - administered with ULORIC .
Administration of ULORIC ( 80 mg once daily ) with warfarin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin in healthy subjects .
INR and Factor VII activity were also not affected by the co - administration of ULORIC .
Desipramine : Co - administration of drugs that are CYP2D6 substrates ( such as desipramine ) with ULORIC are not expected to require dose adjustment .
Febuxostat was shown to be a weak inhibitor of CYP2D6 in vitro and in vivo .
Administration of ULORIC ( 120 mg once daily ) with desipramine ( 25 mg ) resulted in an increase in Cmax ( 16 % ) and AUC ( 22 % ) of desipramine , which was associated with a 17 % decrease in the 2 - hydroxydesipramine to desipramine metabolic ratio ( based on AUC ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice .
Increased transitional cell papilloma and carcinoma of urinary bladder was observed at 24 mg per kg ( 25 times the human plasma exposure at maximum recommended human dose of 80 mg per day ) and 18 . 75 mg per kg ( 12 . 5 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day ) in male rats and female mice , respectively .
The urinary bladder neoplasms were secondary to calculus formation in the kidney and urinary bladder .
Mutagenesis : Febuxostat showed a positive mutagenic response in a chromosomal aberration assay in a Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cell line with and without metabolic activation in vitro .
Febuxostat was negative in the in vitro Ames assay and chromosomal aberration test in human peripheral lymphocytes , and L5178Y mouse lymphoma cell line , and in vivo tests in mouse micronucleus , rat unscheduled DNA synthesis and rat bone marrow cells .
Impairment of Fertility : Febuxostat at oral doses up to 48 mg per kg per day ( approximately 35 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day ) had no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology A 12 - month toxicity study in beagle dogs showed deposition of xanthine crystals and calculi in kidneys at 15 mg per kg ( approximately 4 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day ) .
A similar effect of calculus formation was noted in rats in a six - month study due to deposition of xanthine crystals at 48 mg per kg ( approximately 35 times the human plasma exposure at 80 mg per day ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A serum uric acid level of less than 6 mg per dL is the goal of anti - hyperuricemic therapy and has been established as appropriate for the treatment of gout .
14 . 1 Management of Hyperuricemia in Gout The efficacy of ULORIC was demonstrated in three randomized , double - blind , controlled trials in patients with hyperuricemia and gout .
Hyperuricemia was defined as a baseline serum uric acid level ≥ 8 mg per dL .
Study 1 randomized patients to : ULORIC 40 mg daily , ULORIC 80 mg daily , or allopurinol ( 300 mg daily for patients with estimated creatinine clearance ( Clcr ) ≥ 60 mL per min or 200 mg daily for patients with estimated Clcr ≥ 30 mL per min and ≤ 59 mL per min ) .
The duration of Study 1 was 6 months .
Study 2 randomized patients to : placebo , ULORIC 80 mg daily , ULORIC 120 mg daily , ULORIC 240 mg daily or allopurinol ( 300 mg daily for patients with a baseline serum creatinine ≤ 1 . 5 mg per dL or 100 mg daily for patients with a baseline serum creatinine greater than 1 . 5 mg per dL and ≤ 2 mg per dL ) .
The duration of Study 2 was 6 months .
Study 3 , a 1 - year study , randomized patients to : ULORIC 80 mg daily , ULORIC 120 mg daily , or allopurinol 300 mg daily .
Subjects who completed Study 2 and Study 3 were eligible to enroll in a phase 3 long - term extension study in which subjects received treatment with ULORIC for over three years .
In all three studies , subjects received naproxen 250 mg twice daily or colchicine 0 . 6 mg once or twice daily for gout flare prophylaxis .
In Study 1 the duration of prophylaxis was 6 months ; in Study 2 and Study 3 the duration of prophylaxis was 8 weeks .
The efficacy of ULORIC was also evaluated in a 4 week dose ranging study which randomized patients to : placebo , ULORIC 40 mg daily , ULORIC 80 mg daily , or ULORIC 120 mg daily .
Subjects who completed this study were eligible to enroll in a long - term extension study in which subjects received treatment with ULORIC for up to five years .
Patients in these studies were representative of the patient population for which ULORIC use is intended .
Table 2 summarizes the demographics and baseline characteristics for the subjects enrolled in the studies .
Table 2 : Patient Demographics and Baseline Characteristics in Study 1 , Study 2 and Study 3 Male 95 % Race : Caucasian 80 % African American 10 % Ethnicity : Hispanic or Latino 7 % Alcohol User 67 % Mild to Moderate Renal Insufficiency [ percent with estimated Clcr less than 90 mL per min ] 59 % History of Hypertension 49 % History of Hyperlipidemia 38 % BMI ≥ 30 kg per m2 63 % Mean BMI 33 kg per m2 Baseline sUA ≥ 10 mg per dL 36 % Mean baseline sUA 9 . 7 mg per dL Experienced a gout flare in previous year 85 % Serum Uric Acid Level less than 6 mg per dL at Final Visit : ULORIC 80 mg was superior to allopurinol in lowering serum uric acid to less than 6 mg per dL at the final visit .
ULORIC 40 mg daily , although not superior to allopurinol , was effective in lowering serum uric acid to less than 6 mg per dL at the final visit ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 : Proportion of Patients with Serum Uric Acid Levels Less Than 6 mg per dL at Final Visit Difference in Proportion ( 95 % CI ) Study [ 1 ] ULORIC 40 mg daily ULORIC 80 mg daily allopurinol Placebo ULORIC 40 mg vs allopurinol ULORIC 80 mg vs allopurinol Study 1 ( 6 months ) ( N = 2268 ) 45 % 67 % 42 % 3 % ( - 2 % , 8 % ) 25 % ( 20 % , 30 % ) Study 2 ( 6 months ) ( N = 643 ) 72 % 39 % 1 % 33 % ( 26 % , 42 % ) Study 3 ( 12 months ) ( N = 491 ) 74 % 36 % 38 % ( 30 % , 46 % ) [ 1 ] Randomization was balanced between treatment groups , except in Study 2 in which twice as many patients were randomized to each of the active treatment groups compared to placebo .
In 76 % of ULORIC 80 mg patients , reduction in serum uric acid levels to less than 6 mg per dL was noted by the Week 2 visit .
Average serum uric acid levels were maintained at 6 mg per dL or below throughout treatment in 83 % of these patients .
In all treatment groups , fewer subjects with higher baseline serum urate levels ( ≥ 10 mg per dL ) and / or tophi achieved the goal of lowering serum uric acid to less than 6 mg per dL at the final visit ; however , a higher proportion achieved a serum uric acid less than 6 mg per dL with ULORIC 80 mg than with ULORIC 40 mg or allopurinol .
Study 1 evaluated efficacy in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( i . e . , baseline estimated Clcr less than 90 mL per minute ) .
The results in this sub - group of patients are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Proportion of Patients with Serum Uric Acid Levels Less Than 6 mg per dL in Patients with Mild or Moderate Renal Impairment at Final Visit Difference in Proportion ( 95 % CI ) ULORIC 40 mg daily ( N = 479 ) ULORIC 80 mg daily ( N = 503 ) allopurinol [ 1 ] 300 mg daily ( N = 501 ) ULORIC 40 mg vs allopurinol ULORIC 80 mg vs allopurinol 50 % 72 % 42 % 7 % ( 1 % , 14 % ) 29 % ( 23 % , 35 % ) [ 1 ] Allopurinol patients ( n = 145 ) with estimated Clcr ≥ 30 mL per min and Clcr ≤ 59 mL per min were dosed at 200 mg daily .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ULORIC 80 mg tablets are light green to green in color , teardrop shaped , debossed with " TAP " on one side and " 80 " on the other side and supplied as : NDC Number Size 21695 - 516 - 30 Bottle of 30 Tablets Protect from light .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° – 30 ° C ( 59 ° – 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION [ see FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 2 ) ] 17 . 1 General Information Patients should be advised of the potential benefits and risks of ULORIC .
Patients should be informed about the potential for gout flares , elevated liver enzymes and adverse cardiovascular events after initiation of ULORIC therapy .
Concomitant prophylaxis with an NSAID or colchicine for gout flares should be considered .
Patients should be instructed to inform their healthcare professional if they develop a rash , chest pain , shortness of breath or neurologic symptoms suggesting a stroke .
Patients should be instructed to inform their healthcare professional of any other medications they are currently taking with ULORIC , including over - the - counter medications .
17 . 2 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Patient Information ULORIC ® ( Ū – ' lor – ik ) ( febuxostat ) tablets Read the Patient Information that comes with ULORIC before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is ULORIC ?
ULORIC is a prescription medicine called a xanthine oxidase ( XO ) inhibitor , used to lower blood uric acid levels in adults with gout .
It is not known if ULORIC is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take ULORIC ?
Do not take ULORIC if you : • take Azathioprine ( Azasan ® , Imuran ® ) • take Mercaptopurine ( Purinethol ® ) • take Theophylline ( Theo - 24 ® , Elixophyllin ® , Theochron ® , Theolair ® , Uniphyl ® ) It is not known if ULORIC is safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking ULORIC ?
Before taking ULORIC tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have liver or kidney problems • have a history of heart disease or stroke • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if ULORIC will harm your unborn baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if ULORIC passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take ULORIC while breast - feeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
ULORIC may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how ULORIC works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take ULORIC ?
• Take ULORIC exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• ULORIC can be taken with or without food .
• ULORIC can be taken with antacids .
• Your gout may flare up when you start taking ULORIC , do not stop taking your ULORIC even if you have a flare .
Your healthcare provider may give you other medicines to help prevent your gout flares .
• Your healthcare provider may do certain tests while you take ULORIC .
What are the possible side effects of ULORIC ?
Heart problems .
A small number of heart attacks , strokes and heart - related deaths were seen in clinical studies .
It is not certain that ULORIC caused these events .
The most common side effects of ULORIC include : • liver problems • nausea • gout flares • joint pain • rash Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ULORIC .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store ULORIC ?
Store ULORIC between 59 ° F - 86 ° F ( 15 ° C - 30 ° C ) .
Keep ULORIC out of the light .
Keep ULORIC and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of ULORIC Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use ULORIC for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ULORIC to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This patient information leaflet summarizes the most important information about ULORIC .
If you would like more information about ULORIC talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about ULORIC that is written for health professionals .
For more information go to www . uloric . com , or call 1 - 877 - 825 - 3327 .
What are the ingredients in ULORIC ?
Active Ingredient : febuxostat Inactive ingredients include : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , sodium croscarmellose , silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , and Opadry II , green Distributed by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
Deerfield , IL 60015 U . S . Patent Nos .
- 6 , 225 , 474 ; 7 , 361 , 676 ; 5 , 614 , 520 .
ULORIC ® is a registered trademark of Teijin Pharma Limited and used under license by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
All other trademark names are the property of their respective owners © 2009 Takeda Pharmaceuticals America , Inc .
PI1114 R1 February 2009 Repackaged by Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg 30 Tablet Bottle 30 Tablets Rx only Uloric ® febuxostat tablets 80 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
