1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VYLEESI is indicated for the treatment of premenopausal women with acquired , generalized hypoactive sexual desire disorder ( HSDD ) , as characterized by low sexual desire that causes marked distress or interpersonal difficulty and is NOT due to : • A co - existing medical or psychiatric condition , • Problems with the relationship , or • The effects of a medication or drug substance .
Acquired HSDD refers to HSDD that develops in a patient who previously had no problems with sexual desire .
Generalized HSDD refers to HSDD that occurs regardless of the type of stimulation , situation or partner .
Limitations of Use • VYLEESI is not indicated for the treatment of HSDD in postmenopausal women or in men .
• VYLEESI is not indicated to enhance sexual performance .
VYLEESI is a melanocortin receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of premenopausal women with acquired , generalized hypoactive sexual desire disorder ( HSDD ) as characterized by low sexual desire that causes marked distress or interpersonal difficulty and is NOT due to : • A co - existing medical or psychiatric condition , • Problems with the relationship , or • The effects of a medication or drug substance ( 1 ) Limitations of Use ( 1 ) : • Not indicated for treatment of HSDD in postmenopausal women or in men .
• Not indicated to enhance sexual performance .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Inject 1 . 75 mg subcutaneously via the autoinjector to the abdomen or thigh , as needed , at least 45 minutes before anticipated sexual activity .
( 2 . 1 ) • Do not administer more than one dose within 24 hours .
( 2 . 1 ) • More than 8 doses per month is not recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage of VYLEESI is 1 . 75 mg administered subcutaneously in the abdomen or thigh , as needed , at least 45 minutes before anticipated sexual activity .
The duration of efficacy after each dose is unknown and the optimal window for VYLEESI administration has not been fully characterized .
Patients may decide the optimal time for VYLEESI administration based on how they experience the duration of effect on desire and any adverse reactions such as nausea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should not administer more than one dose within 24 hours .
The efficacy of consecutive doses within 24 hours has not been established and administering doses close together may increase the risk of additive effects on blood pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Administering more than 8 doses per month is not recommended .
Few patients in the phase 3 program received more than 8 doses per month .
Also , more frequent dosing increases the risk for focal hyperpigmentation and the length of time per month when blood pressure is increased [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) ] .
VYLEESI is self - administered via a prefilled autoinjector pen .
Visually inspect the drug product for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Discard if the solution is cloudy , discolored , or visible particles are observed .
2 . 2 Discontinuation of VYLEESI Discontinue VYLEESI after 8 weeks if the patient does not report an improvement in her symptoms .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Subcutaneous injection : 1 . 75 mg / 0 . 3 mL clear solution in a single - dose autoinjector .
Subcutaneous injection : 1 . 75 mg / 0 . 3 mL solution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VYLEESI is contraindicated in patients who have uncontrolled hypertension or known cardiovascular disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Uncontrolled hypertension or known cardiovascular disease .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Transient increase in blood pressure and decrease in heart rate : Occurs after each dose and usually resolves within 12 hours .
Consider the patient ’ s cardiovascular risk before initiating VYLEESI and periodically during treatment and ensure blood pressure is well - controlled .
VYLEESI is not recommended in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease .
( 5 . 1 ) • Focal hyperpigmentation : Reported by 1 % of patients who received up to 8 doses per month , including involvement of the face , gingiva and breasts .
Higher risk in patients with darker skin and with daily dosing .
Resolution was not confirmed in some patients .
Consider discontinuing VYLEESI if hyperpigmentation develops .
( 5 . 2 ) • Nausea : Reported by 40 % of patients who received up to 8 monthly doses , requiring anti - emetic therapy in 13 % of patients and leading to premature discontinuation for 8 % of patients .
Improved for most patients with the second dose .
Consider discontinuing VYLEESI or initiating anti - emetic therapy for persistent or severe nausea .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Transient Increase in Blood Pressure and Reduction in Heart Rate VYLEESI transiently increases blood pressure and reduces heart rate after each dose .
In clinical studies , VYLEESI induced maximal increases of 6 mmHg in systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) and 3 mmHg in diastolic blood pressure ( DBP ) that peaked between 2 to 4 hours post dose .
There was a corresponding reduction in heart rate up to 5 beats per minute .
Blood pressure and heart rate returned to baseline usually within 12 hours post - dose .
No additive effects were seen for blood pressure or heart rate following repeat daily dosing 24 - hours apart for up to 16 days [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Before initiating VYLEESI , and periodically during treatment , consider the patient ’ s cardiovascular risk and ensure blood pressure is well - controlled .
VYLEESI is not recommended for patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease and is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension or known cardiovascular disease [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
To minimize the risk of more pronounced blood pressure effects , advise patients to not take more than one VYLEESI dose within 24 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Focal Hyperpigmentation In the phase 3 placebo - controlled trials , focal hyperpigmentation , including involvement of the face , gingiva , and breasts , was reported in 1 % of patients who received up to 8 doses per month of VYLEESI compared to no placebo - treated patients .
In another clinical study , 38 % of patients developed focal hyperpigmentation after receiving VYLEESI daily for 8 days ; among patients who continued VYLEESI for 8 more consecutive days , an additional 14 % developed new focal pigmentary changes .
Patients with dark skin were more likely to develop focal hyperpigmentation .
Resolution of the focal hyperpigmentation was not confirmed in all patients after discontinuation of VYLEESI .
More than 8 monthly doses of VYLEESI is not recommended .
Consider discontinuing VYLEESI if hyperpigmentation develops .
5 . 3 Nausea In the phase 3 placebo - controlled trials , nausea was the most commonly reported adverse reaction , reported in 40 % of VYLEESI - treated patients , requiring anti - emetic therapy in 13 % of VYLEESI - treated patients and leading to premature discontinuation from the trials for 8 % of VYLEESI - treated patients .
Nausea improves for most patients with the second dose [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Consider discontinuing VYLEESI for persistent or severe nausea or initiating anti - emetic therapy for those patients who are bothered by nausea but wish to continue with VYLEESI treatment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail elsewhere in labeling : • Transient increases in blood pressure and reductions in heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] • Focal hyperpigmentation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Nausea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 4 % ) are nausea , flushing , injection site reactions , headache , and vomiting .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact AMAG Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 411 - 2510 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The efficacy and safety of VYLEESI was studied in two identical , 24 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials in 1247 premenopausal women with acquired , generalized HSDD .
The age range was 19 - 56 years old with a mean age of 39 years old ; 86 % were White and 12 % were Black .
Both trials also included a 52 - week open - label , uncontrolled extension phase during which 684 patients received VYLEESI [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Most patients used VYLEESI two to three times per month and no more than once a week .
Serious adverse reactions were reported in 1 . 1 % of VYLEESI - treated patients and 0 . 5 % of placebo - treated patients .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 18 % among patients treated with VYLEESI and 2 % among patients treated with placebo .
The most common adverse reactions leading to study drug discontinuation in the VYLEESI group were nausea ( 8 % ) , headache ( 2 % ) , vomiting ( 1 % ) , flushing ( 1 % ) , injection site reactions ( 1 % ) , flu - like symptoms ( < 1 % ) and increased blood pressure ( < 1 % ) .
Common Adverse Reactions Table 1 provides the incidence of common adverse reactions ( those reported in at least 2 % of patients in the VYLEESI treatment group and at an incidence that was greater than in the placebo group ) .
The most common adverse reactions included nausea , flushing , injection site reactions and headache .
The majority of events were reported to be mild ( 31 % ) to moderate ( 40 % ) in intensity and transient .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Patients in Randomized , Double Blind Controlled Trials with VYLEESI in Premenopausal Women with HSDDaIncludes injection site pain , unspecified injection site reactions , erythema , hematoma , pruritus , hemorrhage , bruising , paresthesia and hypoesthesia VYLEESI ( n = 627 ) % Placebo ( n = 620 ) % Nausea 40 . 0 1 . 3 Flushing 20 . 3 0 . 3 Injection site reactionsa 13 . 2 8 . 4 Headache 11 . 3 1 . 9 Vomiting 4 . 8 0 . 2 Cough 3 . 3 1 . 3 Fatigue 3 . 2 0 . 5 Hot flush 2 . 7 0 . 2 Paraesthesia 2 . 6 0 . 0 Dizziness 2 . 2 0 . 5 Nasal congestion 2 . 1 0 . 5 Nausea In the pooled phase 3 placebo - controlled trials , nausea was the most common adverse reaction , reported in 40 % of VYLEESI - treated patients compared to 1 % of placebo - treated patients .
The median onset of nausea was within one - hour post - dose and lasted about two hours in duration .
The incidence of nausea was highest after the first VYLEESI dose ( reported in 21 % of patients ) then declined to about 3 % after subsequent doses .
Thirteen percent of VYLEESI - treated patients received an anti - emetic medication .
Overall , 8 % of VYLEESI - treated patients and no placebo - treated patients prematurely discontinued the trials due to nausea .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Headache In the pooled phase 3 placebo - controlled trials , headache occurred at a higher incidence in VYLEESI - treated patients ( 11 % ) than placebo - treated patients ( 2 % ) .
One patient experienced a headache event that was serious ( intractable pain leading to hospitalization ) and 1 % of patients who received VYLEESI discontinued the study due to headache .
Flushing In the pooled phase 3 placebo - controlled trials , flushing occurred more frequently in VYLEESI - treated patients ( 20 % ) than placebo - treated patients ( < 1 % ) .
None of the flushing events were serious and few were severe ( < 1 % ) , and 1 % of patients who received VYLEESI discontinued the study due to flushing .
Less Common Adverse Reactions Less common adverse reactions occurring in < 2 % of VYLEESI - treated patients and at an incidence greater than in the placebo group were upper abdominal pain , diarrhea , myalgia , arthralgia , pain , restless leg syndrome , rhinorrhea , increased creatine phosphokinase , blood pressure increased , pain in extremity and focal skin hyperpigmentation .
Acute hepatitis In the open - label , uncontrolled extension phase of one study , a single case of acute hepatitis was reported in a patient who had received 10 doses of VYLEESI over one year .
She presented with serum transaminases exceeding 40 times the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , total bilirubin 6 times the ULN , and alkaline phosphatase less than 2 times ULN .
Liver tests returned to normal 4 months after study drug discontinuation .
Because another etiology was not identified , the role of VYLEESI could not definitively be excluded .
There was no imbalance between treatment groups in serum transaminase outliers or other signals for hepatotoxicity in the clinical development program .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • VYLEESI may slow gastric emptying and impact absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications .
( 7 . 1 ) • VYLEESI may significantly decrease the systemic exposure of orally - administered naltrexone ; avoid use with orally administered naltrexone - containing products intended to treat alcohol or opioid addiction .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Effect of VYLEESI on Other Drugs VYLEESI may slow gastric emptying and thus has the potential to reduce the rate and extent of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications .
Instruct patients to avoid the use of VYLEESI when taking concomitant oral drugs that are dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy ( e . g . , antibiotics ) .
In addition , patients should consider discontinuing VYLEESI if there is a delayed drug effect of concomitant oral medications when a quick onset of drug effect is desired ( e . g . drugs for pain relief such as indomethacin ) .
7 . 2 Naltrexone As VYLEESI may significantly decrease the systemic exposure of orally - administered naltrexone , patients should avoid using VYLEESI with an orally administered naltrexone - containing product that is intended to treat alcohol and opioid addiction due to the severe consequence of naltrexone treatment failure [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Advise patients to discontinue VYLEESI if pregnancy is suspected .
( 8 . 1 ) • Females of Reproductive Potential : Advise patients to use effective contraception while taking VYLEESI .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There will be a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to VYLEESI during pregnancy .
Pregnant women exposed to VYLEESI and healthcare providers are encouraged to call the VYLEESI Pregnancy Exposure Registry at ( 877 ) 411 - 2510 .
Risk Summary The few pregnancies in women exposed to VYLEESI in clinical trials are insufficient for determining whether there is a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Based on findings in animal studies , the use of VYLEESI in pregnant women may be associated with the potential for fetal harm .
In animal reproduction and development studies , daily subcutaneous administration of bremelanotide to pregnant dogs during the period of organogenesis at exposures greater than or equal to 16 times the maximum recommended dose ( based on area under the concentration - time curve or AUC ) produced fetal harm .
In mice subcutaneously dosed with bremelanotide during pregnancy and lactation , developmental effects were observed in the offspring at greater than or equal to 125 - times the maximum recommended dose ( based on AUC ) [ see Data ] .
However , the lowest bremelanotide dose associated with fetal harm has not been identified for either species .
For this reason , women should use effective contraception while taking VYLEESI and discontinue VYLEESI if pregnancy is suspected .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data There were 7 pregnancies reported in the clinical trials of more than 1057 patients treated with VYLEESI for up to 12 months .
Among these 7 pregnancies , no major congenital anomalies were reported .
There was one spontaneous abortion ( miscarriage ) , five full - term live births , and one outcome was unknown due to loss to follow - up .
Animal Data An embryofetal development study was conducted in the dog and a pre - and postnatal development study was conducted in the mouse to inform developmental risk .
These two species are not routinely used for reproductive toxicity assessment but were the only two species that could be successfully dosed by the subcutaneous route during gestation .
Bremelanotide was administered subcutaneously to pregnant dogs ( 8 / dose ) at 2 , 8 , or 20 mg / kg from gestation day ( GD ) 18 - 35 , corresponding to the period from implantation to late embryogenesis in the dog .
Embryofetal toxicity , as measured by post - implantation loss , was elevated approximately 3 to 8 - fold compared to controls across all treated groups but was not dose - dependent .
A developmental no - observed - effect level ( NOEL ) was not set .
At the low dose of 2 mg / kg / day in the dog , exposure was approximately 16 times the human exposure based on AUC .
In a pre - and postnatal development study , female mice ( 30 / dose ) were dosed subcutaneously at 0 , 30 , 75 , and 150 mg / kg / day from GD 6 through lactation day ( LD ) 28 , and two generations of offspring were assessed ( F1 and F2 ) .
There were no effects on reproductive parameters in parental ( F0 ) or F1 generation animals at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day ( approximately 760 times the human AUC ) .
However , developmental delays were observed in the F1 generation mice at ≥ 30 mg / kg / day ( approximately 125 times the human AUC ) .
For that reason , a developmental NOEL was not set .
There were no significant effects on the growth and development of F2 generation pups .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of bremelanotide or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for VYLEESI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from VYLEESI or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Use of VYLEESI during pregnancy is not recommended [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception while taking VYLEESI , and to discontinue VYLEESI if pregnancy is suspected .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VYLEESI have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The safety and effectiveness of VYLEESI have not been established in geriatric patients .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosing adjustments are recommended for patients with mild to moderate ( eGFR 30 - 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment .
Use with caution in patients with severe ( eGFR < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment , because these patients may have an increase in the incidence and severity of adverse reactions ( e . g . , nausea and vomiting ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosing adjustments are recommended for patients with mild to moderate ( Child - Pugh A and B ; score 5 - 9 ) hepatic impairment .
VYLEESI has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
Use with caution in patients with severe ( Child - Pugh C ; score 10 - 15 ) hepatic impairment , because these patients may have an increase in the incidence and severity of adverse reactions ( e . g . , nausea and vomiting ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE No reports of overdosage with VYLEESI have been reported .
Nausea , focal hyperpigmentation and more pronounced blood pressure increases are more likely with higher doses .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should address the symptoms with supportive measures , as needed .
11 DESCRIPTION VYLEESI ( bremelanotide injection ) contains bremelanotide , a melanocortin receptor agonist for subcutaneous administration via an autoinjector .
Bremelanotide acetate is a synthetic , cyclic heptapeptide with a free acid at the carboxyl terminus and an acetylated amino group at the amino terminus of the peptide with the following structure : Ac - Nle - cyclo - ( Asp - His - D - Phe - Arg - Trp - Lys - OH ) • xCH3COOH The molecular formula of bremelanotide acetate is C50H68N14O10 • xCH3COOH ( 1 ≤ x ≤ 2 ) and the molecular weight is 1025 . 2 ( free base ) .
VYLEESI ( bremelanotide injection ) is supplied as a sterile , clear solution in a pre - filled syringe contained in a single - dose autoinjector for subcutaneous administration .
Each pre - filled syringe contains 1 . 75 mg of bremelanotide ( equivalent to 1 . 89 mg bremelanotide acetate ) in 0 . 3 mL solution .
Inactive ingredients consist of 2 . 5 % glycerin , sterile water for injection , and hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide added to adjust the pH . 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Bremelanotide is a melanocortin receptor ( MCR ) agonist that nonselectively activates several receptor subtypes with the following order of potency : MC1R , MC4R , MC3R , MC5R , MC2R .
At therapeutic dose levels , binding to MC1R and MC4R is most relevant .
Neurons expressing MC4R are present in many areas of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
The mechanism by which VYLEESI improves HSDD in women is unknown .
The MC1R is expressed on melanocytes ; binding at this receptor leads to melanin expression and increased pigmentation .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Transient Increases in Blood Pressure In an open - label ambulatory blood pressure monitoring study of 127 premenopausal women receiving VYLEESI once daily , there was a mean increase of 1 . 9 mmHg ( 95 % CI : 1 . 0 to 2 . 7 ) in daytime systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) and a mean increase of 1 . 7 mmHg ( 95 % CI : 0 . 9 to 2 . 4 ) in daytime diastolic blood pressure ( DBP ) after 8 days of dosing .
The increase in SBP and DBP was transient with a mean peak effect in SBP of 2 . 8 mmHg between 4 to 8 hours post - dose and 2 . 7 mmHg for DBP at 0 to 4 hours post - dose .
The increase in BP after 8 days of dosing was accompanied by a simultaneous and transient mean decrease in heart rate of 0 . 5 beats per minute ( 95 % CI : - 1 . 6 to - 0 . 7 ) .
The SBP and DBP values 12 to 24 - hours post - dose were similar to the pre - dose values [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Alcohol Interaction A placebo - controlled , randomized , double - blind , three - period , three - way crossover study was conducted to assess the safety of a single intranasal 20 mg dose of bremelanotide co - administered with alcohol in 12 healthy male and 12 healthy female subjects .
Intranasal bremelanotide or placebo spray was administered 10 minutes after consumption of placebo drink or 0 . 6 g / kg ethanol ( equivalent of three 12 ounce cans of beer containing 5 % alcohol content , three 5 ounce glasses of wine containing 12 % alcohol content , or three 1 . 5 ounce shots of 80 - proof spirit in a 70 kg person ) .
The 20 mg intranasal dose achieves a 2 . 5 - fold higher mean Cmax than that of VYLEESI .
Alcohol consumption had no effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of bremelanotide .
The incidence of flushing was higher with bremelanotide plus ethanol compared to ethanol alone , but similar to the incidence with bremelanotide alone .
The incidence of headache was higher with bremelanotide plus ethanol compared to bremelanotide alone , but similar to the incidence with ethanol alone .
The incidence of other adverse reactions was similar across the treatment groups .
The incidence of abnormal orthostatic blood pressure reductions was comparable between the bremelanotide plus ethanol group and the ethanol alone group .
No participants discontinued due to adverse reactions .
Cardiac Electrophysiology A 20 mg intranasal dose of bremelanotide does not prolong the QTc interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following subcutaneous administration of VYLEESI , the mean plasma Cmax and AUC of bremelanotide are 72 . 8 ng / mL and 276 hr * ng / mL , respectively .
Mean plasma concentrations of bremelanotide increase in a less than dose proportional manner in the dose range of 0 . 3 to 10 mg , with mean Cmax levels reaching a plateau at the 7 . 5 mg subcutaneous dose level ( approximately 4 . 3 times the maximum recommended dose ) .
Absorption Bremelanotide median Tmax is approximately 1 . 0 hour ( range : 0 . 5 - 1 . 0 hours ) in plasma .
The absolute bioavailability of bremelanotide following subcutaneous administration of VYLEESI was about 100 % .
The site of subcutaneous administration ( abdomen and thigh ) had no significant effect on the systemic exposure to bremelanotide .
Distribution Twenty - one percent of bremelanotide binds to human serum protein .
The mean ( SD ) volume of distribution after a single subcutaneous administration of VYLEESI is 25 . 0 ± 5 . 8 L . Elimination Following a single subcutaneous administration of VYLEESI , mean terminal half - life of bremelanotide is approximately 2 . 7 hours ( range : 1 . 9 – 4 . 0 hours ) and the mean ( ± SD ) clearance ( CL / F ) is 6 . 5 ± 1 . 0 L / hr .
Metabolism As a peptide with 7 amino acids , the primary metabolic pathway of bremelanotide involves multiple hydrolyses of the amide bond of the cyclic peptide Excretion Following administration of a radiolabeled dose , 64 . 8 % of the total radioactivity was recovered in urine and 22 . 8 % in feces .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal Impairment Following a single subcutaneous dose of VYLEESI , bremelanotide exposure ( AUC ) increased 1 . 2 - fold in patients with mild ( eGFR , 60 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment , 1 . 5 - fold in patients with moderate ( eGFR , 30 to 59 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment , and 2 - fold in patients with severe ( eGFR , < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment Following a single subcutaneous dose of VYLEESI , bremelanotide exposure ( AUC0 - inf ) increased 1 . 2 - fold in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh A ; score of 5 - 6 ) hepatic impairment and 1 . 7 - fold in patients with moderate ( Child - Pugh B ; score of 7 - 9 ) hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of bremelanotide was not studied .
Drug Interaction Studies Potential for VYLEESI to Influence the Pharmacokinetics of Other Drugs VYLEESI may reduce the rate and extent of absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications , likely due to slowing gastric motility .
In clinical pharmacology studies , VYLEESI did not affect the absorption of the tested orally administered concomitant medications to any clinically relevant degree , except for naltrexone and indomethacin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
The effects of bremelanotide on the pharmacokinetics of other drugs are summarized below as change relative to the other drug administered alone ( test / reference ) ( Figure 1 ) .
Figure 1 : Effects of Bremelanotide 1 . 75 mg SC on the Pharmacokinetic Exposures of Orally Administered Medications [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : AUC = area under the plasma concentration - time curve ; BMT = bremelanotide ; CI = confidence interval ; Cmax = maximum plasma concentration ; SC = subcutaneous .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis There were no significant increases in tumor incidence in two - year carcinogenicity studies with intranasal administration ( 0 . 5 , 2 . 5 , and 5 mg / animal / day ) of bremelanotide to male and female rats , and subcutaneous administration ( 3 , 9 , and 15 mg / kg / day ) to male and female mice .
Multiples of exposure were calculated based on average Cmax at the high dose over the course of the study and were 1 . 1 - fold and 111 - fold the human Cmax for rats and mice , respectively .
Mutagenesis Bremelanotide was not genotoxic or mutagenic in a battery of tests , including the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation assay , the in vitro chromosomal aberration test in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility There were no effects on fertility in male ( 75 mg / kg / day , approximately 375 times the human AUC ) or female ( 150 mg / kg / day , approximately 760 times the human AUC ) mice following subcutaneous administration .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of VYLEESI for the treatment of HSDD in premenopausal women was evaluated in two identical , Phase 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trials : NCT02333071 and NCT02338960 ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) .
Both trials included premenopausal women with acquired , generalized HSDD of at least 6 months ’ duration .
All patients in heterosexual relationships were required to use an effective form of contraception .
A majority of patients ( 74 % in Study 1 and 67 % in Study 2 ) reported HSDD with concomitant decreased arousal .
The trials consisted of two phases : a Core Study Phase ( 24 week placebo - controlled , double - blind treatment period ) and an uncontrolled , 52 - week Open - label Extension Study Phase .
Study participants were randomized to subcutaneous injections of VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( n = 635 ) or placebo ( n = 632 ) , self - administered by an autoinjector on an as - needed basis .
Patients were instructed to administer the drug approximately 45 minutes prior to anticipated sexual activity .
Patients were not to administer more than one dose within a 24 - hour period and no more than twelve doses per month .
Trial participants were mostly Caucasian ( 86 % ) or Black ( 12 % ) .
The mean age of study participants was 39 years old ( range 19 to 56 years old ) ; the mean duration in a monogamous relationship was 12 years , and the mean duration of HSDD was approximately 4 years .
Across the two trials , the median number of VYLEESI injections was 10 in the 24 - week double - blind treatment period and 12 during the uncontrolled open - label extension .
Most patients used VYLEESI two to three times per month and no more than once a week .
Study 1 and Study 2 had the following co - primary efficacy endpoints : • Change from baseline to end of study ( EOS ) in the Desire domain from the Female Sexual Function Index ( FSFI ) ( Questions 1 and 2 ) .
Question 1 asks patients “ Over the past 4 weeks , how often did you feel sexual desire or interest ? ”
, with responses ranging from 1 ( almost never or never ) to 5 ( almost always or always ) .
Question 2 asks patients “ Over the past 4 weeks , how would you rate your level ( degree ) of sexual desire or interest ? ”
, with responses ranging from 1 ( very low or none at all ) to 5 ( very high ) .
The FSFI Desire domain score was calculated by adding the patient ’ s responses to these two questions then multiplying that sum by 0 . 6 .
The FSFI Desire Domain score ranged from 1 . 2 to 6 .
An increase in the FSFI Desire domain score over time denotes improvement in sexual desire .
• Change from baseline to EOS in the score for feeling bothered by low sexual desire as measured by the Female Sexual Distress Scale – Desire / Arousal / Orgasm Question 13 ( FSDS - DAO Q13 ) .
This question asks patients , “ How often did you feel : Bothered by low sexual desire ? ”
Patients assessed their sexual distress over a 30 - day recall period and responded on a scale of 0 ( never ) to 4 ( always ) .
A decrease in the FSDS - DAO Q13 score over time denotes improvement in the level of distress associated with low sexual desire .
EOS is defined as the patient ’ s last study visit during the double - blind treatment period .
For patients who completed the double - blind treatment period , the EOS visit occurred at Week 24 .
Efficacy results for these co - primary endpoints from Study 1 and Study 2 are summarized in Table 2 and Table 3 .
In both studies , VYLEESI showed a statistically significant increase in the FSFI Desire Domain score and a statistically significant decrease in the FSDS - DAO Q13 score from baseline to the EOS visit compared to placebo .
The magnitude of the treatment differences was similar in both studies .
Table 2 : Efficacy Results for the FSFI - Desire Domain Score in Premenopausal HSDD Patients in Study 1 and Study 2 ( MITT * Population ) 1 FSFI Desire score range : 1 . 2 to 6 . 0 , with higher scores indicating greater desire .
2 p - value from unadjusted Wilcoxon rank - sum test .
* MITT : modified intent to treat defined as all patients who were randomized , used at least one dose of double - blind study drug , and had at least one double - blind follow - up visit .
However , one VYLEESI patient and one placebo patient in Study 1 and two placebo patients in Study 2 did not have either a baseline or EOS efficacy measurement and change from baseline could not be calculated .
Therefore , N = the number of patients in the MITT population with an evaluable change measurement .
Study 1 Study 2 VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 313 ) Placebo ( N = 315 ) VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 282 ) Placebo ( N = 288 ) Mean Baseline ( SD ) 1 2 . 1 ( 0 . 9 ) 2 . 0 ( 0 . 8 ) 2 . 0 ( 0 . 8 ) 2 . 1 ( 0 . 8 ) Mean Change from Baseline ( SD ) 0 . 5 ( 1 . 1 ) 0 . 2 ( 1 . 0 ) 0 . 6 ( 1 . 0 ) 0 . 2 ( 0 . 9 ) Median Change from Baseline 0 . 6 0 0 . 6 0 p - value2 0 . 0002 < 0 . 0001 Table 3 : Efficacy Results for the FSDS - DAO Q13 Score in Premenopausal HSDD Patients in Study 1 and Study 2 ( MITT * Population ) 1 FSDS - DAO Q13 score range : 0 to 4 , with higher scores indicating greater bother .
2 p - value from unadjusted Wilcoxon rank - sum test .
* MITT : modified intent to treat defined as all patients who were randomized , used at least one dose of the double - blind drug and had at least one double - blind follow - up visit .
However , one VYLEESI patient and two placebo patients in Study 1 and five placebo patients in Study 2 did not have either a baseline or EOS efficacy measurement and change from baseline could not be calculated .
Therefore , N = the number of patients in the MITT population with an evaluable change measurement .
Study 1 Study 2 VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 313 ) Placebo ( N = 314 ) VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 282 ) Placebo ( N = 285 ) Mean Baseline ( SD ) 1 2 . 9 ( 1 . 0 ) 2 . 8 ( 0 . 9 ) 2 . 9 ( 0 . 9 ) 2 . 9 ( 0 . 9 ) Mean Change from Baseline ( SD ) - 0 . 7 ( 1 . 2 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 1 ) - 0 . 7 ( 1 . 1 ) - 0 . 4 ( 1 . 1 ) Median Change from Baseline - 1 0 - 1 0 p - value2 < 0 . 00001 0 . 0053 Supplementary analyses were conducted to help interpret clinical meaningfulness of the observed score change from baseline to EOS in the FSFI - Desire Domain and FSDS - DAO Q13 .
These analyses defined responders for each coprimary efficacy endpoint by anchoring change from baseline to EOS with multiple anchor measures .
Each anchor analysis considered responders to be those who reported experiencing meaningful change at their EOS visit according to the respective anchor measure .
Because a greater percentage of MITT patients in the VYLEESI group prematurely discontinued the 24 - week double - blind treatment period compared to placebo patients ( 40 % vs . 13 % for Study 1 and 39 % vs . 25 % for Study 2 ) , an exploratory analysis was performed examining the percentages of patients who were able to complete the treatment period and improved from baseline .
Figure 2 displays the percentages of the MITT patients in the two Phase 3 trials who completed the 24 - week double - blind treatment period and achieved various levels of increase in the FSFI - Desire Domain Score from baseline ( higher scores indicate increased sexual desire ) .
Figure 3 displays the percentages of the MITT patients in the two clinical trials who completed the 24 - week double - blind treatment period and achieved various levels of reduction in the FSDS - DAO Q13 score from baseline ( higher scores indicate greater reduction in distress ) .
Figure 2 : Percent of Patients ( MITT Population ) who Completed the 24 - Week Double - Blind Treatment Period and Achieved Various Levels of Increases in the FSFI - Desire Domain Score [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients who did not complete the double - blind treatment period or were missing baseline scores are not considered to have experienced an increase in FSFI - Desire Domain score at the end of the double - blind treatment period .
Responder threshold : at least 1 . 2 - point increase from baseline in FSFI - Desire Domain score .
The threshold was defined for these studies by anchoring change from baseline to end of treatment with multiple anchor measures .
Figure 3 : Percent of Patients ( MITT Population ) who Completed the 24 - Week Double - Blind Treatment Period and Achieved Various Levels of Reductions in the FSDS - DAO Q13 Score [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patients who did not complete the double - blind treatment period or were missing change from baseline scores are not considered to have experienced a decrease in FSDS - DAO Q13 score at the end of the double - blind treatment period .
Responder threshold : at least 1 - point decrease from baseline in the FSDS - DAO Q13 score .
The threshold was defined for these studies by anchoring change from baseline to end of treatment with multiple anchor measures .
There was no significant difference between treatment groups in the change from baseline to end of study visit in the number of satisfying sexual events ( SSEs ) , a secondary endpoint .
Efficacy results for the number of SSEs are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Efficacy Results for the Number of Satisfying Sexual Events in Premenopausal HSDD Patients in Study 1 and Study 2 ( MITT * Population ) 1 p - value from unadjusted Wilcoxon rank - sum test .
* MITT : modified intent to treat defined as all patients who were randomized , used at least one dose of double - blind drug and had at least 1 double - blind follow - up visit .
N = the number of patients in the MITT population .
Study 1 Study 2 VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 314 ) Placebo ( N = 316 ) VYLEESI 1 . 75 mg ( N = 282 ) Placebo ( N = 285 ) Mean Baseline ( SD ) 0 . 7 ( 1 . 0 ) 0 . 8 ( 101 ) 0 . 8 ( 101 ) 0 . 7 ( 1 . 0 ) Mean Change from Baseline ( SD ) 0 . 0 ( 1 . 4 ) - 0 . 1 ( 1 . 4 ) 0 . 0 ( 1 . 3 ) 0 . 0 ( 1 . 2 ) Median Change from Baseline 0 0 0 0 p - value1 0 . 76 0 . 70 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING VYLEESI ( bremelanotide ) is supplied as : 1 . 75 mg bremelanotide in 0 . 3 mL solution in a single - dose , disposable prefilled autoinjector ( NDC 64011 - 701 - 01 ) provided in a carton of 4 autoinjectors ( NDC 64011 - 701 - 04 ) .
Storage Store at or below 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Transient Increase in Blood Pressure and Decrease in Heart Rate Advise patients that increases in blood pressure and decreases in heart rate may occur after taking each VYLEESI dose , and that these changes usually resolve within12 hours post - dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Advise patients not to take VYLEESI within 24 hours of a prior dose and that more than 8 doses per month is not recommended .
Advise patients that taking VYLEESI more frequently or too close together may lead to more pronounced increases in blood pressure [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Focal Hyperpigmentation Advise patients that focal hyperpigmentation , including on the face , gingiva and breasts , may occur when VYLEESI is used intermittently , particularly in patients with darker skin .
The incidence may increase with daily VYLEESI use .
Advise patients that the pigmentary changes may not resolve completely after stopping VYLEESI , and to contact their healthcare provider if they have any concerns about changes to their skin [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Nausea Advise patients that nausea may occur , most commonly with the first injection of VYLEESI , but could occur intermittently with continued use .
Advise patients that nausea most commonly lasts for two hours after taking a dose but could last longer in some patients , and that anti - emetic medications may be necessary .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for persistent or severe nausea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Potential Advise patients to use effective contraception while taking VYLEESI and to discontinue VYLEESI if pregnancy is suspected .
Advise pregnant patients that there is a pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to VYLEESI during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured for : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
1100 Winter Street Waltham , MA 02451 VYLEESI is a trademark of AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
© 2019 AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Version 1 . 0 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 06 / 2019 PATIENT INFORMATION VYLEESI ™ ( vahy - lee - see ) ( bremelanotide injection ) for subcutaneous use What is VYLEESI ?
VYLEESI is a prescription medicine used to treat hypoactive ( low ) sexual desire disorder ( HSDD ) in women who have not gone through menopause , who have not had problems with low sexual desire in the past , and who have low sexual desire no matter the type of sexual activity , the situation , or the sexual partner .
Women with HSDD have low sexual desire that is troubling to them .
Their low sexual desire is not due to : • a medical or mental health problem • problems in the relationship • medicine or other drug use VYLEESI is not for the treatment of HSDD in women who have gone through menopause or in men .
VYLEESI is not for use to improve sexual performance .
VYLEESI is not for use in children .
Do not use VYLEESI if you have : • high blood pressure that is not controlled ( uncontrolled hypertension ) • known heart ( cardiovascular ) disease Before using VYLEESI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have high blood pressure .
• have heart problems .
• have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if VYLEESI will harm your unborn baby .
• Pregnancy Registry : There will be a pregnancy registry for women who use VYLEESI during pregnancy .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how you can take part in this registry or call the VYLEESI Pregnancy Exposure Registry at 877 - 411 - 2510 .
• Women who can become pregnant should use effective birth control during treatment with VYLEESI .
Talk to your healthcare provider about birth control choices that may be right for you during this time .
Stop using VYLEESI and tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant or think you might be pregnant during treatment with VYLEESI .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if VYLEESI passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you use VYLEESI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
VYLEESI may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect the way VYLEESI works .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I use VYLEESI ?
See the detailed “ Instructions for Use ” that comes with VYLEESI for information on how to prepare and inject a dose of VYLEESI .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions .
• Use VYLEESI exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• VYLEESI comes in an autoinjector that you or your caregiver may use at home to give injections .
• VYLEESI is given as an injection under the skin ( subcutaneous injection ) , in your thighs or stomach area ( abdomen ) .
• Inject VYLEESI at least 45 minutes before you think that you will begin sexual activity .
• Do not inject more than 1 dose of VYLEESI within 24 hours of your last dose .
• Do not inject more than 8 doses of VYLEESI within a month .
Tell your healthcare provider if your symptoms of HSDD have not improved after you have used VYLEESI for 8 weeks .
What are the possible side effects of VYLEESI ?
VYLEESI can cause serious side effects , including : • Temporary increase in blood pressure and decrease in heart rate : An increase in blood pressure and decrease in heart rate can happen shortly after you inject VYLEESI .
These changes usually go away within 12 hours after your injection .
Increases in blood pressure and an increased risk of heart ( cardiovascular ) problems can happen if you use VYLEESI more often than prescribed by your healthcare provider .
See “ How should I use VYLEESI ? ”
• Darkening of the skin on certain parts of the body ( focal hyperpigmentation ) including the face , gums ( gingiva ) and breast .
The chance of darkening of the skin is increased in people with darker skin color .
The chance of darkening of the skin is higher if VYLEESI is used every day .
Darkening of the skin may not go away , even after you stop using VYLEESI .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any concerns about changes to your skin • Nausea .
Nausea is common and can also be severe .
Nausea most commonly happens after the first VYLEESI injection but can also happen after any dose of VYLEESI .
The nausea usually lasts for about 2 hours but can last longer in some people .
The nausea usually goes away by itself .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have nausea that is severe or does not go away .
Your healthcare provider may prescribe an anti - nausea medicine for you .
The most common side effects of VYLEESI include : • flushing • vomiting • hot flush • nasal congestion • injection site reactions • cough • tingling • headache • fatigue • dizziness These are not all the possible side effects of VYLEESI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store VYLEESI ?
• Store at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
• Protect from light .
Keep VYLEESI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of VYLEESI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use VYLEESI for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give VYLEESI to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about VYLEESI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in VYLEESI ?
Active ingredient : bremelanotide Inactive ingredients : 2 . 5 % glycerin , sterile water for injection , and hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide is added to adjust the pH Manufactured for : AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
VYLEESI is a trademark of AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc . © 2019 AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
All rights reserved .
For more information , go to www . VYLEESI . com or call AMAG Pharmaceuticals Customer Service at the toll - free number 1 - 877 - 411 - 2510 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important Information Storage • Do not use more than 1 dose of VYLEESI in 24 hours .
• Do not use more than 8 doses of VYLEESI within a month .
• Use 1 autoinjector for your dose of VYLEESI .
Throw away ( dispose of ) the autoinjector after giving your injection .
See Step 6 : Throw away ( dispose of ) the VYLEESI autoinjector .
• Inject VYLEESI into the skin of the stomach area ( abdomen ) or thigh only .
• Do not pull off the clear cap from the VYLEESI autoinjector until you are ready to inject VYLEESI .
Store at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
Keep VYLEESI and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Instructions for Use Read this Instructions for Use before you use VYLEESI and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Do not inject VYLEESI unless you have been trained by your healthcare provider .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions .
Supplies Needed for Your Injection : • 1 alcohol wipe ( not included in carton ) • 1 VYLEESI autoinjector • 1 cotton ball or gauze ( not included in carton ) • 1 adhesive bandage ( not included in carton ) • 1 sharps disposal container for VYLEESI autoinjector disposal .
See Step 6 : Throw away ( dispose of ) the VYLEESI autoinjector .
Read and follow Step 1 to Step 6 to use the VYLEESI autoinjector .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Check the label on the autoinjector for the expiration date ( EXP ) .
Do not use the autoinjector if the expiration date has passed .
Check the view window .
You should see the gray tip in half of the view window and the medicine in half of the view window .
If the view window is purple , the autoinjector will not work .
Use a new autoinjector if the view window is purple .
Look at the medicine in the view window .
It should be clear and free of particles .
Do not use if the medicine is cloudy , discolored , or contains particles .
Check that the clear cap fits tightly on the purple tip of the autoinjector .
If the cap does not fit tightly or is damaged , do not use the autoinjector .
Call AMAG Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 411 - 2510 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The autoinjector must be used right away after it is activated .
Pull the clear cap from the autoinjector ( See Figure A ) to activate .
• Do not try to recap the autoinjector .
• The autoinjector should be used or thrown away right after the cap is removed .
See Step 6 : Throw away ( dispose of ) the VYLEESI autoinjector .
Important : During the injection you will hear two clicks .
Place the purple tip flat against the center of the clean skin at your injection site .
Make sure you can see the view window ( See Figure B ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Wash your hands with soap and water .
Choose an injection site on your stomach area ( abdomen ) or the front of your thigh .
Avoid the area on your abdomen that is 2 inches around your belly button ( navel ) .
• Do not inject into skin that is irritated , sore , bruised , red , hard , or scarred .
• Do not inject through your clothes .
• Choose a different site each time you give yourself an injection .
Clean the injection site with an alcohol wipe .
Let the injection site air dry .
Do not fan or blow on the clean area .
Do not touch the injection site again before giving the injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Press down and hold the autoinjector firmly against your skin ( See Figure C ) .
You will hear the 1 st click right away , which tells you that your injection has started .
In about 2 seconds , you will hear a 2 nd click .
Continue to press and hold the autoinjector firmly against your skin for about 5 seconds after the 2 nd click to be sure your injection is complete ( See Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Check that the view window is now purple with a small part of the gray tip still showing .
This means that all of the medicine was given ( See Figure E ) .
Remove the autoinjector by lifting it straight off of your skin .
After you remove the autoinjector from your skin , the purple tip will lock over the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Put your used VYLEESI autoinjector in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right after use ( See Figure F ) .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) the autoinjector in your household trash .
If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • made of heavy - duty plastic , • can be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • upright and stable during use , • leak - resistant , and • properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • A cotton ball or gauze can be used initially to apply pressure after the injection if there is bleeding .
An adhesive bandage should be applied after this , if needed .
• Apply an adhesive bandage if needed .
• Do not rub the injection site .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles and syringes .
For more information about safe sharps disposal and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 64011 - 701 - 04 - Autoinjector Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 64011 - 701 - 01 - Autoinjector Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 64011 - 701 - 12 - Professional Sample Autoinjector Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
