1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is an osmotic laxative indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is an osmotic laxative indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Preparation and Administration : • Two doses of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy , using a " Two - Day " preferred method or " One - Day " alternative method dosing regimen .
( 2 . 1 ) • PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution must be reconstituted in water prior to ingestion .
( 2 . 1 ) • Additional clear liquids must be consumed after each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution in both dosing regiments .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 1 ) • Do not take other laxatives while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
( 2 . 1 , 5 . 5 ) • Do not take oral medications within 1 hour of starting each dose .
( 2 . 1 ) Dosing Regimen : • Two - Day ( Split - Dose ) ( Preferred Method ) : Dose 1 the evening before the colonoscopy , and Dose 2 the morning of the colonoscopy ( approximately 12 hours after the start of Dose 1 , and at least 3 ½ hours prior to the colonoscopy ) .
( 2 . 2 ) • One - Day ( Evening Only ) ( Alternative Method ) : Dose 1 at least 3 ½ hours prior to bedtime the evening before the colonoscopy and Dose 2 approximately 1 ½ hours after starting Dose 1 the evening before the colonoscopy .
( 2 . 3 ) • For complete information on dosing , preparation and administration see full prescribing information ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Important Preparation and Administration Instructions • Correct fluid and electrolyte abnormalities before treatment with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Two doses of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy .
The time interval between the two doses depends on the regimen prescribed and the planned timing of the colonoscopy procedure .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) ] .
• The " Split - Dose " is the preferred method and consists of two separate doses : the first dose is taken the evening before the colonoscopy , and the second dose is taken the next day , the morning of the day of the colonoscopy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
• The " Evening Only " is the alternative method and consists of two separate doses : both doses are taken in the evening before the day of the colonoscopy , with a minimum of 1 . 5 hours between the start of the first dose and the start of the second dose [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Both PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution dosing regimens require administration of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution using the mixing container provided to reconstitute the contents of Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon flavor pack with water to the Fill Line .
• Additional clear liquids ( including water ) must be consumed in both dosing regimens [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Consume only clear liquids ( no solid food ) from the start of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution treatment until after the colonoscopy .
• Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• Do not take other laxatives while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
• Do not take oral medications within 1 hour before or after starting each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
• Ensure completion of Dose 2 , including all additional liquids , at least 2 hours before the colonoscopy .
• Storage : After reconstitution , store PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution - solution in an upright position and keep refrigerated .
Use within 24 hours after it is mixed in water .
2 . 2 Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen ( Preferred Method ) The Two - Day Split - Dosing regimen is the preferred dosing method .
Instruct adult patients that on the day before the clinical procedure , they can consume breakfast , followed by a light lunch ( no solid foods ) , and clear soup and / or plain yogurt for dinner , which must be completed at least 1 hour prior to the start of the first PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution dose .
Instruct adult patients to take two separate doses in conjunction with fluids as follows : Dose 1 – In the evening before the colonoscopy , approximately 10 to 12 hours before Dose 2 : • Empty the contents of 1 Pouch A , 1 Pouch B and 1 Lemon Flavor pack into the mixing container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the mixing container ( 32 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution - solution .
• Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until the contents of Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon flavor pack are completely dissolved .
• Drink 8 ounces of the solution every 15 minutes .
This should take about 1 hour .
Be sure to drink all the solution .
• Refill the mixing container halfway to the Fill Line ( at least 16 ounces ) with a clear liquid and drink all this liquid before going to bed .
Dose 2 – Take next morning , on the day of the colonoscopy , approximately 12 hours after the start of Dose 1 and at least 3 ½ hours prior to colonoscopy : • Empty the contents of 1 Pouch A , 1 Pouch B and 1 Lemon flavor pack into the mixing container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the mixing container ( 32 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution - solution .
• Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until the contents of Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon flavor pack are completely dissolved .
• Drink 8 ounces of the solution every 15 minutes .
This should take about 1 hour .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• Refill the mixing container halfway to the Fill Line ( at least 16 ounces ) with a clear liquid and drink all this liquid at least 2 hours before the colonoscopy .
• Consume additional water or clear liquids up to 2 hours before the colonoscopy or as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Then stop drinking liquids until after the colonoscopy .
Stop drinking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if severe bloating , abdominal discomfort or distention occurs , until these symptoms resolve .
2 . 3 One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen ( Alternative Method ) The One - Day Evening Only regimen is the alternative dosing method for patients for whom the Split - Dosing regimen is inappropriate .
Instruct adult patients that on the day before the clinical procedure , they can they can consume breakfast , followed by a light lunch ( no solid foods ) , and clear soup and / or plain yogurt for dinner , which must be completed at least 1 hour prior to the start of the first PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution dose .
Instruct adult patients to take two separate doses in conjunction with fluids as follows : Dose 1 – At least 3 ½ hours before bedtime the evening before the colonoscopy : • Empty the contents of 1 Pouch A , 1 Pouch B and 1 Lemon Flavor pack into the mixing container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the mixing container ( 32 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution - solution .
• Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until the contents of Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon Flavor pack are completely dissolved .
• Drink 8 ounces of the solution every 15 minutes .
This should take about 1 hour .
Be sure to drink all the solution .
Dose 2 – At least 1 ½ hours after starting Dose 1 on the evening before the colonoscopy : • Empty the contents of 1 Pouch A , 1 Pouch B and 1 Lemon Flavor pack into the mixing container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the mixing container ( 32 fluid ounces ) .
Do not add other ingredients to the PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution - solution .
• Thoroughly mix with a spoon or shake with lid on securely until the contents of Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon Flavor pack are completely dissolved .
• Drink 8 ounces of the solution every 15 minutes .
This should take about 1 hour .
Be sure to drink all of the solution .
• Refill the mixing container to the Fill Line ( 32 fluid ounces ) with a clear liquid and drink all this liquid before going to bed .
• Consume additional water or clear liquids up to 2 hours before the colonoscopy or as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Then stop drinking liquids until after the colonoscopy .
Stop drinking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if severe bloating , abdominal discomfort or distention occurs , until these symptoms resolve .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is supplied as a white to yellow free flowing powder with odor of lemon for reconstitution and is available in a carton that contains 2 pouches labeled Pouch A , 2 pouches labeled Pouch B and 2 Pouches labeled as Lemon Flavor pack .
• Each Pouch A contains 100 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , NF , 7 . 5 grams of sodium sulfate , USP , 2 . 691 grams of sodium chloride , USP , and 1 . 015 grams of potassium chloride , USP .
• Each Pouch B contains 4 . 7 grams of ascorbic acid , USP and 5 . 9 grams of sodium ascorbate , USP .
• Each Lemon Flavor pack contains natural lemon flavor , maltodextrin and saccharin sodium For Oral Solution : 2 pouches labeled Pouch A , 2 pouches labeled Pouch B and 2 pouches labeled Lemon Flavor pack .
( 3 ) • Each Pouch A contains 100 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , NF , 7 . 5 grams of sodium sulfate , USP , 2 . 691 grams of sodium chloride , USP , and 1 . 015 grams of potassium chloride , USP .
( 3 ) • Each Pouch B contains 4 . 7 grams of ascorbic acid , USP and 5 . 9 grams of sodium ascorbate , USP .
( 3 ) • Each Lemon Flavor pack contains Lemon Flavor Powder , Maltodextrin and Sodium Saccharin ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Bowel perforation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Gastric retention • Ileus • Toxic colitis or toxic megacolon • Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) obstruction ( 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Bowel perforation ( 4 , 4 . 6 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Ileus ( 4 ) • Toxic colitis or toxic megacolon ( 4 ) • Hypersensitivity to any ingredient in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ( 4 , 5 . 10 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities : Encourage adequate hydration , assess concurrent medications , and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use .
( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) • Cardiac arrhythmias : Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk .
( 5 . 2 ) • Seizures : Use caution in patients with a history of seizures and patients at increased risk of seizure , including medications that lower the seizure threshold .
( 5 . 3 , 7 . 1 ) • Patients with renal impairment or taking concomitant medications that affect renal function : Use caution , ensure adequate hydration and consider laboratory testing .
( 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 8 . 6 ) • Colonic mucosal ulcerations : Consider potential for ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
( 5 . 5 ) • Suspected GI obstruction or perforation : Rule out the diagnosis before administration .
( 5 . 6 ) • Patients at risk for aspiration : Observe during administration .
( 5 . 7 ) • Glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ( G - 6 - PD ) : Use with caution .
( 5 . 8 ) • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis : Inform patients to seek immediate medical care if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before , during , and after the use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , consider performing post - colonoscopy lab tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) .
Bowel preparations can cause fluid and electrolyte disturbances , which can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias , seizures , and renal impairment [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Correct fluid and electrolyte abnormalities before treatment with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients using concomitant medications that increase the risk of electrolyte abnormalities [ such as diuretics , angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) ] or in patients with known or suspected hyponatremia .
Consider performing pre - dose and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( sodium , potassium , calcium , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation ) associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation .
These occur predominantly in patients with underlying cardiac risk factors and electrolyte disturbances .
Use caution when prescribing PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias ( e . g . , patients with a history of prolonged QT , uncontrolled arrhythmias , recent myocardial infarction , unstable angina , congestive heart failure , cardiomyopathy , or electrolyte imbalance ) .
Consider pre - dose and post - colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias .
5 . 3 Seizures There have been rare reports of generalized tonic - clonic seizures and / or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures .
The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hyponatremia , hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia ) and low serum osmolality .
The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities .
Use caution when prescribing PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure , such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants ) , patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines , or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Use PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution with caution in patients with renal impairment or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function ( such as diuretics , ACE inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers , or nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
These patients may be at risk for renal injury .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before , during , and after use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , and consider performing pre - dose and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 5 Colonic Mucosal Ulceration , Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations , and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization .
Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis and is not recommended .
Consider the potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Use with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis .
5 . 7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex or other swallowing abnormalities are at risk for regurgitation or aspiration of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Observe these patients during the administration of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Use with caution in these patients .
5 . 8 Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) Deficiency Since PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution contains sodium ascorbate and ascorbic acid , PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution should be used with caution in patients with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency , especially G6PD deficiency patients with an active infection , with a history of hemolysis , or taking concomitant medications known to precipitate hemolytic reactions .
5 . 10 Hypersensitivity Reactions PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution contains polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) and may cause serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis , angioedema , rash , urticaria , and pruritus [ see Adverse Reactions ( 2 ) ] .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis , and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious or otherwise important adverse reactions for bowel preparations are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiac Arrhythmias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Patients with Renal Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Colonic Mucosal Ulceration , Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Aspiration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Glucose - 6 - Phosphate Dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % ) are : • Two - Day ( Split - Dose ) : malaise , nausea , abdominal pain , vomiting , and upper abdominal pain .
( 6 . 1 ) • One - Day ( Evening - Only ) : abdominal distension , anal discomfort , thirst , nausea , abdominal pain , sleep disorder , rigors , hunger , malaise , vomiting , and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution as a Two - Day Split - Dosing and One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen was evaluated in two randomized , active - controlled , multicenter , investigator - blinded clinical trials in adult patients scheduled to have an elective colonoscopy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The safety analysis for Study 1 included 359 adult patients ranging in age from 18 to 88 years ( mean age 59 ) , with 52 % female and 48 % male patients .
The safety analysis for Study 2 included 340 adult patients ranging in age from 21 to 76 years ( mean age 53 ) , with 53 % male and 47 % female patients .
Tables 1 and 2 display adverse reactions reported in at least 2 % and 5 % of patients in either treatment group in Study 1 and Study 2 , respectively .
Since diarrhea was considered as a part of the efficacy assessment , it was not defined as an adverse reaction in these trials .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions1 in Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy in Study 11 PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution Two - Day Split Dosing Regimen ( N = 180 ) 4 Liter PEG + Electrolytes Solution ( N = 179 ) Malaise 19 % 18 % Nausea 14 % 20 % Abdominal pain 13 % 15 % Vomiting 8 % 13 % Upper abdominal pain 6 % 6 % Dyspepsia 3 % 1 % 1 Reported in at least 2 % of patients in either treatment group Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions1 , 2 in Patients Undergoing Colonoscopy in Study 22 PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen ( N = 169 ) 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution ( N = 171 ) Abdominal distension 60 % 41 % Anal discomfort 51 % 52 % Thirst 47 % 65 % Nausea 47 % 47 % Abdominal pain 39 % 32 % Sleep disorder 35 % 29 % Rigors 34 % 30 % Hunger 30 % 71 % Malaise 27 % 53 % Vomiting 7 % 8 % Dizziness 7 % 18 % Headache 2 % 5 % Hypokalemia 0 % 6 % Hyperphosphatemia 0 % 6 % 1 Reported in at least 5 % of patients in either treatment group 2 Patients were specifically asked about the occurrence of the following symptoms : shivering , anal irritations , abdominal bloating or fullness , sleep loss , nausea , vomiting , weakness , hunger sensation , abdominal cramps or pain , thirst sensation , and dizziness .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution or other PEG - based products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia , palpitations , hypertension , arrhythmia , atrial fibrillation , peripheral edema , asystole , acute pulmonary edema and syncope , and dehydration .
Gastrointestinal : upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory - Weiss tear , esophageal perforation [ usually with gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) ] Hypersensitivity reactions : anaphylaxis ( some of which were severe , including shock ) , rash , urticaria , pruritus , lip , tongue and facial swelling , dyspnea , chest tightness and throat tightness , rhinorrhea , dermatitis , fever , and chills .
Nervous system : tremor , seizure .
Renal : renal impairment and / or failure .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risk for fluid and electrolyte imbalance .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase Risks due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for patients with conditions and / or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of renal impairment , seizures , arrhythmias , or QT prolongation in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] .
Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate .
7 . 2 Potential for Reduced Drug Absorption PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution can reduce the absorption of other co - administered drugs .
Administer oral medications at least 1 hour before the start of administration of each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis .
Avoid use of stimulant laxatives ( e . g . , bisacodyl , sodium picosulfate ) while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for adverse developmental outcomes .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data available on the presence of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed child , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution to a child during lactation ; therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the 413 patients in clinical trials receiving PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , 91 ( 22 % ) patients were aged 65 or older , while 25 ( 6 % ) patients were over 75 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between geriatric patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between geriatric patients and younger patients .
However , elderly patients are more likely to have decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and may be more susceptible to adverse reactions resulting from fluid and electrolyte abnormalities [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Use PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution with caution in patients with renal impairment or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
These patients may be at risk for renal injury .
Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before , during and after the use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , and consider performing baseline and post - colonoscopy laboratory tests ( electrolytes , creatinine , and BUN ) in these patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of more than the recommended dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution may lead to severe electrolyte disturbances , including hyponatremia and / or hypokalemia , as well as dehydration and hypovolemia , with signs and symptoms of these disturbances .
Certain severe electrolyte disturbances may lead to cardiac arrhythmias , seizures , and renal failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] .
Monitor for fluid and electrolyte disturbances and treat symptomatically .
11 DESCRIPTION PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is an osmotic laxative consisting of 6 pouches ( 2 of Pouch A , 2 of Pouch B and 2 of Lemon Flavor Pack ) containing white to yellow free flowing powder with odor of lemon for reconstitution .
Each Pouch A contains 100 grams of polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , NF , 7 . 5 grams of sodium sulfate , USP , 2 . 691 grams of sodium chloride , USP , and 1 . 015 grams of potassium chloride , USP .
Pouch A contains 111 . 2 g of powder for oral solution .
Each Pouch B contains 4 . 7 grams of ascorbic acid , USP and 5 . 9 grams of sodium ascorbate , USP .
Pouch B contains 10 . 6 g of powder for oral solution .
Each Lemon Flavor pack contains natural lemon flavor ; maltodextrin and saccharin sodium .
When 1 Pouch A , 1 Pouch B and 1 Lemon Flavor pack are dissolved together in water to a volume of 1 liter , PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is an oral solution having a lemon taste .
The entire , reconstituted , 2 - liter PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution colon preparation contains 200 grams of PEG - 3350 , 15 grams of sodium sulfate , 5 . 38 grams of sodium chloride , 2 . 03 grams of potassium chloride , 9 . 4 grams of ascorbic acid , and 11 . 8 grams of sodium ascorbate plus the following excipients : sodium saccharin , USP , maltodextrin , NF , and lemon flavoring .
A mixing container for reconstitution is enclosed .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The primary mode of action is osmotic action of polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride , potassium chloride , sodium ascorbate , and ascorbic acid , which induce a laxative effect .
The physiological consequence is increased water retention in the lumen of the colon , resulting in loose stools .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The colon cleansing efficacy and safety of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution was evaluated in two randomized , actively - controlled , multi - center , investigator - blinded trials in adult patients scheduled to have an elective colonoscopy .
In Study 1 , patients were randomized to one of the following two colon preparation treatments : 1 ) 2 liters of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution with 1 additional liter of clear liquid split into two doses ( during the evening before and the morning of the colonoscopy ) and 2 ) 4 liters of polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes solution ( 4 L PEG + E ) split into two doses ( during the evening before and the morning of the colonoscopy ) .
Patients were allowed to have a morning breakfast , a light lunch , clear soup and / or plain yogurt for dinner .
Dinner had to be completed at least one hour prior to initiation of the colon preparation administration .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with effective colon cleansing as judged by blinded gastroenterologists on the basis of videotapes recorded during the colonoscopy .
The blinded gastroenterologists graded the colon cleansing twice ( during introduction and withdrawal of the colonoscope ) and the poorer of the two assessments was used in the primary efficacy analysis .
The efficacy analysis included 308 adult patients who had an elective colonoscopy .
Patients ranged in age from 18 to 88 years old ( mean age about 59 years old ) with 52 % female and 48 % male patients .
Table 3 displays the results .
Table 3 : Effectiveness of Overall Colon Cleansing of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution vs . 4 Liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution in Study 1 Responders A 2 or B 3 ( % ) C 4 ( % ) D 5 ( % ) PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ( N = 153 ) 88 . 9 9 . 8 1 . 3 4 L PEG + E 1 ( N = 155 ) 94 . 8 4 . 5 0 . 6 14 L PEG + E is 4 Liter Polyethylene Glycol plus Electrolytes Solution .
2 A : colon empty and clean or presence of clear liquid , but easily removed by suction 3 B : brown liquid or semisolid remaining amounts of stool , fully removable by suction or displaceable , thus allowing a complete visualization of the gut mucosa 4 C : semisolid amounts of stool , only partially removable with a risk of incomplete visualization of the gut mucosa 5 D : semisolid or solid amounts of stool ; consequently colonoscopy incomplete or needed to be terminated .
4 L PEG + E ' s responder rate was not significantly higher than PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ' s responder rate .
In Study 2 , patients were randomized to one of the following two colon preparation treatments : 1 ) 2 liters of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution with 1 additional liter of clear liquid in the evening prior to the colonoscopy and 2 ) 90 mL of oral sodium phosphate solution ( 90 mL OSPS ) with at least 2 liters of additional clear liquid during the day and evening prior to the colonoscopy .
Patients randomized to PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution therapy were allowed to have a morning breakfast ; a light lunch ; and clear soup and / or plain yogurt for dinner .
Dinner had to be completed at least one hour prior to initiation of the colon preparation administration .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with effective colon cleansing as judged by the colonoscopist and one blinded gastroenterologist ( on the basis of videotapes recorded during the colonoscopy ) .
In case of a discrepancy between the colonoscopist and the blinded gastroenterologist , a second blinded gastroenterologist made the final efficacy determination .
The efficacy analysis included 280 adult patients who had an elective colonoscopy .
Patients ranged in age from 21 to 76 years old ( mean age about 53 years old ) with 47 % female and 53 % male patients .
Table 4 displays the results .
Table 4 : Effectiveness of Overall Colon Cleansing of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution Vs . 90 mL Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution in Study 2 Responders A 2 or B 3 ( % ) C 4 ( % ) D 5 ( % ) PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ( N = 137 ) 73 . 0 23 . 4 3 . 6 90 mL OSPS 1 ( N = 143 ) 64 . 4 29 . 4 6 . 3 1 OSPS is Oral Sodium Phosphate Solution .
2 A : empty and clean or clear liquid ( transparent , yellow , or green ) 3 B : brown liquid or semisolid remaining small amounts of stool , fully removable by suction or displaceable allowing a complete visualization of the underlying mucosa 4 C : semisolid only partially removable / displaceable stools ; risk of incomplete examination of the underlying mucosa 5 D : heavy and hard stool making the segment examination uninterpretable and , consequently , the colonoscopy needed to be terminated .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ' s responder rate was not significantly higher than OSPS ' s responder rate .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is supplied as a white to yellow free flowing powder with odor of lemon for reconstitution .
Pouch A contains 100 grams of PEG 3350 , NF ; 7 . 5 grams of sodium sulfate , NF ; 2 . 691 grams of sodium chloride , USP / NF ; and 1 . 015 gram of potassium chloride , USP / NF : NDC 0093 - 9044 - 19 .
Pouch B contains 4 . 7 grams of Ascorbic acid ; 5 . 9 grams of sodium ascorbate , USP / NF : NDC 0093 - 9043 - 19 .
Lemon flavor pack contains natural lemon flavor ; maltodextrin and saccharin sodium .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , mixing container : NDC 0093 - 9045 - 19 PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , single - use inner carton : The inner carton contains three pouches labeled Pouch A , Pouch B and lemon flavor pack : NDC 0093 - 3560 - 19 .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , single - use outer carton : Each outer carton contains 2 inner cartons , prescribing information and patient information and a mixing container with lid for reconstitution of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution : NDC 0093 - 3560 - 26 Storage Store carton / container at room temperature , between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
When reconstituted , store upright and keep solution refrigerated .
Use within 24 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide and Instructions for Use ) .
Instruct patients : • That two doses of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution are required for a complete preparation for colonoscopy either as a Split - Dose ( 2 - Day ) , or Evening Only ( 1 - Day ) dosing regimen [ see Instructions for Use ] .
• Not to take other laxatives while they are taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• That each pouch needs to be reconstituted in water before ingestion and that they should drink additional clear liquids .
Examples of clear liquids can be found in the Instructions for Use .
• Not to take oral medications within one hour of starting each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• To follow the directions in the Instructions for Use , for either the Two - Day Split - Dosing or the One - Day Evening Only Dosing regimen , as prescribed .
• To consume additional clear liquids before , during , and after the use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution to prevent dehydration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• To contact their healthcare provider if they develop significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution or if they experience altered consciousness or seizures [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 , 5 . 4 ) ] • Not to eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods containing pulp material .
• To stop drinking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals if they develop severe abdominal discomfort or distention until these symptoms diminish .
If severe symptoms persist , tell patients to contact their healthcare provider .
Distributed By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc North Wales , PA 19454 PI0402604001 Iss .
03 / 2019 MEDICATION GUIDE PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ( pol ˝ ee eth ´ i leen glye ´ kol , soeˊ dee um sul ' fate , soeˊ dee um klor ´ ide , poe tasˊee um klor ´ ide , soeˊ dee um a skor ´ bate , as koreˊ bik as ´ id for oral solution ) Read this Medication Guide and Instructions for Use before your colonoscopy and again before you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
What is the most important information I should know about PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution and other bowel preparations can cause serious side effects , including : • Serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) in your blood .
These changes can cause : • abnormal heartbeats that can cause death .
• seizures .
This can happen even if you have never had a seizure .
• kidney problems .
Your chance of having fluid loss and changes in body salts with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is higher if you : • have heart problems .
• have kidney problems .
• take water pills ( diuretics ) , high blood pressure medicine , or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDS ) .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms of serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution : • vomiting • dizziness • urinating less often than normal • headache See " What are the possible side effects of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is a prescription medicine used by adults to clean the colon before a colonoscopy .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution cleans your colon by causing you to have diarrhea ( loose stools ) .
Cleaning your colon helps your healthcare provider see the inside of your colon more clearly during your colonoscopy .
It is not known if PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution is safe and effective in children Who should not take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
Do not take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution if your healthcare provider has told you that you have : • a blockage in your intestine ( bowel obstruction ) .
• an opening in the wall of your stomach or intestine ( bowel perforation ) .
• problems with food and fluid emptying from your stomach ( gastric retention ) .
• a problem with food moving too slowly through your intestines ( ileus ) .
• a very dilated intestine ( toxic megacolon ) .
• an allergy to any of the ingredients in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
Before taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have problems with serious loss of body fluid ( dehydration ) and changes in blood salts ( electrolytes ) .
• have heart problems .
• have seizures or take medicines for seizures .
• have kidney problems or take medicines for kidney problems .
• have stomach or bowel problems , including ulcerative colitis .
• have problems with swallowing , gastric reflux , or if you inhale food or fluid into your lungs when eating or drinking ( aspirate ) .
• have a condition called glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) deficiency that destroys red blood cells .
• are withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines .
• are allergic to any of the ingredients in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution will harm your unborn baby .
• Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution passes into your breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution while breastfeeding .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution may affect how other medicines work .
Do not take medicines by mouth 1 hour before or after the start of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • medicines to treat a blood salt ( electrolyte ) imbalance .
• medicines for blood pressure or heart problems .
• medicines for seizures ( antiepileptics ) .
• medicines for kidney problems .
• water pills ( diuretics ) .
• non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ) .
• laxatives .
Do not take other laxatives while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• medicines for depression or other mental health problems .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if you are taking any of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
See the " Instructions for Use " for dosing instructions .
You must read , understand , and follow these instructions to take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution the right way .
• Take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
Your healthcare provider will tell you to take the Two - Day Split - Dosing regimen option or the One - Day Evening Only Dosing regimen option .
• On the day before the procedure , you can have breakfast , followed by a light lunch ( no solid foods ) , and dinner of clear soup with or without plain yogurt , or plain yogurt only .
You must finish dinner at least 1 hour before the start of the first PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution dose .
• Drink only clear liquids before , during , and after you take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , until 2 hours before your colonoscopy to help prevent fluid loss ( dehydration ) .
• Do not eat solid food while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution until after your colonoscopy .
• Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or any other foods with pulp .
• It is important for you to drink the additional amount of clear liquids listed in the Instructions for Use .
• You may have stomach - area ( abdomen ) bloating after your first dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• If you have severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) discomfort or bloating , stop drinking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for a short time or wait a longer time between each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution until your stomach - area symptoms improve .
If your stomach - area discomfort or bloating continues , tell your healthcare provider .
• If you take too much PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , call your healthcare provider What are the possible side effects of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution can cause serious side effects , including : • Changes in certain blood tests .
Your healthcare provider may do blood tests after you take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution to check your blood for changes .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any symptoms of too much fluid loss , including : • Vomiting • Dizziness • Feel faint , weak or lightheaded especially when you stand up ( orthostatic hypotension ) • Heart problems • Kidney problems • Seizures • Dry mouth • Ulcers of the bowel or bowel problems ( ischemic colitis ) : Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have severe stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain or rectal bleeding .
• Serious allergic reactions .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include : • Skin rash • Swelling of the face , lips , tongue and throat • Raised red patches on your skin ( hives ) • Itching • Kidney problems The most common side effects of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution include : • Anal discomfort • Thirst • Nausea • Stomach area ( abdomen pain or bloating ) • Sleep problems • Chills • Hunger • Discomfort • Vomiting • Indigestion • Dizziness These are not all the possible side effects of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
• Store PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution that has not been mixed with water at room temperature , between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
• Store PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution that has been mixed with water in an upright position in the refrigerator .
• PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution should be taken within 24 hours after it has been mixed with water .
Keep PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution to other people , even if they are going to have the same procedure you are .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 866 - 403 - 7592 What are the ingredients in PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution ?
Active ingredients : Pouch A : polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) 3350 , sodium sulfate , sodium chloride , potassium chloride .
Pouch B : ascorbic acid and sodium ascorbate .
Inactive ingredients : Lemon Flavor Pack : Natural lemon flavor , maltodextrin and Saccharin Sodium .
Distributed By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc North Wales , PA 19454 PI0402604001 Iss . 03 / 2019 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : March 2019 .
INSTRUCTION FOR USE PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution There are two different options for taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
Your healthcare provider will tell you to take the Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen option or the One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen option .
Important Information on PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution : • You must drink all of the Dose 1 and Dose 2 of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution with either dosing regimen option .
Make sure you finish Dose 2 at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
• After completing Dose 2 , it is important that you drink additional clear liquids ( including water ) , but you must stop drinking all liquids at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
• PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution must be mixed with water .
Do not add any other ingredients to PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• After you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , you can only drink clear liquids ( no solid foods ) until after your colonoscopy .
Examples of clear liquids include : • water • clear fruit juices without pulp including apple , white grape , or white cranberry • strained limeade or lemonade • coffee or tea ( do not use any dairy or non - dairy creamer ) • clear broth • clear soda • gelatin ( without added fruit or topping , no red or purple ) • popsicles ( without pieces of fruit or pulp , no red or purple ) • Drink plenty of clear liquids before , during , and after you take PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , up until 2 hours before your colonoscopy , to help prevent fluid loss ( dehydration ) .
• Do not eat or drink anything within 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
• Do not eat or drink alcohol , milk , anything colored red or purple or containing pulp .
• Do not take other laxatives while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Do not take any medicines by mouth ( oral ) within 1 hour before or after starting each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• Do not eat any solid food while taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution until after your colonoscopy .
To take each dose of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution , you will need : • Mixing Container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution • One Pouch A • One Pouch B • One Lemon Flavor pack • Lukewarm water • For the Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen : • On the day before the colonoscopy you can eat breakfast followed by a light lunch ( no solid foods ) .
For dinner you may have a clear soup with or without plain yogurt , or plain yogurt only .
• You must finish eating at least 1 hour before you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• You must take the first dose between 10 to 12 hours before the second dose .
The second dose must be taken at least 3 ½ hours before the colonoscopy .
• After you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution you can only drink clear liquids .
• For the One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen : • On the day before the colonoscopy you can eat breakfast followed by a light lunch .
For dinner you may have a clear soup with or without plain yogurt , or plain yogurt only .
• You must finish eating at least 1 hour before you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
• You must take the first dose 3 ½ hours before bedtime the evening before the colonoscopy .
• After you start taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution you can only drink clear liquids .
• Take the second dose 1 ½ hours after starting Dose 1 .
Two - Day Split - Dosing Regimen Dosing Instructions Dose 1 – Take this dose the evening before your colonoscopy ( 10 to 12 hours before Dose 2 ) : Step 1 : Empty the contents of one Pouch A one Pouch B and one Lemon Flavor Pack into the Mixing Container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the Mixing Container .
You will need at least 32 ounces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Mix to completely dissolve the medicine from Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon Flavor Pack into the lukewarm water .
To mix the solution , stir the medicine in the Mixing Container with a spoon , or close the lid and shake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Drink one 8 oz .
( ounce ) glass of the solution every 15 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution in the Mixing Container .
It should take about 1 hour to drink all the liquid .
If you feel like you have severe stomach pain or discomfort you can stop taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for a short period of time and then continue taking it or you can take smaller sips of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution so that you space out your dose longer than 1 hour .
If you still have severe stomach pain , call your healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Refill the Mixing Container with 16 oz .
( at least halfway to Fill Line and enough for two 8 oz .
glasses ) of a clear liquid and drink all of this liquid before you go to bed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Dose 2 – Take this dose the next morning on the day of your colonoscopy ( start at least 3 ½ hours before your colonoscopy ) : Step 1 : Repeat steps 1 through 4 from Dose 1 of the Split - Dose ( 2 - Day ) instructions .
Step 2 : Fill the Mixing Container with 16 oz .
( at least halfway to Fill Line and enough for two 8 oz .
glasses ) of a clear liquid and drink all of this liquid at least 2 hours before your colonoscopy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Drink only clear liquids up to 2 hours before your colonoscopy or as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Then stop drinking liquids until after your colonoscopy .
One - Day Evening Only Dosing Regimen Instructions Dose 1 ( take at least 3 ½ hours before bedtime the evening before your colonoscopy ) : Step 1 : Empty the contents of one Pouch A and one Pouch B and one Lemon Flavor Pack into the Mixing Container that comes with PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 : Add lukewarm water to the Fill Line on the Mixing Container .
You will need at least 32 ounces .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Mix to completely dissolve the medicine from Pouch A , Pouch B and Lemon Flavor pack into the lukewarm water .
To mix the solution , stir the medicine in the Mixing Container with a spoon , or close the lid and shake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 : Drink one 8 oz .
( ounce ) glass of the solution every 15 minutes .
Be sure to drink all of the solution in the Mixing Container .
It should take about 1 hour to drink all the liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] If you feel like you have severe stomach pain or discomfort you can stop taking PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution for a short period of time and then continue taking it or you can take smaller sips of PEG - 3350 , Sodium Sulfate , Sodium Chloride , Potassium Chloride , Sodium Ascorbate , and Ascorbic Acid for Oral Solution so that you space out your dose longer than 1 hour .
If you still have severe stomach pain , call your healthcare provider .
Dose 2 ( take about 1 ½ hours after starting Dose 1 ) : Step 1 : Repeat Steps 1 through 4 from Dose 1 of the Evening Only ( 1 - Day ) instructions .
Step 2 : After you complete steps 1 through 4 , fill the Mixing Container again to the Fill Line with clear liquid and drink all of this liquid before you go to bed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 : Drink only clear liquids up to 2 hours before your colonoscopy or as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Then stop drinking liquids until after your colonoscopy .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed By : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 PI0402604001 Issued : March 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
