This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 70 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Isopropyl Alcohol ( 0 . 5 % v / v ) .
• Glycerin ( 0 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Ginger Oil ( 0 . 05 % v / v ) .
• Water ( 29 % v / v ) .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol 70 % v / v , Isopropyl Alcohol 0 . 5 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria on the skin .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame Do not use • Children 6 years of age should be supervised when using LORO .
When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash appears and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together briskly until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using LORO .
Other information • Store below 110 Degree F ( 43 Degree C ) • May discolor certain fabrics and surfaces Inactive ingredients Water ( Aqua ) , Glycerin , Ginger Oil .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 222 mL NDC : 78185 - 018 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
