Chlorhexidine gluconate solution 4 . 0 % w / v Antiseptic Uses • antimicrobial skin cleanser helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • for skin wound and general skin cleansing • surgical hand scrub • healthcare peronnel handwash For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • if you or the patient is allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • in contact with the meninges • in the genital area When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious and permanent eye injury if permitted to enter and remain in the eye or may cause deafness when instilled in the middle ear through perforated eardrums • if contact occurs in any of these areas , rinse with cold water right away • wounds which involve more than the superficial layers of the skin should not be routinely treated • repeated general cleansing of large body areas should not be done except when advised by a health care provider Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• skin wound and general skin cleansing .
Thoroughly rinse the area to be cleansed with water .
Apply the minimum amount of the product necessary to cover the skin or wound area and wash gently .
Rinse thoroughly .
• surgical hand scrub .
Wet hands and forearms with water .
Scrub for 3 minutes with about 5 mL of the product with a brush .
Rinse thoroughly under running water .
Repeat .
Dry thoroughly .
• healthcare personnel handwash .
Wet hand with water .
Dispense about 5 mL of the product into cupped hands and wash in a vigorous manner for 15 seconds .
Rinse and dry thoroughly .
Other information • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) fragrance , gluconolactone , isopropyl alcohol 4 % w / v , lauramine oxide , poloxamer 237 , purified water and red 40 Questions ?
1 - 800 - 843 - 8497 Chlorhexidine gluconate [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
