OrthoNeutrogena Rx only For Dermatologic Use DESCRIPTION Each gram of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % contains 20 mg mupirocin in a soft white ointment base consisting of castor oil , oleyl alcohol , hard fat ( Softisan ® 378 ) and propylene glycol monostearate .
Mupirocin is a naturally occurring antibiotic .
The chemical name is ( E ) - ( 2 S , 3 R , 4 R , 5 S ) - 5 - [ ( 2 S , 3 S , 4 S , 5 S ) - 2 , 3 - Epoxy - 5 - hydroxy - 4 - methylhexyl ] tetrahydro - 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - β - methyl - 2 H - pyran - 2 - crotonic acid , ester with 9 - hydroxynonanoic acid .
The molecular formula of mupirocin is C26H44O9 and the molecular weight is 500 . 63 .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following the application of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % to a 400 cm2 area on the back of 23 healthy volunteers once daily for 7 days , the mean ( range ) cumulative urinary excretion of monic acid over 24 hrs following the last administration was 1 . 25 % ( 0 . 2 % to 3 . 0 % ) of the administered dose of mupirocin .
The monic acid concentration in urine collected at specified intervals for 24 hrs on Day 7 ranged from < 0 . 050 to 0 . 637 μg / mL .
Microbiology : Mupirocin is an antibacterial agent produced by fermentation using the organism Pseudomonas fluorescens .
Its spectrum of activity includes gram - positive bacteria .
It is also active , in vitro only , against certain gram - negative bacteria .
Mupirocin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by reversibly and specifically binding to bacterial isoleucyl transfer - RNA synthetase .
Due to this unique mode of action , mupirocin does not demonstrate cross - resistance with other classes of antimicrobial agents .
When mupirocin resistance occurs , it results from the production of a modified isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase or the acquisition , by genetic transfer , of a plasmid mediating a new isoleucyl - tRNA synthetase .
High - level plasmid - mediated resistance ( MIC > 500 mcg / mL ) has been reported in increasing numbers of isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and with higher frequency in coagulase - negative staphylococci .
Methicillin resistance and mupirocin resistance commonly occur together in Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase negative staphylococci .
Mupirocin is bactericidal at concentrations achieved by topical administration .
However , the minimum bactericidal concentration ( MBC ) against relevant pathogens is generally eight - fold to thirty - fold higher than the minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) .
In addition , mupirocin is highly protein bound ( > 97 % ) , and the effect of wound secretions on the MICs of mupirocin has not been determined .
Mupirocin has been shown to be active against susceptible strains of Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes , both in vitro and in clinical studies .
( See INDICATIONS AND USAGE . )
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is indicated for the topical treatment of impetigo due to : Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity reactions to any of its components .
WARNINGS Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate alternative therapy for the infection instituted .
As with other antibacterial products , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is not formulated for use on mucosal surfaces .
Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is not intended for nasal use .
Information for Patients : Use this medication only as directed by your healthcare provider .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
The medication should be stopped and your healthcare practitioner contacted if irritation , severe itching or rash occurs .
If impetigo has not improved in 3 to 5 days , contact your healthcare practitioner .
Drug Interactions : The effect of the concurrent application of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % and other drug products is unknown .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential of mupirocin have not been conducted .
Results of the following studies performed with mupirocin calcium or mupirocin sodium in vitro and in vivo did not indicate a potential for genotoxicity : rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis , sediment analysis for DNA strand breaks , Salmonella reversion test ( Ames ) , Escherichia coli mutation assay , metaphase analysis of human lymphocytes , mouse lymphoma assay , and bone marrow micronuclei assay in mice .
Reproduction studies were performed in male and female rats with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 14 times the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin / day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed neither evidence of impaired fertility nor impaired reproductive performance attributable to mupirocin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects .
Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits with mupirocin administered subcutaneously at doses up to 22 and 43 times , respectively , the human topical dose ( approximately 60 mg mupirocin per day ) on a mg / m2 basis and revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to mupirocin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % have been established in the age range of 2 months to 16 years .
Use of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % in impetigo in pediatric patients studied as a part of the pivotal clinical trials .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions have been reported in connection with the use of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % ; application site reactions and pruritus , each in 1 % of patients ; contact dermatitis and furunculosis , each in 0 . 7 % of patients ; and exfoliative dermatitis and rash , each in 0 . 3 % of patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % should be applied to the affected area three times daily .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired .
Patients not showing a clinical response within 3 to 5 days should be re - evaluated .
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of topical Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % in impetigo was tested in one study .
Patients with impetigo were randomized to receive either Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % or Bactroban ® Ointment ( mupirocin ointment , 2 % ) t . i . d . for 7 days .
Clinical efficacy rates at the follow - up visit ( one week after end of therapy ) in the evaluable populations ( adults and pediatric patients included ) were 94 % for Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % ( n = 233 ) and 95 % for Bactroban ® Ointment ( mupirocin ointment , 2 % ) ( n = 242 ) .
Pathogen eradication rates at follow - up for both medications were 98 % .
Pediatrics There were 413 pediatric patients aged 2 months to 15 years in the clinical study described above .
Clinical efficacy rates at follow - up in the evaluable populations were 93 % for Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % ( n = 199 ) and 95 % for Bactroban ® Ointment ( mupirocin ointment , 2 % ) ( n = 214 ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Centany ( mupirocin ointment ) , 2 % is supplied in 15 gram ( NDC 0062 - 1610 - 01 ) and 30 gram ( NDC 0062 - 1610 - 03 ) tubes .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
OrthoNeutrogena Distributed by : OrthoNeutrogena , Division of Ortho - McNeil Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Skillman , New Jersey 08558 © OMP 2004 Rev : April 2004 Printed in USA 635 - 10 - 686 - 3 U . S . Patent No . 6 , 013 , 657
