Drug Facts Active Ingredient Stannous Fluoride 0 . 63 % w / w ( 0 . 19 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose anticavity Uses • Aids in the prevention of dental caries ( cavities ) .
• Control of perio infection • Relief of dentin sensitivity Warnings When using this product it may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate toothbrushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for rinsing s accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Do not use before mixing with water • Use immediately after preparing the rinse Adults and children 6 years of age and older : • Use as directed by a dental professional • Use once a day after brushing your teeth with a toothpaste or as directed by your dentist • Remove cap and seal and replace with pump • Rotate spout counter clockwise to extend • Depress pump until medicine comes to the tip of the pump • Put 1 / 8 oz .
( approx .
2 pump strokes ) of concentrated Pro - DenRx Rinse into the provided mixing vial • Add water to 1 oz .
line on mixing vial • Tightly snap on the cap and shake well • Vigorously swish between your teeth 1 / 2 of mixture for one minute and then spit out • Repeat procedure with remaining mixture • Rinse mixing vial with water after use • Do not swallow the rinse • Do not eat or drink for 30 minutes after rinsing Children 6 to 12 years of age : • Instruct children in good rinsing habits ( to minimize swallowing ) • Supervise children as necessary until capable of using without supervision Children under 6 years of age : • Consult a dentist or doctor For home irrigation • Prepare 1 oz .
of Pro - DenRx Rinse as described above • Pour into irrigator reservoir , add 4 oz .
of water and mix thoroughly • Use irrigator as directed • Rinse irrigator with water after use Other information For your protection , do not use if seal under the cap is broken or missing .
Inactive ingredients flavor , glycerin , methylparaben , propylparaben , sodium saccharin Principal Display Panel - Carton Label NDC 59883 - 720 - 08 pro - denRx ® dye free rinse 0 . 63 % stannous fluoride cool mint flavor IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use .
10 fl .
oz .
( 283 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Tube Label NDC 59883 - 720 - 08 pro - denRx ® dye free rinse 0 . 63 % stannous fluoride mint flavor IMPORTANT : Read directions for proper use .
10 fl .
oz .
( 283 . 5 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
