DESCRIPTION Cefotaxime for injection is a semisynthetic , broad spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic for parenteral administration .
It is the sodium salt of 7 - [ 2 - ( 2 - amino - 4 - thiazolyl ) glyoxylamido ] - 3 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 8 - oxo - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylate 72 ( Z ) - ( o - methyloxime ) , acetate ( ester ) .
Cefotaxime for injection , USP contains approximately 50 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 mEq ) of sodium per gram of cefotaxime activity .
Solutions of Cefotaxime for injection , USP range from very pale yellow to light amber depending on the concentration and the diluent used .
The pH of the injectable solutions usually ranges from 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C16H16N5NaO7S2 and the molecular weight is 477 . 45 Cefotaxime for injection , USP is supplied as a dry powder in conventional vials .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Following IM administration of a single 500 mg or 1 g dose of Cefotaxime to normal volunteers , mean peak serum concentrations of 11 . 7 and 20 . 5 mcg / mL respectively were attained within 30 minutes and declined with an elimination half - life of approximately 1 hour .
There was a dose - dependent increase in serum levels after the IV administration of 500 mg , 1 g , and 2 g of Cefotaxime ( 38 . 9 , 101 . 7 , and 214 . 4 mcg / mL respectively ) without alteration in the elimination half - life .
There is no evidence of accumulation following repetitive IV infusion of 1 g doses every 6 hours for 14 days as there are no alterations of serum or renal clearance .
About 60 % of the administered dose was recovered from urine during the first 6 hours following the start of the infusion .
Approximately 20 - 36 % of an intravenously administered dose of 14 C - cefotaxime is excreted by the kidney as unchanged cefotaxime and 15 - 25 % as the desacetyl derivative , the major metabolite .
The desacetyl metabolite has been shown to contribute to the bactericidal activity .
Two other urinary metabolites ( M2 and M3 ) account for about 20 - 25 % .
They lack bactericidal activity .
A single 50 mg / kg dose of Cefotaxime was administered as an intravenous infusion over a 10 - to 15 - minute period to 29 newborn infants grouped according to birth weight and age .
The mean half - life of cefotaxime in infants with lower birth weights ( 1500 grams ) , regardless of age , was longer ( 4 . 6 hours ) than the mean half - life ( 3 . 4 hours ) in infants whose birth weight was greater than ≤ 1500 grams .
Mean serum clearance was also smaller in the lower birth weight infants .
Although the differences in mean half - life values are statistically significant for weight , they are not clinically important .
Therefore , dosage should be based solely on age .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Additionally , no disulfiram - like reactions were reported in a study conducted in 22 healthy volunteers administered Cefotaxime and ethanol . Microbiology The bactericidal activity of cefotaxime sodium results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Cefotaxime sodium has in vitro activity against a wide range of gram - positive and gram - negative organisms .
Cefotaxime sodium has a high degree of stability in the presence of ß - lactamases , both penicillinases and cephalosporinases , of gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
Cefotaxime sodium has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Aerobes , Gram - positive : Enterococcus spp .
Staphylococcus aureus * , including ß - lactamase - positive and negative strains Staphylococcus epidermidis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus pyogenes ( Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci ) Streptococcus spp .
* Staphylococci which are resistant to methicillin / oxacillin must be considered resistant to cefotaxime sodium .
Aerobes , Gram - negative : Acinetobacter spp .
Citrobacter spp .
Enterobacter spp .
Escherichia coli Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin - resistant strains ) Haemophilus parainfluenzae Klebsiella spp .
( including Klebsiella pneumoniae ) Morganella morganii Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( including ß - lactamase - positive and negative strains ) Neisseria meningitidis Proteus mirabilis Proteus vulgaris Providencia rettgeri Providencia stuartii Serratia marcescens NOTE : Many strains of the above organisms that are multiply resistant to other antibiotics , e . g . penicillins , cephalosporins , and aminoglycosides , are susceptible to cefotaxime sodium .
Cefotaxime sodium is active against some strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
Anaerobes : Bacteroides spp . , including some strains of Bacteroidesfragilis Clostridium spp .
( Note : Most strains of Clostridium difficile are resistant . )
Fusobacterium spp .
( Including Fusobacterium nucleatum ) .
Peptococcus spp .
Peptostreptococcus spp .
Cefotaxime sodium also demonstrates in vitro activity against the following microorganisms but the clinical significance is unknown .
Cefotaxime sodium exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MIC ' s ) of 8 mcg / mL or less against most ( ≥ 90 % ) strains of the following microorganisms ; however , the safety and effectiveness of cefotaxime sodium in treating clinical infections due to these microorganisms have not been established in adequate and well - controlled clinical trials : Aerobes , Gram - negative : Providencia spp .
Salmonella spp .
( including Salmonella typhi ) Shigella spp .
Cefotaxime sodium is highly stable in vitro to four of the five major classes of 5 - lactamases described by Richmond et al . 1 , including type IIIa ( TEM ) which is produced by many gram - negative bacteria .
The drug is also stable to ß - lactamase ( penicillinase ) produced by staphylococci .
In addition , cefotaxime sodium shows high affinity for penicillin - binding proteins in the cell wall , including PBP : Ib and III .
Cefotaxime sodium and aminoglycosides have been shown to be synergistic in vitro against some strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa but the clinical significance is unknown .
Susceptibility Tests Dilution techniques : Quantitative methods that are used to determine minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MIC ' s ) provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure uses a standardized dilution method1 ( broth or agar ) or equivalent with cefotaxime sodium powder .
The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : When testing organismsa other than Haemophilus spp . , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , and Streptococcus spp .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 8 16 - 32 ≥ 64 Susceptible ( S ) Intermediate ( I ) Resistant ( R ) When testing Haemophilus spp . b MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretationc ≤ 2 Susceptible ( S ) When testing Streptococcusd MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 0 . 5 1 ≥ 2 Susceptible ( S ) Intermediate ( I ) Resistant ( R ) When testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaea MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretationc ≤ 0 . 5 Susceptible ( S ) a . Staphylococci exhibiting resistance to methicillin / oxacillin , should be reported as also resistant to cefotaxime despite apparent in vitro susceptibility .
b . Interpretive criteria is applicable only to tests performed by broth microdilution method using Haemophilus Test Media . 2 c .
The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any interpretations other than susceptible .
d . Streptococcus pneumoniae must be tested using cation - adjusted Mueller - Hinton broth with 2 - 5 % lysed horse blood .
e . Interpretive criteria applicable only to tests performed by agar dilution method using GC agar base with 1 % defined growth supplement . 2 A report of “ Susceptible ” indicates that the pathogen is likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable .
A report of “ Intermediate ” indicates that the result should be considered equivocal and if the microorganism is not fully susceptible to alternative clinically feasible drugs the test should be repeated .
This category implies possible clinical applicability in body sites where the drug is physiologically concentrated or in situations where high dosage of drug can be used .
This category also provides a buffer zone that prevents small uncontrolled technical factors from causing major discrepancies in interpretation .
A report of “ Resistant ” indicates that the pathogen is not likely to be inhibited if the antimicrobial compound in the blood reaches the concentrations usually achievable , other therapy should be selected .
Standardized susceptibility test procedures require the use of laboratory control microorganisms to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedure .
Standard cefotaxime sodium powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 29213 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 Haemophilus influenzaea ATCC 49247 Streptococcus pneumoniaeb ATCC 49619 Neisseria gonorrhoeaec ATCC 49226 0 . 06 - 0 . 25 1 - 4 4 - 16 0 . 12 - 0 . 5 0 . 06 - 0 . 25 0 . 015 - 0 . 06 a . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by broth microdilution method using Haemophilus Test Media . 2 b . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by broth microdilution method using cation - adjusted Mueller - Hinton broth with 2 - 5 % lysed horse blood . 2 c . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by agar dilution method using GC agar base with 1 % defined growth supplement . 2 Diffusion Techniques : Quantitative methods that require measurements of zone diameters also provide reproducible estimates of the susceptibility of bacteria to antimicrobial compounds .
One such standardized procedure3 requires the use of standardized inoculum concentrations .
This procedure uses paper disks impregnated with 30 mcg cefotaxime sodium to test the susceptibility of microorganisms to cefotaxime sodium .
Reports from the laboratory providing results of the standard single - disk susceptibility test using a 30 mcg cefotaxime sodium disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : When testing organismsa other than Haemophilus spp . , Neisseria gonorrhoeae , and Streptococcus spp .
MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≥ 23 15 - 22 ≤ 14 Susceptible ( S ) Intermediate ( I ) Resistant ( R ) When testing Haemophilus spp . b Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretationc ≥ 26 Susceptible ( S ) When testing Streptococcus other than Streptococcus pneumoniae Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretation ≥ 28 26 - 27 ≤ 25 Susceptible ( S ) Intermediate ( I ) Resistant ( R ) When testing Neisseria gonorrhoeaed Zone Diameter ( mm ) Interpretationc ≥ 31 Susceptible ( S ) a . Staphylococci exhibiting resistance to methicillin / oxacillin , should be reported as also resistant to cefotaxime despite apparent in vitro susceptibility .
b . Interpretive criteria is applicable only to tests performed by disk diffusion method using Haemophilus Test Media . 3 c . The absence of resistant strains precludes defining any interpretations other than susceptible .
d . Interpretive criteria applicable only to tests performed by disk diffusion method using GC agar base with 1 % defined growth supplement . 3 Interpretation should be as stated above for results using dilution techniques .
Interpretation involves correlation of the diameter obtained in the disk test with the MIC for cefotaxime sodium .
As with standardized dilution techniques , diffusion methods require the use of laboratory control microorganisms that are used to control the technical aspects of the laboratory procedures .
For the diffusion technique , the 30 mcg cefotaxime sodium disk should provide the following zone diameters in these laboratory test quality control strains : Microorganism Zone Diameter ( mm ) Escherichia coli ATCC 25922 Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 Haemophilus influenzaea ATCC 49247 Neisseria gonorrhoeaeb ATCC 49226 29 - 35 25 - 31 18 - 22 31 - 29 38 - 48 a . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by disk diffusion method using Haemophilus Test Media . 3 b . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by disk diffusion method using GC agar base with 1 % defined growth supplement . 3 Anaerobic Techniques : For anaerobic bacteria , the susceptibility to cefotaxime sodium as MICs can be determined by standardized test methods . 4 The MIC values obtained should be interpreted according to the following criteria : MIC ( mcg / mL ) Interpretation ≤ 16 32 ≥ 64 Susceptible ( S ) Intermediate ( I ) Resistant ( R ) Interpretation is identical to that stated above for results using dilution techniques .
As with other susceptibility techniques , the use of laboratory control microorganisms is required to control the technical aspects of the laboratory standardized procedures .
Standardized cefotaxime sodium powder should provide the following MIC values : Microorganism MIC ( mcg / mL ) Bacteroides fragilisaATCC 25285 Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron ATCC 29741 Eubacterium lantem ATCC 43055 8 - 32 16 - 64 64 - 256 a . Ranges applicable only to tests performed by agar dilution method .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefotaxime for injection and other antibacterial drugs , cefotaxime for injection should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Treatment Cefotaxime is indicated for the treatment of patients with serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the diseases listed below .
• Lower respiratory tract infections , including pneumonia , caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae ( formerly Diplococcus pneumoniae ) , Streptococcus pyogenes * ( Group A streptococci ) and other streptococci ( excluding enterococci , e . g . , Enterococcus faecalis ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Haemophilus influenzae ( including ampicillin resistant strains ) , Haemophilus parainfluenzae , Proteus mirabilis , Serratia marcescens * , Enterobacter species , indole positive Proteus and Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa ) .
• Genitourinary infections .
Urinary tract infections caused by Enterococcus species , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Staphylococcus aureus * , ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Citrobacter species , Enterobacter species , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris * , Providencia stuartii , Morganella morganii * , Providencia rettgeri * , Serratia marcescens and Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa ) .
Also , uncomplicated gonorrhea ( cervical / urethral and rectal ) caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae , including penicillinase producing sjtrains .
• Gynecologic infections , including pelvic inflammatory disease , endometritis and pelvic cellulitis caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus species , Enterococcus species , Enterobacter species * , Klebsiella species * , Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Bacteroides species ( including Bacteroides fragilis * ) , Clostridium species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus species and Peptococcus species ) and Fusobacterium species ( including F . Nucleatum * ) .
Cefotaxime , like other cephalosporins , has no activity against Chlamydia trachomatis .
Therefore , when cephalosporins are used in the treatment of patients with pelvic inflammatory disease and C . trachomatis is one of the suspected pathogens , appropriate anti - chlamydial coverage should be added .
• Bacteremia / Septicemia caused by Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , and Serratia marcescens , Staphylococcus aureus andStreptococcus species ( including S . pneumonia ) .
• Skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing ) , Staphylococcus epidermidis , Streptococcus pyogenes ( Group A streptococci ) and other streptococci , Enterococcus species , Acinetobacter species * , Escherichia coli , Citrobacter species ( including C . freundii * ) , Enterobacter species , Klebsiella species , Proteus mirabilis , Proteus vulgaris * , Morganella morganii , Providencia rettgeri * , Pseudomonas species , Serratia marcescens , Bacteroides species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus * species and Peptococcus species ) .
• Intra - abdominal infections including peritonitis caused by Streptococcus species * , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella species , Bacteroides species , and anaerobic cocci ( including Peptostreptococcus * species and Peptococcus * species ) Proteus mirabilis * , and Clostridium species * .
• Bone and / or joint infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing strains ) , Streptococcus species ( including S . pyogenes * ) , Pseudomonas species ( including P . aeruginosa * ) , and Proteus mirabilis * .
• Central nervous system infections , e . g . , meningitis and ventriculitis , caused by Neisseria meningitidis , Haemophilus influenzae , Streptococcus pneumoniae , Klebsiella pneumoniae * and Escherichia coli * .
( * ) Efficacy for this organism , in this organ system , has been studied in fewer than 10 infections .
Although many strains of enterococci ( e . g . , S . faecalis ) and Pseudomonas species are resistant to cefotaxime sodium in vitro , Cefotaxime has been used successfully in treating patients with infections caused by susceptible organisms .
Specimens for bacteriologic culture should be obtained prior to therapy in order to isolate and identify causative organisms and to determine their susceptibilities to Cefotaxime .
Therapy may be instituted before results of susceptibility studies are known ; however , once these results become available , the antibiotic treatment should be adjusted accordingly .
In certain cases of confirmed or suspected gram - positive or gram - negative sepsis or in patients with other serious infections in which the causative organism has not been identified , Cefotaxime may be used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside .
The dosage recommended in the labeling of both antibiotics may be given and depends on the severity of the infection and the patient ' s condition .
Renal function should be carefully monitored , especially if higher dosages of the aminoglycosides are to be administered or if therapy is prolonged , because of the potential nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity of aminoglycoside antibiotics .
It is possible that nephrotoxicity may be potentiated if Cefotaxime is used concomitantly with an aminoglycoside .
( * ) Efficacy for this organism , in this organ system , has been studied in fewer than 10 infections .
Prevention The administration of Cefotaxime preoperatively reduces the incidence of certain infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures ( e . g . , abdominal or vaginal hysterectomy , gastrointestinal and genitourinary tract surgery ) that may be classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated .
In patients undergoing cesarean section , intraoperative ( after clamping the umbilical cord ) and postoperative use of Cefotaxime may also reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Effective use for elective surgery depends on the time of administration .
To achieve effective tissue levels , Cefotaxime should be given 1 / 2 or 1 1 / 2 hours before surgery .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
For patients undergoing gastrointestinal surgery , preoperative bowel preparation by mechanical cleansing as well as with a non - absorbable antibiotic ( e . g . , neomycin ) is recommended .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for culture should be obtained for identification of the causative organism so that appropriate therapy may be instituted .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of cefotaxime and other antibacterial drugs , cefotaxime should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cefotaxime is contraindicated in patients who have shown hypersensitivity to cefotaxime sodium , any component of cefotaxime for injection , or the cephalosporin group of antibiotics .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFOTAXIME IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFOTAXIME SODIUM , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
THIS PRODUCT SHOULD BE GIVEN WITH CAUTION TO PATIENTS WITH TYPE I HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO PENICILLIN .
ANTIBIOTICS SHOULD BE ADMINISTERED WITH CAUTION TO ANY PATIENT WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED SOME FORM OF ALLERGY , PARTICULARLY TO DRUGS .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFOTAXIME OCCURS , DISCONTINUE TREATMENT WITH THE DRUG .
SERIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES .
During post - marketing surveillance , a potentially life - threatening arrhythmia was reported in each of six patients who received a rapid ( less than 60 seconds ) bolus injection of cefotaxime through a central venous catheter .
Therefore , cefotaxime should only be administered as instructed in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefotaxim , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
PRECAUTIONS General Prescribing cefotaxime for injection in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Cefotaxime should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Because high and prolonged serum antibiotic concentrations can occur from usual doses in patients with transient or persistent reduction of urinary output because of renal insufficiency , the total daily dosage should be reduced when Cefotaxime is administered to such patients .
Continued dosage should be determined by degree of renal impairment , severity of infection , and susceptibility of the causative organism .
Although there is no clinical evidence supporting the necessity of changing the dosage of cefotaxime sodium in patients with even profound renal dysfunction , it is suggested that , until further data are obtained , the dose of cefotaxime sodium be halved in patients with estimated creatinine clearances of less than 20 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
When only serum creatinine is available , the following formula5 ( based on sex , weight , and age of the patient ) may be used to convert this value into creatinine clearance .
The serum creatinine should represent a steady state of renal function .
Weight ( kg ) x ( 140 - age ) Males : 72 x serum creatinine Females : 0 . 85 x above value As with other antibiotics , prolonged use of Cefotaxime may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Repeated evaluation of the patient ' s condition is essential .
If superinfection occurs during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
As with other beta - lactam antibiotics , granulocytopenia and , more rarely , agranulocytosis may develop during treatment with Cefotaxime , articularly if given over long periods .
For courses of treatment lasting longer than 10 days , blood counts should therefore be monitored .
Cefotaxime , like other parenteral anti - infective drugs , may be locally irritating to tissues .
In most cases , perivascular extravasation of Cefotaxime responds to changing of the infusion site .
In rare instances , extensive perivascular extravasation of Cefotaxime may result in tissue damage and require surgical treatment .
To minimize the potential for tissue inflammation , infusion sites should be monitored regularly and changed when appropriate .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including cefotaxime for injection should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When cefotaxime for injection is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by cefotaxime for injection or other bacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions Increased nephrotoxicity has been reported following concomitant administration of cephalosporins and aminoglycoside antibiotics .
Probenecid interferes with the renal tubular transfer of cephalosporins , thereby delaying their excretion and increasing their plasma concentrations .
As with other cephalosporins , cefotaxime may potentiate the renal toxicity of nephrotoxic drugs .
See INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Cephalosporins , including cefotaxime sodium , are known to occasionally induce a positive direct Coombs ' test .
Urinary glucose testing with non - specific reducing agents may yield a false - positive reaction in patients treated with cefotaxime .
This phenomenon is not seen when a glucose - oxidase specific method is used .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis Lifetime studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential have not been conducted .
Cefotaxime was not mutagenic in the mouse micronucleus test or in the Ames ' test .
Cefotaxime did not impair fertility to rats when administered subcutaneously at doses up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) or in mice when administered intravenously at doses up to 2000 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 7 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant mice given cefotaxime intravenously at doses up to 1200 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 4 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) or in pregnant rats when administered intravenously at doses up to 1200 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 8 times the recommended human dose based on mg / m2 ) .
No evidence of embryotoxicity or teratogenicity was seen in these studies .
Although cefotaxime has been reported to cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood , the effect on the human fetus is not known .
There are no well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects Use of the drug in women of child - bearing potential requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against the possible risks .
In perinatal and postnatal studies with rats , the pups in the group given 1200 mg / kg / day of Cefotaxime were significantly lighter in weight at birth and remained smaller than pups in the control group during the 21 days of nursing .
Nursing Mothers Cefotaxime is excreted in human milk in low concentrations .
Caution should be exercised when Cefotaxime is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use See Precautions above regarding perivascular extravasation .
Geriatric Use Of the 1409 subjects in clinical studies of cefotaxime , 632 ( 45 % ) were 65 and over , while 258 ( 18 % ) were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience Cefotaxime for injection is generally well tolerated .
The most common adverse reactions have been local reactions following IM or IV injection .
Other adverse reactions have been encountered infrequently .
The most frequent adverse reactions ( greater than 1 % ) are : Local ( 4 . 3 % ) - Injection site inflammation with IV administration .
Pain , induration , and tenderness after IM injection .
Hypersensitivity ( 2 . 4 % ) - Rash , pruritus , fever , eosinophilia .
Gastrointestinal ( 1 . 4 % ) - Colitis , diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
Symptoms of pseudomembranous colitis can appear during or after antibiotic treatment .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Less frequent adverse reactions ( less than 1 % ) are : Hematologic System - Neutropenia , transient leukopenia , have been reported .
Some individuals have developed positive direct Coombs Tests during treatment with cefotaxime for injection and other cephalosporin antibiotics .
Genitourinary System - Moniliasis , vaginitis .
Central Nervous System - Headache .
Liver - Transient elevations in AST , ALT , serum LDH , and serum alkaline phosphatase levels have been reported .
Kidney - As with some other cephalosporins , transient elevations of BUN have been occasionally observed with cefotaxime for injection .
Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of cefotaxime for injection .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular System - Potentially life - threatening arrhythmias following rapid ( less than 60 seconds ) bolus administration via central venous catheter have been observed .
Central Nervous System - Administration of high doses of beta - lactam antibiotics , including cefotaxime , particularly in patients with renal insufficiency may result in encephalopathy ( e . g . impairment of consciousness , abnormal movements and convulsions ) .
Cutaneous - As with other cephalosporins , isolated cases of toxic epidermal necrolysis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme have been reported .
Hematologic System - Hemolytic anemia , agranulocytosis , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity - Anaphylaxis ( e . g . , angioedema , bronchospasm , malaise possibly culminating in shock ) , urticaria .
Kidney - Interstitial nephritis , transient elevations of creatinine .
Liver - Hepatitis , jaundice , cholestasis , elevations of gamma GT and bilirubin .
Cephalosporin Class Labeling In addition to the adverse reactions listed above which have been observed in patients treated with cefotaxime sodium , the following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported for cephalosporin class antibiotics : allergic reactions , hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis , aplastic anemia , hemorrhage , and false - positive test for urinary glucose .
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures , particularly in patients with renal impairment when the dosage was not reduced .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and OVERDOSAGE .
If seizures associated with drug therapy occur , the drug should be discontinued . Anticonvulsant therapy can be given if clinically indicated .
OVERDOSAGE The acute toxicity of cefotaxime was evaluated in neonatal and adult mice and rats .
Significant mortality was seen at parenteral doses in excess of 6000 mg / kg / day in all groups .
Common toxic signs in animals that died were a decrease in spontaneous activity , tonic and clonic convulsions , dyspnea , hypothermia , and cyanosis .
Cefotaxime sodium overdosage has occurred in patients .
Most cases have shown no overt toxicity .
The most frequent reactions were elevations of BUN and creatinine .
There is a risk of reversible encephalopathy in cases of administration of high doses of beta - lactam antibiotics including cefotaxime .
No specific antidote exists .
Patients who receive an acute overdosage should be carefully observed and given supportive treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults Dosage and route of administration should be determined by susceptibility of the causative organisms , severity of the infection , and the condition of the patient ( see table for dosage guideline ) .
Cefotaxime for injection may be administered IM or IV after reconstitution .
The maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams .
GUIDELINES FOR DOSAGE OF CEFOTAXIME FOR INJECTION Type of Infection Daily Dose grams ) Frequency and Route Gonococcal urethritis / cervicitis in males and females Rectal gonorrhea in females Rectal gonorrhea in males Uncomplicated infections Moderate to severe infections Infections commonly needing antibiotics in higher dosage ( e . g . , septicemia ) Life - threatening infections 0 . 5 0 . 5 1 2 3 - 6 6 - 8 up to 12 0 . 5 gram IM ( single dose ) 0 . 5 gram IM ( single dose ) 1 gram IM ( single dose ) 1 gram every 12 hours IM or IV 1 - 2 grams every 8 hours IM or IV 2 grams every 6 - 8 hours IV 2 grams every 4 hours IV If C . trachomatis is a suspected pathogen , appropriate anti - chlamydial coverage should be added , because cefotaxime sodium has no activity against this organism .
To prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , the recommended dose is a single 1 gram IM or IV administered 30 to 90 minutes prior to start of surgery .
Cesarean Section Patients The first dose of 1 gram is administered intravenously as soon as the umbilical cord is clamped .
The second and third doses should be given as 1 gram intravenously or intramuscularly at 6 and 12 hours after the first dose .
Neonates , Infants , and Children The following dosage schedule is recommended : Neonates ( birth to 1 month ) : 0 - 1 week of age 50 mg / kg per dose every 12 hours IV 1 - 4 weeks of age 50 mg / kg per dose every 8 hours IV It is not necessary to differentiate between premature and normal - gestational age infants .
Infants and Children ( 1 month to 12 years ) : For body weights less than 50 kg , the recommended daily dose is 50 to 180 mg / kg IM or IV body weight divided into four to six equal doses .
The higher dosages should be used for more severe or serious infections , including meningitis .
For body weights 50 kg or more , the usual adult dosage should be used ; the maximum daily dosage should not exceed 12 grams .
Geriatric Use This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
( See PRECAUTIONS , General and PRECAUTIONS , Geriatric Use . )
Impaired Renal Function see PRECAUTIONS , General .
NOTE : As with antibiotic therapy in general , administration of Cefotaxime for injection should be continued for a minimum of 48 to 72 hours after the patient defervesces or after evidence of bacterial eradication has been obtained ; a minimum of 10 days of treatment is recommended for infections caused by Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci in order to guard against the risk of rheumatic fever or glomerulonephritis ; frequent bacteriologic and clinical appraisal is necessary during therapy of chronic urinary tract infection and may be required for several months after therapy has been completed ; persistent infections may require treatment of several weeks and doses smaller than those indicated above should not be used .
Preparation of Cefotaxime for injection Sterile Cefotaxime for injection for IM or IV administration should be reconstituted as follows : Strength Diluent ( mL ) Withdrawable Volume ( mL ) Approximate Concentration ( mg / mL ) 500 mg vial ( IM ) 1 g vial ( IM ) 2 g vial ( IM ) 500 mg vial ( IV ) 1 g vial ( IV ) 2 g vial ( IV ) 2 3 5 10 10 10 2 . 2 3 . 4 6 10 . 2 10 . 4 11 230 300 330 50 95 180 Shake to dissolve ; inspect for particulate matter and discoloration prior to use .
Solutions of Cefotaxime for injection range from very pale yellow to light amber , depending on concentration , diluent used , and length and condition of storage .
For intramuscular use : Reconstitute VIALS with Sterile Water for Injection or Bacteriostatic Water for Injection as described above .
For intravenous use : Reconstitute VIALS with at least 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection .
NOTE : Solutions of Cefotaxime for injection must not be admixed with aminoglycoside solutions .
If Cefotaxime for injection and aminoglycosides are to be administered to the same patient , they must be administered separately and not as mixed injection .
A SOLUTION OF 1 G CEFOTAXIME FOR INJECTION IN 14 ML OF STERILE WATER FOR INJECTION IS ISOTONIC .
IM Administration : As with all IM preparations , Cefotaxime for injection should be injected well within the body of a relatively large muscle such as the upper outer quadrant of the buttock ( i . e . , gluteus maximus ) ; aspiration is necessary to avoid inadvertent injection into a blood vessel .
Individual IM doses of 2 grams may be given if the dose is divided and is administered in different intramuscular sites .
IV Administration : The IV route is preferable for patients with bacteremia , bacterial septicemia , peritonitis , meningitis , or other severe or life - threatening infections , or for patients who may be poor risks because of lowered resistance resulting from such debilitating conditions as malnutrition , trauma , surgery , diabetes , heart failure , or malignancy , particularly if shock is present or impending .
For intermittent IV administration , a solution containing 1 gram or 2 grams in 10 mL of Sterile Water for Injection can be injected over a period of three to five minutes .
Cefotaxime should not be administered over a period of less than three minutes .
( See WARNINGS ) .
With an infusion system , it may also be given over a longer period of time through the tubing system by which the patient may be receiving other IV solutions .
However , during infusion of the solution containing Cefotaxime for injection , it is advisable to discontinue temporarily the administration of other solutions at the same site .
For the administration of higher doses by continuous IV infusion , a solution cefotaxime may be added to IV bottles containing the solutions discussed below .
Compatibility and Stability Solutions of Cefotaxime for injection reconstituted as described above ( Preparation of Cefotaxime for injection ) remain chemically stable ( potency remains above 90 % ) as follows when stored in original containers and disposable plastic syringes : Strength Reconstituted Concentration mg / mL Stability at or below 220 C Stability under Refrigeration ( at or below 50 C ) Original Containers Plastic Syringes 500 mg vial IM 1 g vial IM 2 g vial IM 500 mg vial IV 1 g vial IV 2 g vial IV 230 300 330 50 95 180 12 hours 12 hours 12 hours 24 hours 24 hours 12 hours 7 days 7 days 7 days 7 days 7 days 7 days 5 days 5 days 5 days 5 days 5 days 5 days Reconstituted solutions stored in original containers and plastic syringes remain stable for 13 weeks frozen .
Reconstituted solutions may be further diluted up to 1000 mL with the following solutions and maintain satisfactory potency for 24 hours at or below 220 C , and at least 5 days under refrigeration ( at or below 50 C ) : 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 or 10 % Dextrose Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection ; Lactated Ringer ' s Solution ; Sodium Lactate Injection ( M / 6 ) ; 10 % Invert Sugar Injection , 8 . 5 % TRAVASOL ® ( Amino Acid ) Injection without Electrolytes .
NOTE : Cefotaxime for injection solutions exhibit maximum stability in the pH 5 - 7 range .
Solutions of Cefotaxime for injection should not be prepared with diluents having a pH above 7 . 5 , such as Sodium Bicarbonate Injection .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
HOW SUPPLIED Sterile Cefotaxime for injection , USP is a dry off - white to pale yellow crystalline powder supplied in vials containing cefotaxime sodium as follows : 500 mg cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) in vial .
Package of 1 NDC 64679 - 947 - 01 Package of 10 NDC 64679 - 947 - 02 1 g cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) in vial .
Package of 1 NDC 64679 - 986 - 01 Package of 10 NDC 64679 - 986 - 02 Package of 25 NDC 64679 - 986 - 03 Package of 50 NDC 64679 - 986 - 04 2 g cefotaxime ( free acid equivalent ) in vial .
Package of 1 NDC 64679 - 948 - 01 Package of 10 NDC 64679 - 948 - 02 NOTE : Cefotaxime for injection , USP in the dry state , store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
The dry material as well as solutions tend to darken depending on storage conditions and should be protected from elevated temperatures and excessive light .
REFERENCES • Richmond , M . H . and Sykes R . B . : The ß - Lactamases of Gram - Negative Bacteria and their Possible Physiological Role , Advances in Microbial Physiology 9 : 31 - 88 , 1973 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically - Third Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M7 - A3 , Vol .
13 , No . 25 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , December , 1993 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Performance Standard for Antimicrobial Disk Susceptibility Tests - Fifth Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M2 - A5 , Vol .
13 , No . 24 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , December , 1993 .
• National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards .
Methods for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing of Anaerobic Bacteria - Third Edition .
Approved Standard NCCLS Document M11 - A3 , NCCLS , Villanova , PA , December , 1993 .
• Cockcroft , D . W . and Gault , M . H . : Prediction of Creatinine Clearance from Serum Creatinine , Nephron 16 : 31 - 41 , 1976 .
Manufactured by : Wockhardt Limited Mumbai , India Distributed by : Wockhardt USA LLC .
20 Waterview Blvd .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA .
Rev . 241109 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
