DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in Ondansetron Tablets , USP is ondansetron hydrochloride ( HCl ) as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
Ondansetron HCl dihydrate is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline .
Each 4 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Each 8 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide , triacetin , and iron oxide yellow ( 8 mg tablet only ) .
Product meets USP Drug Release Test 3 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY AND CLINICAL TRIALS ALL OF THIS INFORMATION IS LOCATED AT THE MANUFACTURER ' S FDA LABEL SITE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = 834bc56a - 657 d - 4733 - 9a60 - 47040cb5c7bf INDICATIONS & USAGE 1 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m2 .
2 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
3 .
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
4 .
Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , ondansetron tablets , USP are recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron .
Ondansetron tablets , USP are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONS General Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
Drug Interactions Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( see ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron , concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated .
In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol .
Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover studying 76 patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
Use in Surgical Patients The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Ondansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Little information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see sections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron , the active ingredient of ondansetron tablets , USP .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron tablets , USP have been unclear in many cases .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting The adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m ) .
PLEASE SEE THE COMPLETE ADVERSE REACTION INFORMATION HERE : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / drugInfo . cfm ? setid = 834bc56a - 657 d - 4733 - 9a60 - 47040cb5c7bf OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets , USP .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron tablets , USP is 24 mg given as three 8 - mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
One 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is one 4 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP or one 4 - mg given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
One 4 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen The recommended oral dosage is one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP given 3 times a day .
For total body irradiation , one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
, one 8 - mg ondansetron tablet , USP should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron tablet , USP in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 - mg ondansetron tablets , USP 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
There is no experience with the use of ondansetron tablets , USP in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Renal Function The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC : 51655 - 803 - 27 MFG : 63304 - 459 - 30 ONDANSETRON 8 MG 12 TABLETS RX ONLY Lot # Exp .
Date : Each film coated tablet contains 10 mg ondansetron hydrochloride , USP equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Dosage : See prescriber ' s instructions .
Store at 68 - 77 degrees F . Keep out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . goc / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Mfg by Natco Pharma Ltd Kothur 509 228 AP India Mfg for Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals , Jacksonville , FL 32257 Lot # Repackaged by Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
