SPL UNCLASSIFIED FOR IM , IV OR SC USE RX only DESCRIPTION Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP is a sterile solution of atropine sulfate in Water for Injection .
Each mL contains Atropine Sulfate 0 . 4 mg ; Sodium Chloride 9 mg ; Benzyl Alcohol 9 mg ; Water for Injection qs ; pH may be adjusted with Sulfuric Acid if necessary .
pH 3 . 0 - 6 . 5 .
Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP may be given intramuscularly , intravenously or subcutaneously .
Atropine is a white crystalline alkaloid which may be extracted from belladonna root or may be produced synthetically .
It is used as atropine sulfate because this compound has much greater solubility .
Atropine sulfate is an anticholinergic drug .
The empirical formula of atropine sulfate is ( C17H23NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 • H2O .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most important therapeutic action of atropine is the inhibition of smooth muscle and glands innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves .
It also has central nervous system activity , which may be stimulating or depressing depending upon the dose .
Following the administration of usual clinical doses , atropine produces stimulation of the medulla and higher cerebral centers .
This effect is manifested by mild central vagal excitation and moderate respiratory stimulation .
Atropine sulfate also acts peripherally as a competitive antagonist of the muscarinic actions of acetylcholine .
It does not prevent the release of acetylcholine but antagonizes the effect of acetylcholine on the effector cells .
These actions include vasodilation , drying of the mouth , an increase in the pulse rate , inhibition of contractions of the gastrointestinal tract , ureter , and bladder , and reduction of salivary , bronchial , gastric and sweat gland secretions .
Following clinical and larger doses , atropine sulfate causes dilation of the pupils and paralysis of accommodation and , in narrow - angle glaucoma , can increase intraocular pressure .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Atropine sulfate is given parenterally as a preanesthetic medication to decrease salivation and bronchial secretions .
It is useful in pylorospasm and other spastic conditions of the gastrointestinal tract .
For ureteral and biliary colic , atropine sulfate given with morphine may be indicated .
Atropine sulfate is indicated for relaxation of the upper gastrointestinal tract and colon during hypotonic radiography .
Atropine is used as an antidote for pilocarpine , physostigmine , isoflurophate , choline esters , certain species of aminata and in poisoning by the organic phosphate cholinesterase inhibitors found in certain insecticides and by chemical warfare “ nerve gases ” .
Large doses relieve the muscarine - like symptoms and some of the central nervous system manifestations .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Conditions at which inhibition of postganglionic cholinergic nerves are undesirable , such as glaucoma and tachycardia .
Also contraindicated in asthma , because the parenteral dose which might relieve asthma would have an excessive drying effect upon mucous plugs in the bronchi .
Prostatic hypertrophy , while not a contraindication , requires special attention to signs of urinary retention .
WARNINGS Atropine is a highly potent drug and due care is essential to avoid overdosage , especially with intravenous administration .
Pediatric populations are more susceptible than adults to the toxic effects of anticholinergic agents .
Atropine I . V . decreased the rate of mexiletine absorption without altering the relative oral bioavailability ; this delay in mexiletine absorption was reversed by the combination of atropine and intravenous metoclopramide during pretreatment for anesthesia .
Atropine is not removed by dialysis .
This drug is effective in very low dosage and overdose may cause permanent damage or death , especially in children .
This product contains Benzyl Alcohol which has been associated with a fatal gasping syndrome in infants and neonates .
PRECAUTIONS General Doses of 0 . 5 to 1 mg atropine are mildly stimulating to the CNS .
Larger doses may produce mental disturbances ; still larger doses are depressing .
Death from atropine poisoning , though rare , is usually due to paralysis of the medullary centers .
Information for Patients Atropine causes dryness of the mouth , and when used with other drugs that can cause dryness of the mouth , the effect is additive .
Patients receiving chronic treatment can develop blurred vision , and they should not be involved in activities that require good and clear vision .
Drug Interactions Atropine , by slowing gastric emptying and gastrointestinal mobility , may interfere with the absorption of other medications .
The effect of atropine on dryness of the mouth may be increased if it is given with other drugs that have anticholinergic action .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with atropine sulfate .
It is also not known whether atropine sulfate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Atropine sulfate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when atropine sulfate is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Individual tolerance varies greatly , but these systemic doses are likely to produce the following effects : [ MULTIMEDIA ] A scarlatiniform rash may occur .
Atropine may produce fever , particularly in children , through inhibition of heat loss by evaporation .
Although large doses of atropine may cause an alarming condition , recovery is usual .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] OVERDOSAGE Toxic doses from atropine are not uncommon , especially in children .
Symptoms The principle manifestations of poisoning with atropine are delirium , tachycardia and fever .
Treatment In the treatment of atropine poisoning , respiratory assistance and symptomatic support are indicated .
Physostigmine salicylate , 1 to 5 mL of a dilution containing 1 mg per 5 mL of saline , should be administered intravenously .
Administer the smaller dose in children and administer in not less than 2 minutes .
Monitor with ECG .
Medication can be repeated every 5 minutes for a total dose of 2 mg in children and every 30 minutes for a total dose of 6 mg in adults .
The fatal dose of atropine in children may be as low as 10 mg .
In an adult , recovery after 1 , 000 mg of atropine sulfate has been reported .
Death is usually due to paralysis of the medullary centers .
The fatality rate is less than 1 % .
If the patient survives 24 hours , they will probably recover .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION The usual dose of atropine sulfate is 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg .
Suggested dosages for pediatric patients are as follows : 7 - 16 lbs .
– 0 . 1 mg 40 - 65 lbs .
– 0 . 3 mg 17 - 24 lbs .
– 0 . 15 mg 65 - 90 lbs .
– 0 . 4 mg 24 - 40 lbs .
– 0 . 2 mg Over 90 lbs .
– 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg Table of Dosage Equivalents [ MULTIMEDIA ] These doses may be exceeded in certain cases .
For hypotonic radiography of the gastrointestinal tract , the usual adult dose is 1 mg intramuscularly .
Adults suspected of contact with organic phosporous insecticides of the parathion type should be given atropine sulfate 0 . 8 mg intramuscularly .
If an atropine effect is not apparent within 30 minutes or if definite symptoms of the poisoning occur ( nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , pupillary constriction , pulmonary edema , fasciculations of eyelids and tongue , jerky ocular movements and excessive sweating , salivation and bronchial secretion ) , atropine sulfate 2 mg should be given intramuscularly at hourly intervals until signs of atropinization are observed .
Up to 2 or 3 times of this dose ( 4 to 6 mg ) may be required in severe cases .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] HOW SUPPLIED ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP is supplied in the following dosage forms : NDC 51662 - 1311 - 1 ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 8 mg / 20 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) 20 mL VIAL NDC 51662 - 1311 - 2 - 1 Pouch of ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 8 mg / 20 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) 20 mL VIAL NDC 51662 - 1311 - 3 - Case of 25 pouches of ATROPINE SULFATE INJECTION , USP 8 mg / 20 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) 20 mL VIAL HF Acquisition Co LLC , DBA HealthFirst Mukilteo , WA 98275 Also supplied in the following manufacture supplied dosage forms Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP is available in the following : 0 . 4 mg / mL 20 mL multiple dose vial packaged in 10 s ( NDC 0641 - 6006 - 10 ) Use only if solution is clear and seal intact .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For Product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
Manufactured by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] WEST - WARD PHARMACEUTICALS Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Revised June 2011 462 - 416 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , VIAL NDC 0641 - 6006 - 01 Atropine Sulfate Injection , USP 8 mg / 20 mL ( 0 . 4 mg / mL ) 20 mL Multiple Dose Vial NDC 0641 - 6006 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL , NDC 51662 - 1311 - 1 SERIALIZED VIAL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY LABEL - NDC 51662 - 1311 - 2 SERIALIZED POUCH LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY LABEL - NDC 51662 - 1311 - 3 SERIALIZED CASE LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY LABEL - NDC 51662 - 1311 - 3 SERIALIZED RFID LABEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
