1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is indicated for the treatment of hyperkalemia .
Limitation of Use : Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension should not be used as an emergency treatment for life - threatening hyperkalemia because of its delayed onset of action [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is indicated for the treatment of hyperkalemia ( 1 ) .
Limitation of Use : Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension should not be used as an emergency treatment for life - threatening hyperkalemia because of its delayed onset of action ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Oral : The average total daily adult dose of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is 15 g to 60 g , administered as a 15 - g dose ( four level teaspoons ) , one to four times daily ( 2 . 1 ) .
Rectal : The average adult dose is 30 g to 50 g every six hours ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 General Information Administer Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after other oral medications .
Patients with gastroparesis may require a 6 hour separation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) and Drug Interaction ( 7 ) ] 2 . 2 Recommended Dosage The intensity and duration of therapy depend upon the severity and resistance of hyperkalemia .
Oral The average total daily adult dose of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is 15 g to 60 g , administered as a 15 - g dose ( four level teaspoons ) , one to four times daily .
Rectal The average adult dose is 30 g to 50 g every six hours .
2 . 3 Preparation and Administration Prepare suspension fresh and use within 24 hours .
Do not heat Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension as it could alter the exchange properties of the resin .
One level teaspoon contains approximately 3 . 5 g of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension and 15 mEq of sodium .
Oral Suspension Suspend each dose in a small quantity of water or syrup , approximately 3 to 4 mL of liquid per gram of resin .
Administer with patient in an upright position [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Enema After an initial cleansing enema , insert a soft , large size ( French 28 ) rubber tube into the rectum for a distance of about 20 cm , with the tip well into the sigmoid colon , and tape in place .
Administer as a warm ( body temperature ) emulsion in 100 mL of aqueous vehicle and flush with 50 to 100 ml of fluid .
A somewhat thicker suspension may be used , but do not form a paste .
Agitate the emulsion gently during administration .
The resin should be retained for as long as possible and follow by a cleansing enema with a nonsodium containing solution .
Ensure an adequate volume of cleansing solution ( up to 2 liters ) is utilized .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is a cream to light brown , finely ground powder and is available in 453 . 6 g jars .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is available as a cream to light brown , finely ground powder ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions : ● Hypersensitivity to polystyrene sulfonate resins ● Obstructive bowel disease ● Neonates with reduced gut motility ● Hypersensitivity to polystyrene sulfonate resins ( 4 ) ● Obstructive bowel disease ( 4 ) ● Neonates with reduced gut motility ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Intestinal Necrosis : cases of intestinal necrosis and other serious gastrointestinal events have been reported ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Electrolyte Disturbances : Severe hypokalemia can occur .
( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Fluid overload in patient sensitive to high sodium intake : Monitor patients who are sensitive to sodium intake for signs of fluid overload .
( 5 . 3 ) .
• • Risk of aspiration : Acute bronchitis or bronchopneumonia caused by inhalation of sodium polystyrene sulfonate particles has been reported .
( 5 . 4 ) .
5 . 1 Intestinal Necrosis Cases of intestinal necrosis , some fatal , and other serious gastrointestinal adverse events ( bleeding , ischemic colitis , perforation ) have been reported in association with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension use .
The majority of these cases reported the concomitant use of sorbitol .
Risk factors for gastrointestinal adverse events were present in many of the cases including prematurity , history of intestinal disease or surgery , hypovolemia , and renal insufficiency and failure .
Concomitant administration of sorbitol is not recommended .
● Use only in patients who have normal bowel function .
Avoid use in patients who have not had a bowel movement post - surgery .
● Avoid use in patients who are at risk for developing constipation or impaction ( including those with history of impaction , chronic constipation , inflammatory bowel disease , ischemic colitis , vascular intestinal atherosclerosis , previous bowel resection , or bowel obstruction ) .
Discontinue use in patients who develop constipation .
5 . 2 Electrolyte Disturbances Monitor serum potassium during therapy because severe hypokalemia may occur .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is not totally selective for potassium , and small amounts of other cations such as magnesium and calcium can also be lost during treatment .
Monitor calcium and magnesium in patients receiving Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension .
5 . 3 Fluid Overload in Patients Sensitive to High Sodium Intake Each 15 g dose of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension contains 1500 mg ( 60 mEq ) of sodium .
Monitor patients who are sensitive to sodium intake ( heart failure , hypertension , edema ) for signs of fluid overload .
Adjustment of other sources of sodium may be required .
5 . 4 Risk of Aspiration Cases of acute bronchitis or bronchopneumonia caused by inhalation of sodium polystyrene sulfonate particles have been reported .
Patients with impaired gag reflex , altered level of consciousness , or patients prone to regurgitation may be at increased risk .
Administer Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension with the patient in an upright position .
5 . 5 Binding to Other Orally Administered Medications Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension may bind orally administered medications , which could decrease their gastrointestinal absorption and lead to reduced efficacy .
Administer other oral medications at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension .
Patients with gastroparesis may require a 6 hour separation .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : ● Intestinal Necrosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] ● Electrolyte Disturbances [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) ] ● Aspiration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , fecal impaction , gastrointestinal concretions ( bezoars ) , ischemic colitis , nausea , ulcerations , vomiting , gastric irritation , intestinal obstruction ( due to concentration of aluminium hydroxide ) Metabolic : systemic alkalosis Adverse reactions reported include : anorexia , constipation , diarrhea , fecal impaction , gastrointestinal concretions ( bezoars ) , ischemic colitis , nausea , vomiting ( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Blu Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 264 - 0258 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Take other orally administered drugs at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension ( 7 . 1 ) .
• • Cation - Donating Antacids : may reduce the resin ’ s potassium exchange capability and increase risk of systemic alkalosis ( 7 . 2 ) .
• • Sorbitol : Concomitant use may contribute to the risk of intestinal necrosis and is not recommended ( 7 . 3 ) .
7 . 1 General Interactions No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted in humans .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension has the potential to bind other drugs .
In in vitro binding studies , Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension was shown to significantly bind the oral medications ( n = 6 ) that were tested .
Decreased absorption of lithium and thyroxine have also been reported with co - administration of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension .
Binding of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension to other oral medications could cause decreased gastrointestinal absorption and loss of efficacy when taken close to the time Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is administered .
Administer Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension at least 3 hours before or 3 hours after other oral medications .
Patients with gastroparesis may require a 6 hour separation .
Monitor for clinical response and / or blood levels where possible .
7 . 2 Cation - Donating Antacids The simultaneous oral administration of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension with nonabsorbable cation - donating antacids and laxatives may reduce the resin ' s potassium exchange capability and increase the risk of systemic alkalosis 7 . 3 Sorbitol Sorbitol may contribute to the risk of intestinal necrosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] and concomitant use is not recommended .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is not absorbed systemically following oral or rectal administration and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal risk .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Risk Summary Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is not absorbed systemically by the mother , so breastfeeding is not expected to result in risk to the infant .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Studies of safety and efficacy have not been conducted in pediatric patients .
In pediatric patients , as in adults , Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is expected to bind potassium at the practical exchange ratio of 1 mEq potassium per 1 gram of resin .
In neonates , Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension should not be given by the oral route .
In both children and neonates , excessive dosage or inadequate dilution could result in impaction of the resin .
Premature infants or low birth weight infants may have an increased risk for gastrointestinal adverse effects with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage may result in electrolyte disturbances including hypokalemia , hypocalcemia , and hypomagnesemia .
Appropriate measures should be taken to correct serum electrolytes ( potassium , calcium , magnesium ) , and the resin should be removed from the alimentary tract by appropriate use of laxatives or enemas .
11 DESCRIPTION Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is a benzene , diethenyl - polymer , with ethenylbenzene , sulfonated , sodium salt and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The drug is a cream to light brown finely ground , powdered form of sodium polystyrene sulfonate , a cation - exchange resin prepared in the sodium phase with an in vitro exchange capacity of approximately 3 . 1 mEq ( in vivo approximately 1 mEq ) of potassium per gram .
The sodium content is approximately 100 mg ( 4 . 1 mEq ) per gram of the drug .
It can be administered orally or rectally as an enema .
One gram of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension contains 4 . 1 mEq of sodium .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is a non - absorbed , cation exchange polymer that contains a sodium counterion .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension increases fecal potassium excretion through binding of potassium in the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract .
Binding of potassium reduces the concentration of free potassium in the gastrointestinal lumen , resulting in a reduction of serum potassium levels .
The practical exchange ratio is 1 mEq K per 1 gram of resin .
As the resin passes along the intestine or is retained in the colon after administration by enema , the sodium ions are partially released and are replaced by potassium ions .
This action occurs primarily in the large intestine , which excretes potassium ions to a greater degree than does the small intestine .
The efficiency of this process is limited and unpredictably variable .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics The effective lowering of serum potassium with Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension may take hours to days .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The in vivo efficiency of sodium - potassium exchange resins is approximately 33 percent ; hence , about one third of the resin ' s actual sodium content is delivered to the body .
Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is not absorbed systemically .
Drug Interactions In vitro binding studies showed that Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension bound significantly to the following tested drugs - warfarin , metoprolol , phenytoin , furosemide , amlodipine and amoxicillin .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies have not been performed .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension is available as a cream to light brown , finely ground powder in jars of 1 pound ( 453 . 6 g ) .
NDC 24658 - 760 - 16 .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Drug Interactions Advise patients who are taking other oral medication to separate the dosing of Sodium Polystyrene Sulfonate Powder , for Suspension by at least 3 hours ( before or after ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] Rx Only Distributed by : PuraCap Laboratories , LLC DBA Blu Pharmaceuticals Laurelton , NY 114113 Rev . 10 - 2019 - 00 MF013BLUREV10 / 19 OE2610 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 453 . 6 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
