Active Ingredient Ethyl Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Wipes used on hands and skin to reduce bacteria Warnings For external use only , do not ingest .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat , flame , or direct sunlight .
Do not eat , drink , or smoke during use .
If irritation or redness occurs and persists for longer than 72 hours , consult a medical professional .
Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds • near eyes When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop Use Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs and persists for longer than 72 hours .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Supervise use by children under the age of 6 .
Directions • Peel back open label slowly • Pull out one wipe at a time • Reseal packaging tightly • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry • Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid ingestion Storage • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Store away from direct sunlight • Store tightly closed in its original packaging • Keep away from food , drinks , and animal feed • Store in places unaccessible to children Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Inactive Ingredients lemon oil - distilled , peg - 7 glyceryl cocoate , edetic acid , anhydrous citric acid , water , polysorbate 20 , cocamidopropyl betaine , dexpanthenol , glycerin Changed the pre - filled out section for " Use " Changed the pre - filled out section for " Directions " Package Label - Principal Display Panel 120 Count Canister NDC : 90083 - 211 - 12 200 Count Canister NDC : 90083 - 211 - 20 500 Count Canister NDC : 90083 - 211 - 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
