DESCRIPTION : NeuLumEX is a barium sulfate suspension 0 . 1 % w / v , 0 . 1 % w / w for oral administration .
Each 100 mL contains 0 . 1 g barium sulfate .
Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and therefore , acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
The active ingredient is barium sulfate and its structural formula is BaSO4 .
Barium sulfate occurs as a fine , white , odorless , tasteless , bulky powder which is free from grittiness .
Its aqueous suspensions are neutral to litmus .
It is practically insoluble in water , solutions of acids and alkalies , and organic solvents .
Inactive Ingredients : citric acid , natural gum , benzoic acid , sodium citrate , natural and artificial blueberry flavor , potassium sorbate , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium benzoate , and sorbitol .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Barium sulfate , due to its high molecular density is opaque to x - rays and , therefore , acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
Barium sulfate is biologically inert and , therefore , is not absorbed or metabolized by the body , and is eliminated from the GI tract unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For use in Computed Tomography to opacify the GI tract .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : This product should not be used in patients with known or suspected gastrointestinal perforation or hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any component of this barium sulfate formulation .
WARNINGS : Rarely , severe allergic reactions of an anaphylactoid nature , have been reported following administration of barium sulfate contrast agents .
Appropriately trained personnel and facilities should be available for emergency treatment of severe reactions and should remain available for at least 30 to 60 minutes following administration , since delayed reactions can occur .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque contrast agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the requisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , as evidenced by hay fever and eczema , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent , warrant special attention .
Caution should be exercised with the use of radiopaque media in severely debilitated patients and in those with marked hypertension or advanced cardiac disease .
Ingestion of barium is not recommended in patients with a history of food aspiration .
If barium studies are required in these patients or in patients in whom integrity of the swallowing mechanism is unknown , proceed with caution .
If barium is aspirated into the larynx , further administration should be immediately discontinued .
Information for Patients : Before administration of this product , patients receiving barium sulfate diagnostic agents should be instructed to : • Inform their physician if they are pregnant .
• Inform their physician if they are allergic to any drugs or food , or if they have had any prior reactions to barium sulfate products or other contrast agents used in x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
• Inform their physician about any other medications they are currently taking .
• Seek immediate medical attention if they experience an allergic reaction after using this product .
Drug Interactions : The presence of barium sulfate formulations in the GI tract may alter the absorption of therapeutic agents taken concomitantly .
In order to minimize any potential change in absorption , the separate administration of barium sulfate from that of other agents should be considered .
Usage in Pregnancy : Radiation is known to cause harm to the unborn fetus exposed in utero .
Therefore , radiographic procedures should only be used when , in the judgement of the physician , its use is deemed essential to the welfare of the pregnant patient .
Nursing Mothers : Barium sulfate products may be used during lactation .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions , such as nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping , accompanying the use of barium sulfate formulations are infrequent and usually mild .
Severe reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) and fatalities ( approximately 1 in 10 , 000 , 000 ) have occurred .
Procedural complications are rare , but may include aspiration pneumonitis , granuloma formation , intravasation , embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes , and fatalities .
ALLERGIC REACTIONS : Due to the increased likelihood of allergic reactions in atopic patients , it is important that a complete history of known and suspected allergies as well as allergic - like symptoms , e . g . , rhinitis , bronchial asthma , eczema and urticaria , be obtained prior to any medical procedure utilizing these products .
A mild allergic reaction would most likely include generalized pruritus , erythema or urticaria ( approximately 1 in 250 , 000 ) .
Such reactions will generally respond to an antihistamine such as 50 mg of diphenhydramine or its equivalent .
In the rarer , more serious reactions ( approximately 1 in 1 , 000 , 000 ) laryngeal edema , bronchospasm or hypotension could develop .
Severe reactions which may require emergency measures are often characterized by peripheral vasodilation , hypotension , reflex tachycardia , dyspnea , agitation , confusion and cyanosis , progressing to unconsciousness .
Treatment should be initiated immediately with 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 cc of 1 : 1000 epinephrine subcutaneously .
If bronchospasm predominates , 0 . 25 to 0 . 50 grams of intravenous aminophylline should be given slowly .
Appropriate vasopressors might be required .
Adrenocorticosteroids , even if given intravenously , exert no significant effect on the acute allergic reactions for a few hours .
The administration of these agents should not be regarded as emergency measures for the treatment of allergic reactions .
Apprehensive patients may develop weakness , pallor , tinnitus , diaphoresis and bradycardia following the administration of any diagnostic agent .
Such reactions are usually non - allergic in nature and are best treated by having the patient lie flat for an additional 10 to 30 minutes under observation .
OVERDOSAGE : On rare occasions following repeated administration , severe stomach cramps , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation may occur .
These indicated responses can be present in both fluoroscopic and CT procedures .
These are transitory in nature and are not considered serious .
Symptoms may be treated according to currently accepted standards of medical care .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : The volume of the CT barium sulfate suspension to be administered will depend on the degree and extent of contrast required in the area ( s ) under examination and on the technique employed .
For Oral Administration : GI Tract Marking : The patient should begin drinking NeuLumEX approximately 20 – 30 minutes prior to the scheduled procedure .
It is recommended that the patient consume multiple bottles , about 900 mL to 1 , 350 mL total volume prior to the exam or use as directed by physician .
For improved gastric marking have patient consume the final 200 mL immediately prior to scan .
Bowel marking is consistent due to the uniformity of the 0 . 1 % concentration of BaSO4 .
Bowel lumen marking can be improved by increasing the volume of NeuLumEX consumed ( see below ) .
Other dosing regimens may be followed as applicable .
In patients where marking is problematic , such as obesity and delayed transit , improved marking may be possible by increasing the total volume of NeuLumEX administered up to 1 , 800 mL or four ( 4 ) bottles .
STORAGE : USP controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
HOW SUPPLIED : NeuLumEX is supplied in the following quantity : 450 mL bottles , NDC 32909 - 927 - 03 Rx Only SHAKE WELL PRIOR TO USE Manufactured by E - Z - EM Canada Inc for Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 Tel : 1 - 516 - 333 - 8230 1 - 800 - 544 - 4624 rev . 02 / 20 CL110501 NeuLumEx Carton NDC 32909 - 927 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] NeuLumEx Bottle NDC 32909 - 927 - 03 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
