Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • • for effective relief of itching , cracking , burning , scaling and discomfort Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • • avoid contact with the eyes • • use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
• • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • irritation occurs • • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • • supervise children in the use of this product • • for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • • for athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • • if condition persists longer , ask a doctor • • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • • in case of clogging , clean nozzle with a pin Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , isobutane , isopropyl myristate , propylene carbonate , sorbitan monooleate , stearalkonium hectorite , talc Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Principal Display Panel Compare to Lotrimin ® active ingredient Athlete ’ s Foot Powder Spray MICONAZOLE NITRATE 2 % / ANTIFUNGAL MEDICATED ANTIFUNGAL Clinically proven to cure most athlete ’ s foot Relieves itching , burning , scaling , & cracking NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
