Active ingredients Octinoxate 6 . 0 % Zinc oxide 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rise of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin when using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or highter and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , glycerin , isohexadecane , sodium acrylate / sodium acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer , polysorbate 80 , laureth - 7 , cyclopentasiloxane , cyclohexasiloxane , PEG / PPG - 20 / 20 dimethicone , steareth - 21 , stearyl alcohol , Gossypium Herbaceum ( cotton ) seed oil , behenyl alcohol , cetyl alcohol , DMDM hydantoin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , fragrance , tocopheryl acetate , disodium EDTA , steareth - 2 , oleth - 3 phosphate , ascorbic acid , panthenol When used as directed , Beauty Hydrating Lotion helps provide your skin with broad spectrum protection against prematue skin damage from both UVA and UVB rays to help your skin stay younger looking .
ALL DAY MOISTURE - Formulated with antioxidant Vitamin E plus C and nourishihg beauty moisture that absorbs quickly into skin and lasts all day to help your skin stay soft , smooth and beautiful .
Light , Non - Greasy Formula Dermatologist Tested Non - Comedogenic Wo n't Clog Pores * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Olay Complete All Day Moisturizer with sunscreen Meijer Beauty Hydrating Lotion broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC . , 2929 WALKER AVE NW GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com principal display panel Meijer Beauty Hydrating Lotion complete UVA and UVB protection antioxidant vitamin E plus C broad spectrum SPF 15 sunscreen Compare to Olay Complete All Day Moisturizer with sunscreen 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
