This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Isopropyl Alcohol ( 75 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
See ingreditents list for accurate list .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethanol Alcohol 75 % v / v .
Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use • For hand washing to decrease bacteria on the skin • Recommended for repeated use Warnings • For external use only .
• Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Do not use • Do not use in the eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• Do not use on children less than 2 months of age .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Irritation and rednessdevelop and persist for more than 72 hours .
• Swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control centerright away .
Keep out of reach of children .
Children must be supervised in use of this product .
Directions • Place enough product in your palm to cover hands and rub hands together until dry .
• Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product .
Other information • Store below 110 F ( 43 C ) • May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Aloe , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel 500 ml .
NDC : 80527 - 251 - 50 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
