This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• TRIETHANOLAMINE BENZOATE ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Carbomer 940 0 . 5 % • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 3 mL .......... Antimicrobial Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use To decrease bacteria on the skin that could cause disease , Recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only : hands Do not drink Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds Keep out of eyes in case of contact with eyes , flush thoroughly with water , Avoid contact with broken skin , Do not inhale or ingest .
Skin irritation develops .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Right away .
Directions Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
For children under 6 , use only under adult supervision .
Not recommended for infants .
Other information Do not store above105oF , may discolor some fabrics , Harmful to wood finishes and plastics .
Inactive ingredients Carbomer , Triethanolamine , Purified Water , Fragance Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
