( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Solution , 1 . 0 % Rx only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
DESCRIPTION EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % is a broad - spectrum antifungal agent intended for topical application .
Sulconazole nitrate , USP , the active ingredient in EXELDERM SOLUTION , is an imidazole derivative with antifungal and antiyeast activity .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 1 - [ 2 , 4 - dichloro - β - [ ( p - chlorobenzyl ) - thio ] - phenethyl ] imidazole mononitrate and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sulconazole nitrate , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 460 . 77 .
It is freely soluble in pyridine ; slightly soluble in ethanol , acetone , and chloroform ; and very slightly soluble in water .
It has a melting point of about 130 ° C . EXELDERM SOLUTION contains sulconazole nitrate , USP 10 mg / mL in a solution of propylene glycol , poloxamer 407 , polysorbate 20 , butylated hydroxyanisole , and purified water , with sodium hydroxide and , if necessary , nitric acid added to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sulconazole nitrate is an imidazole derivative that inhibits the growth of the common pathogenic dermatophytes including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis .
It also inhibits the organism responsible for tinea versicolor , Malassezia furfur , and certain gram - positive bacteria .
A maximization test with sulconazole nitrate solution showed no evidence of irritation or contact sensitization .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % is a broad - spectrum antifungal agent indicated for the treatment of tinea cruris and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis ; and for the treatment of tinea versicolor .
Effectiveness has not been proven in tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) .
Symptomatic relief usually occurs within a few days after starting EXELDERM SOLUTION and clinical improvement usually occurs within one week .
CONTRAINDICATIONS EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % is contraindicated in patients who have a history of hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS General EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If irritation develops , the solution should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients Patients should be told to use EXELDERM SOLUTION as directed by the physician , to use it externally only , and to avoid contact with the eyes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
In vitro studies have shown no mutagenic activity .
Pregnancy Sulconazole nitrate has been shown to be embryotoxic in rats when given in doses 125 times the human dose ( in mg / kg ) .
The drug at this dose given orally to rats also resulted in prolonged gestation and dystocia .
Several females died during the perinatal period , most likely due to labor complications .
Sulconazole nitrate was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at oral doses of 50 mg / kg / day .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Sulconazole nitrate should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when sulconazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of EXELDERM SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % , did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There were no systemic effects and only infrequent cutaneous adverse reactions in 370 patients treated with sulconazole nitrate solution in controlled clinical trials .
Approximately 1 % of these patients reported itching and 1 % burning or stinging .
These complaints did not usually interfere with treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of solution should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas once or twice daily .
Symptomatic relief usually occurs within a few days after starting EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % , and clinical improvement usually occurs within 1 week .
To reduce the possibility of recurrence , tinea cruris , tinea corporis , and tinea versicolor should be treated for 3 weeks .
If significant clinical improvement is not seen after 4 weeks of treatment , an alternate diagnosis should be considered .
HOW SUPPLIED EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) SOLUTION , 1 . 0 % is a clear , slightly viscous , colorless to slightly yellow liquid with a slight characteristic odor .
It is supplied as follows : 30 mL plastic bottle – NDC 69489 - 721 - 30 Avoid excessive heat , above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) , and protect from light .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
JOURNEY ® MEDICAL CORPORATION Manufactured for : Journey Medical Corp .
Scottsdale , AZ 85258 www . JMCderm . com 141112 Revised March 2021 Principal Display Panel – 30 mL Bottle Label NDC 69489 - 721 - 30 Exelderm ® ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Solution , 1 . 0 % 30 mL Rx only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
JOURNEY MEDICAL CORPORATION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 30 mL Bottle Label Exelderm ® NDC 69489 - 721 - 30 ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Solution , 1 . 0 % Rx only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
