This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : a . Avobenzone 1 . 0 % w / w b . Mineral Oil 30 . 0 % w / w c . Octinoxate 6 . 0 % w / w d . Petrolatum 30 . 0 % w / w e . Zinc Oxide 6 . 0 % w / w f . Aloe Barbadensis ( Alove Vera ) Leaf Juice g . Beeswax h . Butyrpsoermum ( Shea ) Parkii Butter i . Cannabis Sativa ( Hemp ) Seed Oil j . Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride k . Ceresin l . Microcrystalline Wax m . Potassium Sorbate n . Tocopherol The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Avobenzone 1 . 0 % w / w Sunscreen Mineral Oil 30 . 0 % w / w Skin protectant Octinoxate 6 . 0 % w / w Sunscreen Petrolatum 30 . 0 % w / w Skin protectant Zinc Oxide 6 . 0 % w / w Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen , Skin protectant , Lip Balm Use Helps prevent sunburn if use as directed with other sun protection measures .
provides moderate protection against sunburn Helps temporarily protect chapped and cracked lips .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in children less than 6 months of age • on damaged or broken skin • if you are allergic to any ingredients When using this product do not get into eyes .
In case of contact , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply as needed .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply after 60 minutes of swimming or sweatig , immediately after towel drying at leaft every 2 hours .
For best results use daily .
Other information Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF of 15 or higher and other longsleeve shirts , pants or hats and sunglassess .
Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Aloe Barbadensis ( Alove Vera ) Leaf Juice , Beeswax , Butyrpsoermum ( Shea ) Parkii Butter , Cannabis Sativa ( Hemp ) Seed Oil , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Ceresin , Microcrystalline Wax , Potassium Sorbate , Tocopherol Package Label - Principal Display Panel 3 . 5 g x 12 NDC : 80554 - 001 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
