Drug Facts Active Ingredient ( s ) USA Made Ethanol ( Ethyl ) Alcohol 70 % v / v Purpose Antiseptic Inactive Ingredients Purified Water USP , Glycerin ( glycerol ) , Hyrodgen Peroxide , Fragrance * ingredients shown refer to liquid portion only , not to wipe fabric material Use ( s ) * Hand wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Can be used on hands , arms and legs .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Use in a well - ventillated area and avoid near sources of ignition .
Do Not Use • on children less than 2 months of age - supervise use by children • on open skin wounds • keep out of reach of children and pets • for personal hygiene or as a make - up removing wipes • as a baby wipe or diaper wipe When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , redness or rash occurs for over 72 hours .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If eaten , swallowed or chewed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Open box and zipped plastic pouch to thread first wipe ( from center of roll ) through the plastic lid .
Do n't remove all the wipes .
• Zip pouch closed around the wipe .
then re - close the lid & box .
• Gently pull one wipe from the dispenser , pulling at an angle and in a downward motion .
• Wipe your hands using the wipe thoroughly and let hands dry .
• Supervise children under 10 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
• Let hands completely dry before touching a stove or bbq or coming in close contact with any other open flame .
• For best results , clean excessively dirty areas before using wipes .
• Do Not flush wipes .
We recommend that you dispose of them in the trash .
Flushing wipes can cause damage to plumbing .
Other Information • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
