Drug Facts Active ingredient Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Cough suppressant Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with a cold • suppresses the impulse to cough to help you sleep Warnings For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Do not use • by mouth • in nostrils Ask a doctor before use if your child has • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • children 2 to under 12 years of age : • apply a thick layer on chest & throat • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • repeat up to 3 times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 59 - 77 ° F ( 15 - 25 ° C ) • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients beeswax , cedrus atlantica bark oil , eucalyptus globulas leaf oil , glycine soja ( soybean ) oil , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) oil , olea europaea ( olive ) fruit oil , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf extract , silica , tocopherol Dist .
by : KAS Direct , LLC .
Hicksville , NY 11801 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 18 g Tube Box babyganics ® cold relief chest rub with natural menthol ∙ cough suppressant non - allergenic ∙ pediatrician & dermatologist tested no : parabens , phthalates , mineral oil , petrolatum , artificial fragrances or dyes 0 . 64 OZ ( 18 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
