Active Ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octocrylene 5 % Homosalate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Carbomer , Ethylhexylglycerin , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Phenoxyethanol , Polyethylene , Polysorbate 20 , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Oleate , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Theobroma Cacao ( Cocoa ) Seed Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate , Water Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Purpose Sunscreen Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • wear long sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect this product from excesive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
877 - 875 - 5225 , 9 - 5 PST weekdays .
Every Man Jack SPF 30 Fragrance Free Sun Protection Lotion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
