Active Ingredient : Poloxamer 407 STEP 1 : Place 3 drops of Dream Eye on each side of contact lens and rub for 20 seconds .
No necessary .
separate daily cleaner STEP 2 : Remove surface debris by rinsing thoroughly with Dream Eye STEP 3 : Place cleaned contact lens in the lens case and fill with fresh Dream Eye MPS .
Soak at least four ( 4 ) hours .
Cleans , loosens and removes accumulations of film , deposits and debris from soft contact lenses .
Destroys harmful micro - organisms on the surface of the lens .
Rinse , stores and rewets lenses before insertion .
For dissolving of Enzymatic Contact Lens Cleaner tablets for removal of protein deposits .
PRECAUTIONS : ☞ Never re - use this solution .
☞ Keep the bottle tightly closed when not in use .
☞ Store at room temperature .
☞ Use before the expiration date marked on the bottle and carton .
ACTIONS : Cleans , loosens and removes accumulations of film , deposits and debris from soft contact lenses .
Destroys harmful micro - organisms on the surface of the lens .
Rinse , stores and rewets lenses before insertion .
For dissolving of Enzymatic Contact Lens Cleaner tablets for removal of protein deposits .
Keep out of the reach of children INDICATIONS ( Uses ) : Dream Eye is indicated for use in daily cleaning , dissolving of Enzymatic Contact Lens Cleaner tablets , rinsing and storage of daily and extended wear soft contact lenses and chemical ( not heat ) disinfection , as recommended by your eye care professional .
WARNING : PROBLEMS WITH CONTACT LENSES AND LENS CARE PRODUCTS COULD RESULT IN SERIOUS INJURY TO THE EYE .
It is essential that you follow your eye care practitioner ' s directions and all labeling instructions for proper use and care of your lenses and lens care products , including the lens case .
☞ To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Replace cap after using .
☞ Not intended for use directly in the eye .
☞ Not for use with heat ( thermal ) disinfection .
DIRECTIONS : ☞ After removing the lens , place it in the palm of your hand , and place three drops of Daily Cleaner on each lens surface .
or Soak at least four ( 4 ) hours in Dream Eye .
☞ Rub the lens for 20 seconds either in the palm of your hand using the forefinger of the other hand , or between the thumb and forefinger .
Be sure to clean each side of the lens .
☞ Rinse the lens thoroughly by holding the lens in a steady stream of saline solution for approximately 10 seconds .
☞ Disinfect using the procedure which your practitioner has recommended .
Inactive ingredient : Sodium Chloride , Sodium Borate , Boric Acid , HYPROMELLOSES , EDETATE DISODIUM , Water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
