Active Ingredients ( in each 5 mL tsp . )
Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr ............... 5 mg ................
Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin .............................. 75 mg ................
Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl .....................
2 . 5 mg ................... Nasal Decongestant Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Warnings Ask a doctor before use if your child has • heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • trouble urinating due to the enlargement of the prostate gland • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • cough that lasts or is chronic as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis or emphysema When using this product , do not exceed recommended dosage Stop use and ask doctor if • your child gets nervous , dizzy or sleepless • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or are accompanied by fever • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back or is accompanied by fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI ; ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product - Do not use - in a child under 2 years of age .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Indications • Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with common cold • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes • temporarily relieves nasal congestion due to the common cold Directions Do not exceed more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period adults and children 12 years of age and over take 4 teaspoonfuls ( 20 mL ) every 4 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age take 2 teaspoonful ( 10 mL ) every 4 hours children 2 years to under 6 years of age take 1 teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) every 4 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor Inactive ingredients citric acid , flavor , methylparaben , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate and sucralose Questions or comments ?
1 - 305 - 403 - 3788 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
