Carton Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 0 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Uses helps prevent sunburn Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Ask Doctor section Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Centre right away Directions • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Other information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • avoid contact with fabric Inactive ingredients Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , Glycerin , Tribehenin , Alcohol denat . , Aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , Dimethicone , Cetearyl glucoside , Ammonium acryloldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , Phenoxyethanol , Potassium cetyl phosphate , Panthenol , Tocopheryl acetate , Polysorbate 20 , Dimethiconol , Caprylyl glycol , Ascorbyl glucoside , Sodium benzoate , Bisabolol , Xanthan gum , Ethylhexylglycerin , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Citric acid , Simethicone , Sphinganine , Tetrasodium EDTA , Dipropylene glycol , Potassium hydroxide , T - butyl alcohol , Dimethylmethoxy chromanol , Camellia sinensis leaf extract , BHT .
Questions USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 752 - 6687 Information Manufactured for The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Boots Retail Ireland Dublin 12 Ireland .
Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA , New York , NY 10005 Made in the UK soapandglory . com Description Sun Protection and pore - fectly bright skin .
It has to be an ... This lightweight , non - clogging formula means it ' s suitable for daily use .
Plus , it contains powerful antioxidants , leaving skin GLORY - ously glowy !
Enhance the natural radiance of your skin .
Helps protect your complexion from the sun .
Double Defence Non - clogging Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Dermatologically tested .
87 % of women agreed their skin looked brighter / more radiant after 4 weeks of use .
* * from user trials conducted on 115 women Manufactured for The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Boots Retail Ireland Dublin 12 Ireland .
Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA , New York , NY 10005 Made in the UK soapandglory . com Tube wording Soap & Glory Urban Legend Antioxidant Day Cream with Green Tea and Vitamin C Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 30 This lightweight , non - clogging formula means it ' s suitable for daily use .
Plus , it contains powerful antioxidants , leaving skin GLORY - ously glowy !
Enhance the natural radiance of your skin , wh ile helping protect to your complexion from the sun with our double - defence , non - clogging , protecting day cream .
Every day , apply liberally cheeks , chin & forehead .
Using our fingertips , gently blend into the skin making sure every last little bit is covered .
Warning : Avoid contact with the eyes .
If contact with eyes occurs , rinse thoroughly with warm water .
This product is not designed for sunbathing .
Avoid contact with fabric .
Active Ingredients : Avobenzone 3 % Octinoxate 0 . 5 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 7 . 5 % Manufactured for The Boots Company PLC Nottingham England NG2 3 AA .
Boots Retail Ireland Dublin 12 Ireland .
Dist .
in the USA by Boots Retail USA , New York , NY 10005 Made in the UK soapandglory . com Carton Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
