Other safety information Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequences Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose cough suppressant & topical analgesic uses • on chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to common cold • on muscles and jonts , temporarily releives minor aches and pains Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use • by mouth • with tight bandages • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough tht occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema When using this product Do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains persist more than 7 days or come back • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions See imporatant warning under " When using this product " • adults + children 2 yrs + over : • rub a thick layer on chest + throat or rub on sore aching muscles • cover with warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat / chest to help vapors reach the nose / mouth • repeat up to three times per 24 hours or as directed by doctor • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature Inactive ingredients cedarleaf oil , nutmeg oil , special petrolatum , spirits of turpentine , thymol information The active ingredients in Safeway Medicated Chest Rub work naturally by breathing in the medicated vapors to relieve coughing due to colds .
Safeway Medicated Chest Rub also relieves minor aches and pains .
Disclaimer This product is not manufactred or distributed by Procter & Gamble , distributor of Vicks VapoRub Adverse Reactions Distributed by Kroger . Co principal display panel COMPARE TO the active ingredients of VICKS VAPORRUB * See side panel Kroger Medicated Chest Rub COUGH SUPPRESSANT TOPICAL ANALGESIC Our Pharamacists Recommend NET WT 3 . 53 ( 100 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
