Drug Facts Active Ingredients Menthol 1 . 4 % Methyl Salicylate 10 % Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor pain associated with menstrual cramps .
Warnings For external use only When using this product • use only as directed • avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • redness is present • irritation develops .
Allergy Alert Do not use if you are allergic to salicylates ( including aspirin ) without consulting a physician .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children over 12 years of age : • apply to affected area • massage into painful area until thoroughly absorbed into skin • repeat as necessary , but no more than 4 times daily .
Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 66 - 77 ° F ) .
Inactive Ingredients Vitamin E , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Isopropyl Myristate , Eucalyptus Leaf Oil .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 855 - 349 - 7735 or visit www . drjoelab . com to report serious adverse events associated with use of the product .
Temporary relief of monthly feminine discomfort Fast Acting Long Lasting Pain Relief Dr Joe Lab PMS Menstrual Pain Relief Oil is a safe and highly effective topical analgesic specifically designed to relieve menstrual pain .
• Fast Acting • Safe For Women • Applies Easily • Absorbs Quickly • Won ’ t Stain Clothes • Soft Pleasant Scent All Natural Menstrual Cramps Relief It is safe to use for all women regardless of the severity of their discomfort .
The all - natural plant extracts in this oil help to temporary relieve pain associated with menstrual cramps .
There ' s no harm in putting a little oil in your belly button .
Just do n't press down too hard on your belly button , as there ' s a large amount of nerves around your gut , and the pressure could be painful .
Manufactured by Despina Pharma Inc Distributed by Dr Joe Lab Inc 1720 E Garry Ave , Ste 119 Santa Ana , CA 92705 www . drjoelab . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
