Active ingredient Sodium fluoride ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Purpose Anticavity Use aids in the prevention of dental cavities Warnings When using this product , if irritation occurs discontinue use Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
If you accidentally swallow more than used for brushing , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children under 6 years of age .
( Whitening Multi Action only ) If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • adults and children 2 years and older : • • apply toothpaste onto a toothbrush • • brush teeth thoroughly , preferably after each meal , or at least twice a day , and not more than 3 times a day , or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
• • to minimize swallowing for children under 6 years of age , use a pea - sized amount and supervise brushing and rinsing until good habits are established • • children under 2 years consult a dentist or doctor Other information • • store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients ( whitening action ) water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , PEG - 8 , flavor , sodium lauryl sulfate , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin , synthetic iron oxide , red 30 Inactive ingredients ( deep action ) water , hydrated silica , sorbitol , glycerin , PEG - 8 , sodium lauryl sulfate , flavor , xanthan gum , titanium dioxide , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin , iron oxide , red 30 Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 800 - 897 - 5623 ( English / Spanish ) weekdays Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0234 - 08 Aquafresh ® fluoride toothpaste triple protection ® EXTREME CLEAN ® WITH MICRO - ACTIVE FOAMING ACTION whitening action Sugar Acid Protection ** from Fluoride mint blast helps restore natural whiteness TWIN VALUE PACK 2 TUBES OF 5 . 6 OZ ( 158 . 7 g ) EACH TOTAL NET WT 11 . 2 OZ ( 317 . 4 g ) Aquafresh ® Extreme Clean ® Whitening Action toothpaste creates micro - active foam which seeks out hard to reach places in your mouth and fights bad breath .
It rinses clear and carefully polishes your teeth so after only one tube you ’ ll be left with significantly cleaner , smoother , whiter teeth * .
Take the Feeling of Clean to the Extreme !
® Sugar Acid Protection ** ** With Sugar Acid Protection provided by fluoride , which strengthens enamel , creating a shield that protects the tooth surface against sugar acid attack .
triple protection • • healthy gums † • • strong teeth • • fresh breath † with twice daily brushing * vs a regular toothpaste ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL Trademarks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
AQUAFRESH , TRIPLE PROTECTION , the iconic Nurdle device are trademarks of the GSK group of companies .
GSK Consumer Healthcare Warren , NJ 07059 © 2015 GSK group of companies 1 - 800 - 897 - 5623 105517 XA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 0135 - 0432 - 02 Aquafresh ® fluoride toothpaste triple protection ® EXTREME CLEAN ® WITH MICRO - ACTIVE FOAMING ACTION + WHITENING deep action Sugar Acid Protection ** from Fluoride mint zest for a whole mouth clean NET WT 5 . 6 oz ( 158 . 7 g ) Aquafresh ® Extreme Clean ® Deep Action toothpaste creates micro - active foam which seeks hard to reach places ; in between teeth and even the back of your tongue and rinses clear to leave your teeth clean and smooth .
Enjoy a whole mouth clean .
Take the Feeling of Clean to the Extreme !
® ** With Sugar Acid Protection provided by fluoride , which strengthens enamel , creating a shield that protects the tooth surface against sugar acid attack .
healthy gums * strong teeth fresh breath * with twice daily brushing ALWAYS FOLLOW THE LABEL AQUAFRESH , TRIPLE PROTECTION , the iconic Nurdle device are trademarks of the GSK group of companies .
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare , L . P . Moon Township , PA 15108 © 2015 GSK group of companies We value your feedback 1 - 800 - 897 - 5623 101883 XD [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
