DESCRIPTION Niacin or nicotinic acid , a water - soluble B ‑ complex vitamin and antihyperlipidemic agent , is 3 ‑ pyridinecarboxylic acid .
It is a white , crystalline powder , sparingly soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : MW = 123 . 11 [ MULTIMEDIA ] C6H5NO2 Each Niacin Tablet , for oral administration , contains 500 mg of nicotinic acid .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , hydrogenated vegetable oil , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The role of low - density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol in atherogenesis is supported by pathological observations , clinical studies , and many animal experiments .
Observational epidemiological studies have clearly established that high total or LDL cholesterol and low high - density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol are risk factors for coronary heart disease .
The Coronary Drug Project1 , completed in 1975 , was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of nicotinic acid and other lipid - altering drugs in men 30 to 64 years old with a history of myocardial infarction ( MI ) .
Over an observation period of five years , nicotinic acid showed a statistically significant benefit in decreasing nonfatal , recurrent myocardial infarctions .
The incidence of definite , nonfatal MI was 8 . 9 % for the 1 , 119 patients randomized to nicotinic acid versus 12 . 2 % for the 2 , 789 patients who received placebo ( p < 0 . 004 ) .
Though total mortality was similar in the two groups at five years ( 24 . 4 % with nicotinic acid versus 25 . 4 % with placebo ; p = N . S . ) , in a fifteen year cumulative follow - up there were 11 % ( 69 ) fewer deaths in the nicotinic acid group compared to the placebo cohort ( 52 . 0 % versus 58 . 2 % ; p = 0 . 0004 ) 2 .
The Cholesterol - Lowering Atherosclerosis Study ( CLAS ) was a randomized , placebo - controlled , angiographic trial testing combined colestipol and nicotinic acid therapy in 162 non - smoking males with previous coronary bypass surgery3 .
The primary , per subject cardiac endpoint was global coronary artery change score .
After two years , 61 % of patients in the placebo cohort showed disease progression by global change score ( N = 82 ) , compared with only 38 . 8 % of drug - treated subjects ( N = 80 ) , when both native arteries and grafts were considered ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
In a follow - up to this trial in a subgroup of 103 patients treated for four years , again , significantly fewer patients in the drug - treated group demonstrated progression than in the placebo cohort ( 48 % versus 85 % , respectively ; p < 0 . 0001 ) 4 .
The Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study ( FATS ) in 146 men ages 62 and younger with apolipoprotein B levels ≥ 125 mg / dL , established coronary artery disease , and family histories of vascular disease , assessed change in severity of disease in the proximal coronary arteries by quantitative arteriography5 .
Patients were given dietary counseling and randomized to treatment with either conventional therapy with double placebo ( or placebo plus colestipol if the LDL cholesterol was elevated ) ; lovastatin plus colestipol ; or nicotinic acid plus colestipol .
In the conventional therapy group , 46 % of patients had disease progression ( and no regression ) in at least one of nine proximal coronary segments .
In contrast , progression ( as the only change ) was seen in only 25 % in the nicotinic acid plus colestipol group .
Though not an original endpoint of the trial , clinical events ( death , myocardial infarction , or revascularization for worsening angina ) occurred in 10 of 52 patients who received conventional therapy , compared with 2 of 48 who received nicotinic acid plus colestipol .
Nicotinic acid ( but not nicotinamide ) in gram doses produces an average 10 % to 20 % reduction in total and LDL cholesterol , a 30 % to 70 % reduction in triglycerides , and an average 20 % to 35 % increase in HDL cholesterol .
The magnitude of individual lipid and lipoprotein responses may be influenced by the severity and type of underlying lipid abnormality .
The increase in total HDL is associated with a shift in the distribution of HDL sub - fractions ( as defined by ultra - centrifugation ) with an increase in the HDL2 : HDL3 ratio and an increase in apolipoprotein A ‑ I content .
The mechanism by which nicotinic acid exerts these effects is not entirely understood , but may involve several actions , including a decrease in esterification of hepatic triglycerides .
Nicotinic acid treatment also decreases the serum levels of apolipoprotein B ‑ 100 ( apo B ) , the major protein component of the very low - density lipoprotein ( VLDL ) and LDL fractions , and of lipoprotein a [ Lp ( a ) ] , a variant form of LDL independently associated with coronary risk .
The effect of nicotinic acid - induced changes in lipids / lipoproteins on cardiovascular morbidity or mortality in individuals without pre - existing coronary disease has not been established .
Pharmacokinetics Following an oral dose , the pharmacokinetic profile of nicotinic acid is characterized by rapid absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and a short plasma elimination half - life .
At a 1 gram dose , peak plasma concentrations of 15 to 30 µg / mL are reached within 30 to 60 minutes .
Approximately 88 % of an oral pharmacologic dose is eliminated by the kidneys as unchanged drug and nicotinuric acid , its primary metabolite .
The plasma elimination half - life of nicotinic acid ranges from 20 to 45 minutes .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE I . Therapy with lipid - altering agents should be only one component of multiple risk factor intervention in those individuals at significantly increased risk for atherosclerotic vascular disease due to hypercholesterolemia .
Nicotinic acid , alone or in combination with a bile - acid binding resin , is indicated as an adjunct to diet for the reduction of elevated total and LDL cholesterol levels in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia ( Types IIa and IIb ) † , when the response to a diet restricted in saturated fat and cholesterol and other nonpharmacologic measures alone has been inadequate ( see also the NCEP treatment guidelines6 ) .
Prior to initiating therapy with nicotinic acid , secondary causes for hypercholesterolemia ( e . g . , poorly controlled diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , nephrotic syndrome , dysproteinemias , obstructive liver disease , other drug therapy , alcoholism ) should be excluded , and a lipid profile performed to measure total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , and triglycerides .
II .
Nicotinic acid is also indicated as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of adult patients with very high serum triglyceride levels ( Types IV and V hyperlipidemia ) † who present a risk of pancreatitis and who do not respond adequately to a determined dietary effort to control them .
Such patients typically have serum triglyceride levels over 2 , 000 mg / dL and have elevations of VLDL cholesterol as well as fasting chylomicrons ( Type V hyperlipidemia ) † .
Subjects who consistently have total serum or plasma triglycerides below 1 , 000 mg / dL are unlikely to develop pancreatitis .
Therapy with nicotinic acid may be considered for those subjects with triglyceride elevations between 1 , 000 and 2 , 000 mg / dL who have a history of pancreatitis or of recurrent abdominal pain typical of pancreatitis .
Some Type IV patients with triglycerides under 1 , 000 mg / dL may , through dietary or alcoholic indiscretion , convert to a Type V pattern with massive triglyceride elevations accompanying fasting chylomicronemia , but the influence of nicotinic acid therapy on the risk of pancreatitis in such situations has not been adequately studied .
Drug therapy is not indicated for patients with Type I hyperlipoproteinemia , who have elevations of chylomicrons and plasma triglycerides , but who have normal levels of VLDL .
Inspection of plasma refrigerated for 14 hours is helpful in distinguishing Types I , IV , and V hyperlipoproteinemia7 .
† Classification of Hyperlipoproteinemias Lipoproteins Lipid Elevations Type Elevated Major Minor C = cholesterol , TG = triglycerides LDL = low - density lipoprotein VLDL = very low - density lipoprotein IDL = intermediate - density lipoprotein I ( rare ) Chylomicrons TG ↑→ C IIa LDL C ..... IIb LDL , VLDL C TG III ( rare ) IDL C / TG ..... IV VLDL TG ↑→ C V ( rare ) Chylomicrons , VLDL TG ↑→ C CONTRAINDICATIONS Nicotinic acid is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of this medication ; significant or unexplained hepatic dysfunction ; active peptic ulcer disease ; or arterial bleeding .
WARNINGS Liver Dysfunction Cases of severe hepatic toxicity , including fulminant hepatic necrosis have occurred in patients who have substituted sustained - release ( modified - release , timed - release ) nicotinic acid products for immediate - release ( crystalline ) nicotinic acid at equivalent doses .
Liver function tests should be performed on all patients during therapy with nicotinic acid .
Serum transaminase levels , including ALT ( SGPT ) , should be monitored before treatment begins , every six weeks to twelve weeks for the first year , and periodically thereafter ( e . g . , at approximately 6 month intervals ) .
Special attention should be paid to patients who develop elevated serum transaminase levels , and in these patients , measurements should be repeated promptly and then performed more frequently .
If the transaminase levels show evidence of progression , particularly if they rise to three times the upper limit of normal and are persistent , the drug should be discontinued .
Liver biopsy should be considered if elevations persist beyond discontinuation of the drug .
Nicotinic acid should be used with caution in patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and / or have a past history of liver disease .
Active liver diseases or unexplained transaminase elevations are contraindications to the use of nicotinic acid .
Skeletal Muscle Rare cases of rhabdomyolysis have been associated with concomitant administration of lipid - altering doses ( ≥ 1 g / day ) of nicotinic acid and HMG ‑ CoA reductase inhibitors .
Physicians contemplating combined therapy with HMG ‑ CoA reductase inhibitors and nicotinic acid should carefully weigh the potential benefits and risks and should carefully monitor patients for any signs and symptoms of muscle pain , tenderness , or weakness , particularly during the initial months of therapy and during any periods of upward dosage titration of either drug .
Periodic serum creatine phosphokinase ( CPK ) and potassium determinations should be considered in such situations , but there is no assurance that such monitoring will prevent the occurrence of severe myopathy .
PRECAUTIONS General Before instituting therapy with nicotinic acid , an attempt should be made to control hyperlipidemia with appropriate diet , exercise , and weight reduction in obese patients , and to treat other underlying medical problems [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ] .
Patients with a past history of jaundice , hepatobiliary disease , or peptic ulcer should be observed closely during nicotinic acid therapy .
Frequent monitoring of liver function tests and blood glucose should be performed to ascertain that the drug is producing no adverse effects on these organ systems .
Diabetic patients may experience a dose - related rise in glucose intolerance , the clinical significance of which is unclear .
Diabetic or potentially diabetic patients should be observed closely .
Adjustment of diet and / or hypoglycemic therapy may be necessary .
Caution should also be used when nicotinic acid is used in patients with unstable angina or in the acute phase of myocardial infarction , particularly when such patients are also receiving vasoactive drugs such as nitrates , calcium channel blockers , or adrenergic blocking agents .
Elevated uric acid levels have occurred with nicotinic acid therapy , therefore use with caution in patients predisposed to gout .
Drug Interactions HMG ‑ CoA Reductase Inhibitors See WARNINGS , Skeletal Muscle .
Antihypertensive Therapy Nicotinic acid may potentiate the effects of ganglionic blocking agents and vasoactive drugs resulting in postural hypotension .
Aspirin Concomitant aspirin may decrease the metabolic clearance of nicotinic acid .
The clinical relevance of this finding is unclear .
Other Concomitant alcohol or hot drinks may increase the side effects of flushing and pruritus and should be avoided at the time of drug ingestion .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Nicotinic acid administered to mice for a lifetime as a 1 % solution in drinking water was not carcinogenic .
The mice in this study received approximately 6 to 8 times a human dose of 3 , 000 milligrams / day as determined on a milligram / square meter basis .
Nicotinic acid was negative for mutagenicity in the Ames test .
No studies on impairment of fertility have been performed .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with nicotinic acid .
It is also not known whether nicotinic acid at doses typically used for lipid disorders can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or whether it can affect reproductive capacity .
If a woman receiving nicotinic acid for primary hypercholesterolemia ( Types IIa or IIb ) becomes pregnant , the drug should be discontinued .
If a woman being treated with nicotinic acid for hypertriglyceridemia ( Types IV or V ) conceives , the benefits and risks of continued drug therapy should be assessed on an individual basis .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from lipid - altering doses of nicotinic acid , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children and adolescents have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cardiovascular : Atrial fibrillation and other cardiac arrhythmias , orthostasis , hypotension .
Gastrointestinal : Dyspepsia , vomiting , diarrhea , peptic ulceration , jaundice , abnormal liver function tests .
Skin : Mild to severe cutaneous flushing , pruritus , hyperpigmentation , acanthosis nigricans , dry skin .
Metabolic : Decreased glucose tolerance , hyperuricemia , gout .
Eye : Toxic amblyopia , cystoid macular edema .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Headache .
OVERDOSAGE Supportive measures should be undertaken in the event of an overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The usual adult dosage of nicotinic acid is 1 to 2 grams two or three times a day .
Doses should be individualized according to the patient ' s response .
Start with one - half tablet ( 250 mg ) as a single daily dose following the evening meal .
The frequency of dosing and total daily dose can be increased every four to seven days until the desired LDL cholesterol and / or triglyceride level is achieved or the first - level therapeutic dose of 1 . 5 to 2 grams / day is reached .
If the patient ' s hyperlipidemia is not adequately controlled after 2 months at this level , the dosage can then be increased at two to four week intervals to 3 grams / day ( 1 gram three times per day ) .
In patients with marked lipid abnormalities , a higher dose is occasionally required , but generally should not exceed 6 grams / day .
Flushing of the skin appears frequently and can be minimized by pretreatment with aspirin or non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Tolerance to this flushing develops rapidly over the course of several weeks .
Flushing , pruritus , and gastrointestinal distress are also greatly reduced by slowly increasing the dose of nicotinic acid and avoiding administration on an empty stomach .
Sustained - release ( modified - release , timed - release ) nicotinic acid preparations should not be substituted for equivalent doses of immediate - release ( crystalline ) nicotinic acid .
HOW SUPPLIED Niacin Tablets , USP 500 mg .
Each tablet is a white , capsule - shaped , scored , uncoated tablet , debossed " US " to the left and " 67 " to the right of the score , with " 500 " strength on the unscored side .
Niacin is available in bottles of 90 tablets ( NDC 71741 - 047 - 90 ) .
Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP with a child - resistant closure .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES • The Coronary Drug Project Research Group .
Clofibrate and Niacin in Coronary Heart Disease .
JAMA 1975 ; 231 : 360 – 81 .
• Canner PL et al .
Fifteen Year Mortality in Coronary Drug Project Patients : Long - Term Benefit with Niacin .
JACC 1986 ; 8 ( 6 ) : 1245 – 55 .
• Blankenhorn DH et al .
Beneficial Effects of Combined Colestipol - Niacin Therapy on Coronary Atherosclerosis and Coronary Venous Bypass Grafts .
JAMA 1987 ; 257 ( 23 ) : 3233 – 40 .
• Cashin - Hemphill et al .
Beneficial Effects of Colestipol - Niacin on Coronary Atherosclerosis .
JAMA 1990 ; 264 ( 23 ) : 3013 – 17 .
• Brown G et al .
Regression of Coronary Artery Disease as a Result of Intensive Lipid - Lowering Therapy in Men with High Levels of Apolipoprotein B . NEJM 1990 ; 323 : 1289 – 98 .
• Report of the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol .
Arch Int Med 1988 ; 148 : 36 – 69 .
• Nikkila EA : Familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency and related disorders of chylomicron metabolism .
In Stanbury JB et al . ( eds . )
: The Metabolic Basis of Inherited Disease , 5 th ed . , McGraw - Hill , 1983 , Chap .
30 , pp . 622 – 642 .
Manufactured for Redmont Pharmaceuticals , LLC Birmingham , AL 35209 764322 - 01 Revised 0219 © 2019 Redmont Pharmaceuticals , LLC PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 71741 - 047 - 90 NIACIN Niacin Tablets , USP 500 mg 90 TABLETS Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
