Your dentist has selected for you FluoriShield , a 1 . 1 % Sodium Fluoride product that was specially developed to prevent tooth decay which can occur from xerostomia ( dry mouth ) .
Dry mouth can result from radiation therapy , systemic diseases , medications which affect the salivary glands and mouth breathing .
Clinical trials have shown that application of topical fluoride gel in the presence of good oral hygiene can prevent or significantly reduce tooth decay which is related to dry mouth .
FluoriShield topical fluoride gel can be applied with a custom carrier or tray , directly brushed on , or used with an over denture .
Your dentist will prescribe the method that is best suited for your individual needs .
The gel is easily dispensed when the bottle is inverted for storing .
STORE INVERTED FOR EASY REMOVAL OF CONTENTS .
Description : Topical neutral 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride for use as a dental caries preventative in children and adults .
This prescription product is not a dentifrice .
Warnings : DO NOT SWALLOW .
As with all medications , this product should be kept out of reach of children .
Overdose : Accidental ingestion of a usual treatment dose ( 1 - 2 mgF ) is not harmful .
Store at temperature between 68º - 77ºF ( 20º - 25ºC ) .
CAUTION : Federal ( U . S . A . ) law prohibits dispensing without a prescription .
INSTRUCTIONS Custom Carriers or Trays Brush and floss your teeth to remove plaque .
Adults and children 6 years of age or older : Add one drop of FluoriShield into each tooth area in the custom carrier and spread evenly with the applicator tip of the fluoride bottle .
Place carriers over the teeth and let it remain in place for one ( 1 ) minute or longer ( as directed by your doctor ) .
Expectorate the excess gel .
Clean carriers with cold water .
Spit out the excess gel in the mouth and do not rinse , eat , or drink for thirty ( 30 ) minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Brush On Brush and floss your teeth to remove plaque .
Adults and children 6 years of age or older : Apply a thin ribbon of gel to the toothbrush and spread evenly with the applicator tip of the fluoride bottle .
Brush all tooth surfaces and allow fluoride to remain in place for one ( 1 ) minute or longer ( as directed by your doctor ) .
Clean carriers with cold water .
Expectorate the excess gel in the mouth and do not rinse , eat , or drink for thirty ( 30 ) minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Overdentures Brush all tooth surfaces .
Clean your dentures .
Adults and children 6 years of age or older : Apply one ( 1 ) or two ( 2 ) drops of FluoriShield to each tooth area in your denture and place the dentures in your mouth .
Leave in place for one ( 1 ) minute or longer ( as directed by your doctor ) .
Expectorate the excess gel in the mouth and do not rinse , eat , or drink for thirty ( 30 ) minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ™ MEDICAL PRODUCTS LABORATORIES , INC .
9990 Global Road • Phila . , PA 19115 - 1083 800 - 523 - 0191 fax 215 - 677 - 7736 www . mplusa . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
