Active ingredients ( in each effervescent tablet ) Aspirin 325 mg ( NSAID ) * Citric acid 1000 mg Sodium bicarbonate ( heat - treated ) 1916 mg * Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Purpose Aspirin 325 mg ( NSAID ) * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
Pain reliever Citric acid 1000 mg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..
. . . Antacid Sodium bicarbonate ( heat - treated ) 1916 mg . . . . . .
Antacid * Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug Uses Usesfor the temporary relief of ■ heartburn , acid indigestion and sour stomach when accompanied by headache or body aches and pains ■ upset stomach with headache from overindulgence in food or drink ■ pain alone ( headaches or body aches and pains ) Warnings Reye ’ s syndrome : Children and teenagers who have or are recovering from chicken pox or flu - like symptoms should not use this product .
When using this product , if changes in behavior with nausea and vomiting occur , consult a doctor because these symptoms could be an early sign of Reye ’ s syndrome , a rare but serious illness .
Allergy alert : Aspirin may cause a severe allergic reaction which may include : ■ hives ■ facial swelling ■ asthma ( wheezing ) ■ shock Stomach bleeding warning : This product contains a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug ( NSAID ) , which may cause severe stomach bleeding .
The chance is higher if you ■ are age 60 or older ■ have had stomach ulcers or bleeding problems ■ take a blood thinning ( anticoagulant ) or steroid drug ■ take other drugs containing prescription or nonprescription NSAIDs ( aspirin , ibuprofen , naproxen , or others ) ■ have 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product ■ take more or for a longer time than directed Do not use Do not use ■ if you have ever had an allergic reaction to any other pain reliever / fever reducer ■ if you are allergic to aspirin ■ if overly full from food or drink .
Ask a doctor if severe stomach pain occurs after taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if Ask a doctor before use if ■ stomach bleeding warning applies to you ■ you have a history of stomach problems , such as heartburn ■ you have high blood pressure , heart disease , liver cirrhosis , or kidney disease ■ you are taking a diuretic Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are ■ presently taking a prescription drug .
Antacids may interact with certain prescription drugs .
■ taking a prescription drug for anticoagulation ( thinning the blood ) , diabetes , gout or arthritis When using this product When using this product do not take more than 8 tablets ( adults ) or 4 tablets ( 60 years and over ) in a 24 - hour period or use the maximum dosage for more than 10 days Stop use and ask a doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if you experience any of the following signs of stomach bleeding ■ feel faint ■ vomit blood ■ have bloody or black stools ■ have stomach pain that does not get better ■ an allergic reaction occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
■ pain lasts for more than 10 days or gets worse ■ new symptoms occur ■ redness or swelling is present ■ ringing in the ears or a loss of hearing occurs If pregnant or breast - feeding If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
It is especially important not to use aspirin during the last 3 months of pregnancy unless definitely directed to do so by a doctor because it may cause problems in the unborn child or complications during delivery .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ do not exceed recommended dosage ■ to avoid serious injury , completely dissolve tablets in 4 oz .
of water before taking adults and children 12 years and over ( up to 60 years of age ) : 2 tablets every 4 hours - do not exceed 8 tablets in 24 hours 60 years and over : 2 tablets every 4 hours do not exceed 4 tablets in 24 hours Take this product any time - morning , noon or night - when you need relief from hearburn , acid indigestion , sour stomach with headache or body aches and pains .
Place two ( 2 ) tablets in 4 oz .
of water .
Dissolve tablets completely .
You do not have to drink any of the residue that may be on the bottom of the glass .
The medicines are in the water .
Other information ■ each tablet contains : sodium 524 mg ■ store at room temperature ( 59º - 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients ■ none Questions Serious side effects associated with the use of this product can be reported to the following address : DISTRIBUTED BY PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS , INC .
3300 PUBLIX CORPORATE PARKWAY LAKELAND , FL 33811 publix . com PACKAGE LABEL .
PRINCIIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
