( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Cream , 1 . 0 % Rx only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
DESCRIPTION EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) CREAM , 1 . 0 % is a broad - spectrum antifungal agent intended for topical application .
Sulconazole nitrate , USP , the active ingredient in EXELDERM CREAM , is an imidazole derivative with in vitro antifungal and antiyeast activity .
Its chemical name is ( ± ) - 1 - [ 2 , 4 - dichloro - β - [ ( p - chlorobenzyl ) - thiol ] - phenethyl ] imidazole mononitrate and it has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sulconazole nitrate , USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 460 . 77 .
It is freely soluble in pyridine ; slightly soluble in ethanol , acetone , and chloroform ; and very slightly soluble in water .
It has a melting point of about 130 ° C . EXELDERM CREAM contains sulconazole nitrate , USP 10 mg / g in an emollient cream base consisting of propylene glycol , stearyl alcohol , isopropyl myristate , cetyl alcohol , polysorbate 60 , sorbitan mono - stearate , glyceryl stearate ( and ) PEG - 100 stearate , ascorbyl paImitate , and purified water , with sodium hydroxide and / or nitric acid added to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sulconazole nitrate is an imidazole derivative with broad - spectrum antifungal activity that inhibits the growth in vitro of the common pathogenic dermatophytes including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum and Microsporum canis .
It also inhibits ( in vitro ) the organism responsible for tinea versicolor , Malassezia furfur .
Sulconazole nitrate has been shown to be active in vitro against the following microorganisms , although clinical efficacy has not been established : Candida albicans and certain gram - positive bacteria .
A modified Draize test showed no allergic contact dermatitis and a phototoxicity study showed no phototoxic or photoallergic reaction to sulconazole nitrate cream .
Maximization tests with sulconazole nitrate cream showed no evidence of contact sensitization or irritation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) CREAM , 1 . 0 % is an antifungal agent indicated for the treatment of tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis caused by Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagro - phytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis , * and for the treatment of tinea versicolor .
* Efficacy for this organism in the organ system was studied in fewer than ten infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) CREAM , 1 . 0 % is contraindicated in patients who have a history of hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients .
PRECAUTIONS General EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) CREAM , 1 . 0 % is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
If irritation develops , the cream should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Information for Patients Patients should be told to use EXELDERM CREAM as directed by the physician , to use it externally only , and to avoid contact with the eyes .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies to determine carcinogenic potential have not been performed .
In vitro studies have shown no mutagenic activity .
Pregnancy There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Sulconazole nitrate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Sulconazole nitrate has been shown to be embryotoxic in rats when given in doses of 125 times the adult human dose ( in mg / kg ) .
The drug was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits at oral doses of 50 mg / kg / day .
Sulconazole nitrate given orally to rats at a dose 125 times the human dose resulted in prolonged gestation and dystocia .
Several females died during the prenatal period , most likely due to labor complications .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether sulconazole nitrate is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when sul - conazole nitrate is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in children have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of EXELDERM CREAM , 1 . 0 % , did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS There were no systemic effects and only infrequent cutaneous adverse reactions in 1185 patients treated with sulconazole nitrate cream in controlled clinical trials .
Approximately 3 % of these patients reported itching , 3 % burning or stinging , and 1 % redness .
These complaints did not usually interfere with treatment .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a vehicle - controlled study for the treatment of tinea pedis ( moccasin type ) due to T . rubrum , after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment 69 % of patients on the active drug and 19 % of patients on the drug vehicle had become KOH and culture negative .
In addition , 68 % of patients on the active drug and 20 % of patients on the drug vehicle showed a good or excellent clinical response .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of cream should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas once or twice daily , except in tinea pedis , where administration should be twice daily .
Early relief of symptoms is experienced by the majority of patients and clinical improvement may be seen fairly soon after treatment is begun ; however , tinea corporis / cruris and tinea versicolor should be treated for 3 weeks and tinea pedis for 4 weeks to reduce the possibility of recurrence .
If significant clinical improvement is not seen after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment , an alternate diagnosis should be considered .
HOW SUPPLIED EXELDERM ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) CREAM , 1 . 0 % is a smooth , glossy white to off - white cream having a slight characteristic odor .
It is supplied as follows : 60 g tube – NDC 69489 - 711 - 60 Avoid excessive heat , above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
JOURNEY ® MEDICAL CORPORATION Manufactured for : Journey Medical Corp .
Scottsdale , AZ 85258 www . JMCderm . com 141113 Revised March 2021 Principal Display Panel – 60 g Carton Label Exelderm ® ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Cream , 1 . 0 % NDC 69489 - 711 - 60 Net Wt .
60 g JOURNEY MEDICAL CORPORATION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – 60 gram Tube Label Exelderm ® ( sulconazole nitrate , USP ) Cream , 1 . 0 % Avoid excessive heat , above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
NDC 69489 - 711 - 60 Rx only Net Wt .
60 g For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
