Drug Facts Active Ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Purpose Camphor : cough suppressant / topical analgesic Menthol : cough suppressant / topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil : cough suppressant Uses • Use on chest and throat to temporarily relieve cough associated with the common cold • Use on muscles to temporarily relieve minor aches and pains of muscles Warnings Do not use • by mouth • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin • with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma or emphysema When using this product , do not • heat • microwave • add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
• cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions see important warnings under “ When using this product ” • adults and children 2 years and over : • for cough suppression • rub a thick layer on throat & chest • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily or as directed by doctor • for muscle / joint minor aches and pains apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years : do not use Other Information • store at 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients cedar leaf oil , nutmeg oil , paraffin , petrolatum , thymol , turpentine oil Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 351 - 2000 ( 8 : 00 AM – 4 : 30 PM CST ) * This product is not manufactured or distributed by The Procter & Gamble Company .
Vicks ® and VapoRub ® are registered trademarks of the Procter & Gamble Company .
Satisfaction Guaranteed 1 - 800 - 255 - 0711 Distributed by : 7 - Eleven , Inc .
Irving , TX 75063 www . 7 - ELEVEN . com Made in India 1 . 76 oz Jar 24 / 7 Life by 7 - ELEVEN Medicated Chest Rub Cough Suppressant Topical Analgesic Ointment Compare Active Ingredients to VICKS ® VapoRub ® Ointment * NET WT 1 . 76 OZ ( 50 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
