Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone , USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , jewelry , detergents , cosmetics , psoriasis , seborrheic dermatitis , for external genital , feminine and anal itching , other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use for external feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes , do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor , for external anal itching : do not use more than directed unless directed by a doctor , do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if symptoms last for more than 7 days , the condition gets worse , symptoms clear up and occur again in a few days , rectal bleeding occurs , consult doctor promptly Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older * apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age * do not use , consult a doctor .
For external anal itching - Adults : when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water , rinse thoroughly , gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applicaion of this product .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor .
Other information Storage temperature : not to exceed 30 oC ( 86 oF ) .
Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive Ingredients mineral oil , white petrolatum Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tube Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
