A Sugar - Free Systemic Alkalizer DESCRIPTION Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution , USP is a clear stable and cherry flavored systemic alkalizer containing sodium citrate and citric acid in a sugar - free base with cherry flavor .
It is a nonparticulate neutralizing buffer .
Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution USP contains in each teaspoonful ( 5 mL ) : Sodium Citrate Dihydrate , USP 500 mg ( 0 . 34 Molar ) Citric Acid Monohydrate , USP 334 mg ( 0 . 32 Molar ) Each mL contains 1 mEq sodium ion and is equivalent to 1 mEq bicarbonate ( HCO 3 ) .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sorbitol solution , and wild cherry flavor .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium citrate is absorbed and metabolized to sodium bicarbonate , thus acting as a systemic alkalizer .
The effects are essentially those of chlorides before absorption and those of bicarbonates subsequently .
Oxidation is virtually complete so that less than 5 % of sodium citrate is excreted in the urine unchanged .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution , is an effective alkalinizing agent .
It is useful in those conditions where long - term maintenance of an alkaline urine is desirable , and is of value in the alleviation of chronic metabolic acidosis , such as results from chronic renal insufficiency or the syndrome of renal tubular acidosis , especially when the administration of potassium salts is undesirable or contraindicated .
This product is also useful for buffering and neutralizing gastric hydrochloric acid quickly and effectively .
Sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution is concentrated , and when administered after meals and before bedtime , allows one to maintain an alkaline urinary pH around the clock , usually without the necessity of a 2 A . M . dose .
This product alkalinizes the urine without producing a systemic alkalosis in the recommended dosage .
This product is highly palatable , pleasant tasting , and tolerable , even when administered for long periods .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients on sodium - restricted diets or with severe renal impairment .
PRECAUTIONS Sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution should be used with caution by patients with low urinary output unless under the supervision of a physician .
This product should not be administered concurrently with aluminum - based antacids .
Patients should be directed to dilute adequately with water and preferably , to take each dose after meals to avoid saline laxative effect .
Sodium salts should be used cautiously in patients with cardiac failure , hypertension , impaired renal function , peripheral and pulmonary edema , and toxemia of pregnancy .
Periodic examinations and determinations of serum electrolytes , particularly serum bicarbonate level , should be carried out in those patients with renal disease in order to avoid these complications .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution is generally well tolerated , without any unpleasant side effects , when given in recommended doses to patients with normal renal function and urinary output .
However , as with any alkalinizing agent , caution must be used in certain patients with abnormal renal mechanisms to avoid development of alkalosis , especially in the presence of hypocalcemia .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with sodium salts may cause diarrhea , nausea and vomiting , hypernoia , and convulsions .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium citrate and citric acid oral solution should be taken diluted in water , followed by additional water , if desired .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
For Systemic Alkalization Usual Adult Dose 2 to 6 teaspoonfuls ( 10 to 30 mL ) , diluted in 1 to 3 ounces of water , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
Usual Pediatric Dose 1 to 3 teaspoonfuls ( 5 to 15 mL ) , diluted in 1 to 3 ounces of water , after meals and at bedtime , or as directed by a physician .
For children under two years of age , use is based on consultation with a physician .
As a neutralizing buffer 3 teaspoonfuls ( 15 mL ) , diluted with 15 mL water , taken as a single dose , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution , USP ( Colorless liquid with cherry flavor ) is supplied in the following oral dosage form : NDC 62135 - 434 - 47 : 473 mL ( 16 fl oz ) bottle STORAGE : Keep tightly closed .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 째 - 25 째 C ( 68 째 - 77 째 F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Rx ONLY Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC Congers , NY 10920 L71144 Rev . 12 / 2022 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Sodium Citrate and Citric Acid Oral Solution , USP - NDC 62135 - 434 - 47 - 16 fl oz ( 473 mL ) Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
