1 .
INDICATONS AND USAGE OraVerse an alpha adrenergic blocker , is indicated for adult and pediatric patients ages 3 years and older for the reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia , i . e . , anesthesia of the lip and tongue , and the associated functional deficits resulting from an intraoral submucosal injection of a local anesthetic containing a vasoconstrictor .
OraVerse , an alpha adrenergic blocker , is indicated for adult and pediatric patients ages 3 years and older for the reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia , i . e . , anesthesia of the lip and tongue , and the associated functional deficits resulting from an intraoral submucosal injection of a local anesthetic containing a vasoconstrictor .
( 1 ) 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Amount of Local Anesthetic Administered Dose of OraVerse 1 / 4 Cartridge 1 / 4 Cartridge ( 0 . 1 mg ) ½ Cartridge ½ Cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) 1 Cartridge 1 Cartridge ( 0 . 4 mg ) 2 Cartridges 2 Cartridges ( 0 . 8 mg ) OraVerse is administered using the same location ( s ) and same technique ( s ) ( infiltration or block injection ) used for the administration of local anesthetic .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing information The recommended dose of OraVerse is based on the number of cartridges of local anesthetic with vasoconstrictor administered : Amount of Local Anesthetic Administered Dose of OraVerse [ mg ] Dose of OraVerse [ Cartridge ( s ) ] 1 / 4 Cartridge 0 . 1 1 / 4 ½ Cartridge 0 . 2 ½ 1 Cartridge 0 . 4 1 2 Cartridges 0 . 8 2 OraVerse should be administered following the dental procedure using the same location ( s ) and technique ( s ) ( infiltration or block injection ) employed for the administration of the local anesthetic .
Chemically disinfect the carpule cap by wiping with either isopropyl alcohol ( 91 % ) or ethyl alcohol ( 70 % ) .
Many commercially available brands of isopropyl ( rubbing ) alcohol , as well as solutions of ethyl alcohol not of U . S . P . grade , contain denaturants that are injurious to rubber and therefore are not to be used .
Inspect carpules visually prior to administration and do not use if particulate matter , discoloration , cracks in the glass , protruding plungers or other defects are observed .
Note : Do not administer OraVerse if particulate matter , discoloration , cracks in the glass , protruding plungers or other defects are observed .
2 . 2 Dosing in Special Populations In pediatric patients weighing between ≥ 15 kg and < 30 kg , the maximum dose of OraVerse recommend is ½ cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) .
( Note : Use in pediatric patients under 3 years of age or weighing less than15 kg ( 33 lbs ) is not recommended .
A dose of more than 1 cartridge [ 0 . 4 mg ] of OraVerse has not been studied in children less than 4 years of age . )
3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL solution per cartridge 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL solution per cartridge ( 3 ) 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS OraVerse is contraindicated in patients with : Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any ingredients in the formulation OraVerse is contraindicated in patients with : Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any ingredients in the formulation .
( 4 ) 5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular spasm , and cerebrovascular occlusion have been reported to occur following the intravenous or intramuscular administration of phentolamine , usually in association with marked hypotensive episodes or shock - like states which occasionally follow parenteral administration .
Tachycardia and cardiac arrhythmiasmay occur with the use of phentolamine or other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents .
( 5 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Cardiovascular Events Myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular spasm , and cerebrovascular occlusion have been reported to occur following the parenteral administration of phentolamine .
These events usually occurred in association with marked hypotensive episodes producing shock - like states .
Tachycardia and cardiac arrhythmias may occur with the use of phentolamine or other alpha - adrenergic blocking agents .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of OraVerse , clinicians should be alert to the signs and symptoms of these events , particularly in patients with a prior history of cardiovascular disease .
6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , the most common adverse reaction with OraVerse that was greater than the control group was injection site pain .
The most common adverse reaction with OraVerse ( incidence ≥ 5 % and > control ) is injection - site pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Septodont at 1 - 888 - 888 - 1441 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Dental patients were administered a dose of either 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 or 0 . 8 mg of OraVerse .
The majority of adverse reactions were mild and resolved within 48 hours .
There were no serious adverse reactions and no discontinuations due to adverse reactions .
Table 1 lists adverse reactions where the frequency was greater than or equal to 3 % in any OraVerse dose group and was equal to or exceeded that of the control group .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions with Frequency Greater Than or Equal to 3 % and Equal to or Exceeding ControlAdverse Event OraVerse Control 0 . 2 mg ( N = 83 ) 0 . 4 mg ( N = 284 ) 0 . 8 mg ( N = 51 ) Total ( N = 418 ) Total ( N = 359 ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) N ( % ) Patients with AEs 15 ( 18 ) 82 ( 29 ) 20 ( 39 ) 117 ( 28 ) 96 ( 27 ) Tachycardia 0 ( 0 ) 17 ( 6 ) 2 ( 4 ) 19 ( 5 ) 20 ( 6 ) Bradycardia 0 ( 0 ) 5 ( 2 ) 2 ( 4 ) 7 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 . 3 ) Injection site pain 5 ( 6 ) 15 ( 5 ) 2 ( 4 ) 22 ( 5 ) 14 ( 4 ) Post procedural pain 3 ( 4 ) 17 ( 6 ) 5 ( 10 ) 25 ( 6 ) 23 ( 6 ) Headache 0 ( 0 ) 10 ( 4 ) 3 ( 6 ) 13 ( 3 ) 14 ( 4 ) An examination of population subgroups did not reveal a differential adverse reaction incidence on the basis of age , gender , or race .
Results from the pain assessments in Study 1 and Study 2 , involving mandibular and maxillary procedures , respectively , indicated that the majority of dental patients in both OraVerse and control groups experienced no or mild oral pain , with less than 10 % of patients in each group reporting moderate oral pain with a similar distribution between the OraVerse and control groups .
No patient experienced severe pain in these studies .
Study 4 included 150 pediatric patients between 2 - 5 years of age who received a dose of either ¼ cartridge ( 0 . 1 mg ) , ½ cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) or 1 cartridge ( 0 . 4 mg ) of OraVerse or sham injection ( placebo ) .
Safety in patients in Study 4 was similar to safety in older patients described above .
Post - procedural revealed that oral pain was reported in the OraVerse group with a higher frequency ( 10 . 1 % ) than the placebo group ( 3 . 9 % ) .
The proportion of patients in the OraVerse and placebo groups was comparable with respect to the highest severity of pain experienced : 30 . 4 % of OraVerse patients and 30 % of placebo patients reported no pain ; 43 . 1 % of OraVerse patients and 45 . 0 % of placebo patients reported mild pain ; 19 . 0 % of OraVerse subjects and 17 . 5 % of placebo patients reported moderate pain ; and 15 . 2 % of OraVerse patients and 15 . 0 % of placebo patients reported severe pain .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials Adverse reactions reported by less than 3 % but at least 2 dental patients receiving OraVerse and occurring at a greater incidence than those receiving control , included diarrhea , facial swelling , increased blood pressure / hypertension , injection site reactions , jaw pain , oral pain , paresthesia , pruritus , tenderness , upper abdominal pain and vomiting .
The majority of these adverse reactions were mild and resolved within 48 hours .
The few reports of paresthesia were mild and transient and resolved during the same time period .
6 . 3 Post Marketing Adverse Reactions Reports from Literature and Other Sources The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval parenteral use of phentolamine mesylate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Acute and prolonged hypotensive episodes and cardiac arrhythmias have been reported with the use of phentolamine .
In addition , weakness , dizziness , flushing , orthostatic hypotension , and nasal stuffiness have occurred .
7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions with OraVerse .
7 . 1 Lidocaine and Epinephrine When OraVerse was administered as an intraoral submucosal injection 30 minutes after injection of a local anesthetic , 2 % lidocaine HCl with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine , the lidocaine concentration increased immediately after OraVerse intraoral injection .
Lidocaine AUC and Cmax values were not affected by administration of OraVerse .
OraVerse administration did not affect the PK of epinephrine .
8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Use in pediatric patients less than 3 years of age or < 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) has not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) • In pediatric patients weighing at least 10 kg ( 22 lbs ) , the maximum dose of OraVerse recommended is 1 / 4 cartridge ( 0 . 1 mg ) .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Risk summary There are no available data with OraVerse in pregnant women to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
In animal toxicology studies , phentolamine administered orally to pregnant mice and rats during the period of organogenesis resulted in skeletal immaturity and decreased growth in the offspring at doses at least 24 - times the recommended dose .
Additionally , a lower rate of implantation was seen in pregnant rats treated with phentolamine at least 60 - times the recommended dose .
No malformations or embryofetal deaths were observed in the offspring of pregnant mice , rats , and rabbits administered phentolamine during the period of organogenesis at doses 24 - , 60 - , and 20 - times , respectively , the recommended dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of phentolamine to pregnant rats and mice at doses at least 24 - times the recommended dose ( based on a mg / m2 comparison with a 60 kg human ) resulted in slightly decreased growth and slight skeletal immaturity of the fetuses .
Immaturity was manifested by increased incidence of incomplete or unossified calcanei and phalangeal nuclei of the hind limb and of incompletely ossified sternebrae .
At oral phentolamine doses at least 60 - times the recommended dose ( based on a mg / m2 comparison with a 60 kg human ) , a slightly lower rate of implantation was found in the rat .
Phentolamine did not affect embryonic or fetal development in the rabbit at oral doses at least 20 - times the recommended dose ( based on a mg / m2 comparison with a 60 kg human ) .
No malformations or embryofetal deaths were observed in the rat , mouse or rabbit studies .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of phentolamine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for OraVerse and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from OraVerse , or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of OraVerse has not been established in patients younger than 3 years .
The safety and effectiveness of OraVerse in pediatric patients ages 3 years and older is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of OraVerse in adults , with additional adequate and well - controlled studies of OraVerse in pediatric patients ages 12 - 17 years old [ Studies 1 ( mandibular procedures ) and 2 ( maxillary procedures ) ] , ages 6 - 11 years old [ Study 3 ( mandibular and maxillary procedures ) ] , and another study in patients ages 2 - 5 years [ Study 4 ] .
Study 4 assessed safety and effectiveness in patients 4 to 5 years , but was not designed to demonstrate efficacy .
Use in patients 3 to < 4 years is supported by similar pharmacokinetics and safety in these patients compared with older pediatric patients ( see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Use of OraVerse in this age group ( 3 to < 4 years ) is also supported by the similarity in the exposure response of OraVerse for pediatric and adult patients , and the adequacy of the safety database for patients age ≥ 3 .
The safety database for patients age < 3 is limited , and therefore , use in patients age < 3 is not recommended .
Dosages in pediatric patients may need to be limited based on body weight .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] 8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of OraVerse , 55 were 65 and over , while 21 were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE No deaths due to acute poisoning with phentolamine have been reported .
Overdosage with parenterally administered phentolamine is characterized chiefly by cardiovascular disturbances , such as arrhythmias , tachycardia , hypotension , and possibly shock .
In addition , the following might occur : excitation , headache , sweating , pupillary contraction , visual disturbances , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , or hypoglycemia .
There is no specific antidote ; treatment consists of appropriate monitoring and supportive care .
Substantial decreases in blood pressure or other evidence of shock - like conditions should be treated vigorously and promptly .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Phentolamine mesylate is phenol , 3 - [ [ ( 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 H - imidazol - 2 - yl ) methyl ] ( 4 - methyl - phenyl ) amino ] - , methanesulfonate ( salt ) , a non - specific alpha adrenergic blocker .
Phentolamine mesylate USP is a white to off - white , odorless crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 377 . 46 .
It is sparingly soluble in water , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform .
The empirical formulation is C17H19N3O • CH4O3S , and the chemical structure is : OraVerse ( phentolamine mesylate ) Injection is a clear , colorless , sterile , non pyrogenic , isotonic , preservative free solution .
Each 1 . 7 mL cartridge contains 0 . 4 mg phentolamine mesylate , D - mannitol , edetate disodium , and sodium acetate .
Either acetic acid or sodium hydroxide is used as necessary to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which OraVerse accelerates reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia and the associated functional deficits is not fully understood .
Phentolamine mesylate , the active ingredient in OraVerse , produces an alpha - adrenergic block of relatively short duration resulting in vasodilatation when applied to vascular smooth muscle .
In an animal model , OraVerse increased local blood flow in submucosal tissue of the dog when given after an intraoral injection of lidocaine 2 % with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Following OraVerse administration , phentolamine is 100 % available from the submucosal injection site and peak concentrations are achieved 10 - 20 minutes after injection .
Phentolamine systemic exposure increased linearly after 0 . 8 mg compared to 0 . 4 mg OraVerse intraoral submucosal injection .
The terminal elimination half - life of phentolamine in the blood was approximately 2 - 3 hours .
Pediatrics Following OraVerse administration , the phentolamine Cmax was higher ( approximately 3 . 5 - fold ) in children who weighed between 15 and 30 kg ( 33 and 66 lbs ) than in children who weighed more than 30 kg .
However , phentolamine AUC was similar between the two groups .
It is recommended that in children weighing 15 - 30 kg , the maximum dose of OraVerse should be limited to ½ cartridge ( 0 . 2 mg ) ( see Dosage and Administration section ) .
The pharmacokinetics of OraVerse in adults and in children who weighed more than 30 kg ( 66 lbs ) are similar after intraoral submucosal injection .
OraVerse has not been studied in children under 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) .
The pharmacokinetics of OraVerse after administration of more than 1 cartridge ( 0 . 4 mg ) has not been studied in children .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenic studies with OraVerse have not been conducted .
Mutagenesis Phentolamine was not mutagenic in the in - vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay .
In the in - vitro chromosomal aberration study in Chinese hamster ovary cells , numerical aberrations were slightly increased after a 4 - hour exposure to phentolamine without metabolic activation and structural aberrations were slightly increased after a 4 - hour exposure to phentolamine with metabolic activation only at the highest concentrations tested , but neither numerical nor structural aberrations were increased after a 20 - hour exposure without metabolic activation .
Phentolamine was not clastogenic in two in - vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
Impairment of Fertility The effect of phentolamine on female fertility has not been studied .
Male rats treated with oral phentolamine for nine weeks ( four weeks prior to mating , 3 weeks during the mating period and 2 weeks after mating ) were mated with untreated females .
At doses up to 143 - times human therapeutic exposure levels at the Cmax , no adverse effects on male fertility parameters or on reproductive parameters in the untreated females mated with the treated males were observed .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of OraVerse when used for reversal of soft - tissue anesthesia ( STA ) , i . e . , anesthesia of the lips and tongue following a dental procedure that required local anesthesia containing a vasoconstrictor , were evaluated in the following clinical studies .
OraVerse - induced reversal of local anesthetic effects on the teeth , mandible and maxilla has not been assessed .
Two Phase 3 , double - blinded , randomized , multi - center , controlled studies were conducted in dental patients who had mandibular ( Study 1 ) or maxillary ( Study 2 ) restorative or periodontal maintenance procedures and who had received a local anesthetic that contained a vasoconstrictor .
The primary endpoint was time to normal lip sensation as measured by patient reported responses to lip palpation .
The secondary endpoints included patients ' perception of altered function , sensation and appearance , and their actual functional deficits in smiling , speaking , drinking and drooling , as assessed by both the patient and an observer blinded to the treatment .
In the mandibular study , the time to recovery of tongue sensation was also a secondary endpoint .
Patients were stratified by type and amount of anesthetic administered .
OraVerse was administered at a cartridge ratio of 1 : 1 to local anesthetic .
The control was a sham injection .
OraVerse reduced the median time to recovery of normal sensation in the lower lip by 85 minutes ( 55 % ) compared to control .
The median time to recovery of normal sensation in the upper lip was reduced by 83 minutes ( 62 % ) .
The differences between these times for both studies are depicted in Kaplan - Meier plots for time to normal lip sensation in Figures 1 and 2 .
Within 1 hour after administration of OraVerse , 41 % of patients reported normal lower lip sensation as compared to 7 % in the control group , and 59 % of patients in the OraVerse group reported normal upper lip sensation as compared to 12 % in the control group .
Figure 1 : Kaplan - Meier Plot of Time to Recovery of Normal Sensation in the Lower Lip ( ITT Analysis Data Set ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Kaplan - Meier Plot of Time to Recovery of Normal Sensation in the Upper Lip ( ITT Analysis Data Set ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] In Study 1 ( mandibular ) , OraVerse accelerated : a ) the recovery of the perception of normal appearance and function by 60 minutes ( 40 % ) , b ) the recovery of normal function by 60 minutes ( 50 % ) , and c ) the recovery of normal sensation in the tongue by 65 minutes ( 52 % ) .
In Study 2 ( maxillary ) , the recovery of the perception of normal appearance and function was reduced by 60 minutes ( 50 % ) and the recovery of normal function was reduced by 45 minutes ( 43 % ) .
Study 3 , a pediatric , Phase 2 , double - blinded , randomized , multi - center , controlled study was conducted in dental patients who had received 2 % lidocaine with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine .
Dental patients ( n = 152 , ages 4 - 11 years ) received 1 / 2 cartridge of OraVerse if they weighed ≥ 15 kg but < 30 kg , and one - half or one full cartridge if they weighed ≥ 30 kg at a cartridge ratio of 1 : 1 to local anesthetic .
The median time to normal lip sensation in patients 6 to 11 years of age who were trainable in the lip - palpation procedures , for mandibular and maxillary procedures combined , was reduced by 75 minutes ( 56 % ) .
Within 1 hour after administration of OraVerse , 44 patients ( 61 % ) reported normal lip sensation , while 9 patients ( 21 % ) randomized to the control group reported normal lip sensation .
In this study , neither the patients ' perception of their appearance or ability to function nor their actual ability to function was evaluated .
Study 4 , a pediatric , Phase 4 , double - blinded , randomized , multi - center , controlled study was conducted in dental patients undergoing mandibular and maxillary procedures after receiving 2 % lidocaine with 1 : 100 , 000 epinephrine .
Patients 2 - 5 years of age received sham injection ( n = 51 ) or 1 / 4 cartridge of OraVerse if they weighed ≥ 10 kg but < 15 kg ( n = 5 ) , 1 / 2 cartridge if they weighed ≥ 15 kg but < 30 kg ( n = 91 ) , and a full cartridge if they weighed > 30 kg ( n = 3 ) .
This study was not designed to demonstrate efficacy .
The median time to normal lip sensation in patients 4 and 5 years of age who were trainable in the lip - palpation procedure , for mandibular and maxillary procedures combined , was reduced by 48 minutes ( 44 % ) .
Within 2 hours after administration of OraVerse , 57 patients ( 80 % ) reported normal lip sensation , while 19 patients ( 51 % ) randomized to the sham injection group reported normal lip sensation .
There were no significant differences between OraVerse and sham injection for time to return of normal function in pediatric functional assessment battery and time to recovery of normal tongue sensation ( for mandibular procedures only ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING OraVerse ( phentolamine mesylate ) Injection 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL is supplied in a dental cartridge , in cartons of 10 and 50 cartridges .
Each cartridge is individually packaged in a separate compartment of a 10 cartridge blister pack .
NDC 0362 - 0101 - 50 NDC 0362 - 0101 - 10 Store at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) with brief excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) Protect from direct heat and light .
Do not permit to freeze .
Manufactured by Novocol Pharmaceutical of Canada , Inc .
Cambridge , Ontario , Canada for Septodont , Inc Louisville , CO 80027 US Patent Nos . : 6 , 764 , 678 ; 6 , 872 , 390 ; 7 , 229 , 630 Trademark of Septodont Holdings SAS 17 .
PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Patients should be instructed not to eat or drink until normal sensation returns .
septodont Rev . 03 / 16 ( 2604 - 5 ) PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 pack of 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL Carton NDC 0362 - 0101 - 10 OraVerse ™ ( Phentolamine Mesylate ) Injection 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL For Intraoral Submucosal Injection Only 10 x 0 . 4 mg / 1 . 7 mL septodont Distributed by Septodont , Inc .
Louisville , CO , 80027 Made in Canada by Novocol Pharmaceutical of Canada , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
