Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 15 . 0 % , Octinoxate 2 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % , Octocrylene 10 % , Oxybenzone 6 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only FLAMMABLE : • do not use near heat , flame or while smoking • avoid long term storage above 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
• do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask doctor if • rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • hold can 4 - 6 inches away from body , spray evenly to ensure complete coverage • do not spray into face .
Spray into hand and apply to face .
• use in well ventilated , but not windy areas • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other Information • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain or damage some fabrics , materials or surfaces Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , ethylhexyl methoxycrylene , PEG - 15 cocamine , glycerin , diethylhexyl syringylidenemalonate , tocopherol ( vitamin E ) fragrance , retinyl palmitate ( vitamin A palmitate ) , caprylic / capric triglyceride .
Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
