DESCRIPTION Methenamine mandelate , a urinary antibacterial agent , is the chemical combination of mandelic acid with methenamine .
Methenamine mandelate is available for oral use as film - coated tablets .
Methenamine mandelate tablets contain 500 mg and 1000 mg ( 1 g ) methenamine mandelate and the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , FD & C blue # 2 aluminum lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , silicon dioxide , talc and titanium dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Methenamine mandelate is readily absorbed but remains essentially inactive until it is excreted by the kidneys and concentrated in the urine .
An acid urine is essential for antibacterial action , with maximum efficacy occurring at pH 5 . 5 or less .
In an acid urine , mandelic acid exerts its antibacterial action and also contributes to the acidification of the urine .
Mandelic acid is excreted both by glomerular filtration and tubular excretion .
The methenamine component is hydrolyzed in acid urine to ammonia and to the bactericidal agent formaldehyde .
Proportionally less formaldehyde is released as urinary pH approaches 6 . 0 and insufficient quantities are released above this level for therapeutic response .
There is equally effective antibacterial activity against both gram - positive and gram - negative organisms , since the antibacterial action of mandelic acid and formaldehyde is nonspecific .
There are reports that methenamine mandelate is ineffective in some infections with Proteus vulgaris and urea - splitting strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and A . aerogenes .
Since urea - splitting strains may raise the pH of the urine , particular attention to supplementary acidification with agents such as ascorbic acid , and urinary pH monitoring is required .
However , results in any single case will depend to a large extent on the underlying pathology and the overall management .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methenamine mandelate is indicated for the suppression or elimination of bacteriuria associated with pyelonephritis , cystitis , and other chronic urinary tract infections ; also those neurologic diseases leading to an infected residual urine .
When used as recommended , methenamine mandelate is particularly suitable for long - term therapy because of its safety and because resistance to the nonspecific bactericidal action of formaldehyde does not develop .
Pathogens resistant to other antibacterial agents may respond to methenamine mandelate because of the nonspecific effect of formaldehyde formed in an acid urine .
Prophylactic Use Rationale : Urine is a good culture medium for many urinary pathogens .
Inoculation by a few organisms ( relapse or reinfection ) may lead to bacteriuria in susceptible individuals .
Thus , the rationale of management in recurring urinary tract infection ( bacteriuria ) is to change the urine from a growth - supporting to a growth - inhibiting medium .
There is a growing body of evidence that long - term administration of methenamine mandelate can prevent the recurrence of bacteriuria in patients with chronic pyelonephritis .
Therapeutic Use Rationale : Methenamine mandelate helps to sterilize the urine , and in some situations in which underlying pathologic conditions prevent sterilization by any means , it can help to suppress the bacteriuria .
Methenamine mandelate should not be used alone for acute infections with parenchymal involvement causing systemic symptoms such as chills and fever .
A thorough diagnostic investigation as a part of the overall management of the urinary tract infection should accompany the use of methenamine mandelate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Methenamine mandelate tablets are contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency , severe hepatic disease , severe dehydration , and in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to any components of this product .
WARNINGS Methenamine mandelate should be avoided in patients with gout because it may precipitate urate crystals in their urine .
A similar situation may arise in patients with a predisposition to the formation of uric acid stones .
Methenamine preparations should not be given to patients taking sulfonamides because some sulfonamides may form an insoluble precipitate with formaldehyde in the urine .
PRECAUTIONS General Dysuria may occur ( usually at higher than recommended dosage ) .
This can be controlled by reducing the dosage and the acidification .
When urine acidification is contraindicated or unattainable ( as with some urea - splitting bacteria ) , the drug is not recommended .
Large doses of methenamine ( 8 g daily for 3 to 4 weeks ) have caused bladder irritation , painful and frequent micturition , albuminuria , and gross hematuria .
Information for Patients To assure an acidic pH , patients should be instructed to restrict or avoid milk products and antacids containing sodium carbonate or bicarbonate .
Laboratory Tests As with all urinary tract infections , the efficacy of therapy should be monitored by repeated urine cultures .
Urinary pH monitoring is required to assure an acidic urinary pH ( below 5 . 5 ) .
Drug Interactions Formaldehyde and sulfamethizole form an insoluble precipitate in acid urine ; therefore , methenamine mandelate should not be administered concurrently with sulfamethizole or other sulfonamides .
Concurrent use of salicylates may lead to increased serum salicylate levels since excretion of salicylates is reduced in acidified urine .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Formaldehyde interferes with fluorometric procedures for determination of urinary catecholamines and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) , causing erroneously high results .
Formaldehyde also causes falsely decreased urine estriol levels by reacting with estriol when acid hydrolysis techniques are used ; estriol determinations which use enzymatic hydrolysis are unaffected by formaldehyde .
Formaldehyde causes falsely elevated 17 - hydroxycorticosteroid levels when the Porter - Silber method is used and falsely decreased 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5 HIAA ) levels by inhibiting color development when nitrosonaphthol methods are used .
CARCINOGENESIS and MUTAGENESIS Methenamine mandelate has not been evaluated for carcinogenicity or mutagenicity .
Methenamine was evaluated for mutagenicity in the Ames Salmonella / mammalian microsome test .
Five strains of Salmonella typhimurium ( TA98 , TA100 , TA1535 , TA1537 and TA1538 ) and a strain of Escherichia coli ( WP2uvrA ) were used .
At a dose of 10 , 000 μg / plate methenamine showed mutagenic activity in Salmonella typhimurium TA98 and TA100 by metabolic activation and also showed mutagenic activity in TA98 without microsomal activation .
In one large study , no evidence of carcinogenicity was found following long - term oral administration of methenamine 1 . 25 g / kg / day to rats ( 104 weeks ) and mice ( 60 weeks ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects . Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with methenamine mandelate .
It is also not known whether methenamine mandelate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Since methenamine is known to cross the placental barrier , methenamine mandelate should be given to a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit outweighs the risk .
Nursing Mothers Methenamine is excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal disturbances ( nausea , stomach upset ) , generalized skin rash , dysuria , painful or difficult urination may occur occasionally with the use of methenamine preparations .
Microscopic and rarely , gross hematuria have been described .
OVERDOSAGE Minimize absorption by inducing vomiting or by gastric lavage followed by administration of activated charcoal .
Administer orally fluids and alkalinize with sodium bicarbonate .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The average adult dose is 4 g a day given as one 1000 mg tablet or two 500 mg tablets after each meal and at bedtime .
Children 6 to 12 years of age should receive half the adult dose ; one 500 mg tablet , 4 times a day .
HOW SUPPLIED Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 500 mg are blue , unscored , oval , film - coated , debossed with " CE 34 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Supplied in bottles of 60 ( NDC 62135 - 200 - 60 ) Supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 62135 - 200 - 01 ) Supplied in bottles of 120 ( NDC 62135 - 200 - 12 ) Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 1000 mg ( 1 g ) are blue , unscored , oval , film - coated , debossed with " CE 35 " on one side and plain on the other side .
Supplied in bottles of 60 ( NDC 62135 - 201 - 60 ) Supplied in bottles of 100 ( NDC 62135 - 201 - 01 ) Supplied in bottles of 120 ( NDC 62135 - 201 - 12 ) Preserve in well - closed containers Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Chartwell RX LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 Made in USA L70516 Rev . 09 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 500 mg - NDC 62135 - 200 - 60 - 60 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 500 mg - NDC 62135 - 200 - 01 - 100 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 500 mg - NDC 62135 - 200 - 12 - 120 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 1000 mg - NDC 62135 - 201 - 60 - 60 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 1000 mg - NDC 62135 - 201 - 01 - 100 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methenamine Mandelate Tablets , USP 1000 mg - NDC 62135 - 201 - 12 - 120 Tablets Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
