DESCRIPTION Hydrocortisone is a white to practically white , odorless , crystalline powder , very slightly soluble in water .
It has the chemical name Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 , 21 - tri - hydroxy , ( 11β ) - and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 21 H 30 O 5 M . W . 362 . 47 Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP is a convenient disposable single - dose hydrocortisone enema designed for ease of self - administration .
Each disposable unit ( 60 mL ) contains : Hydrocortisone , 100 mg in an aqueous solution containing carbomer 934 P , polysorbate 80 , purified water , sodium hydroxide and methylparaben , 0 . 18 % as a preservative .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocortisone is a naturally occurring glucocorticoid ( adrenal corticosteroid ) , similar to its acetate and sodium hemisuccinate derivatives , is partially absorbed following rectal administration .
Absorption studies in ulcerative colitis patients have shown up to 50 % absorption of hydrocortisone administered as Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP and up to 30 % of hydrocortisone acetate administered in an identical vehicle .
Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP provides the potent anti - inflammatory effect of hydrocortisone .
Because this drug is absorbed from the colon , it acts both topically and systemically .
Although rectal hydrocortisone , used as recommended for Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP , has a low incidence of reported adverse reactions , prolonged use presumably may cause systemic reactions associated with oral dosage forms .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of ulcerative colitis , especially distal forms , including ulcerative proctitis , ulcerative proctosigmoiditis , and left - sided ulcerative colitis .
It has proved useful also in some cases involving the transverse and ascending colons .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Systemic fungal infections ; and ileocolostomy during the immediate or early post - operative period .
WARNINGS In severe ulcerative colitis , it is hazardous to delay needed surgery while awaiting response to medical treatment .
Damage to the rectal wall can result from careless or improper insertion of an enema tip .
In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to unusual stress , increased dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before , during , and after the stressful situation is indicated .
Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection , and new infections may appear during their use .
There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize infection when corticosteroids are used .
Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts , glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves , and may enhance the establishment of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses .
Usage in pregnancy : Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids , the use of these drugs in pregnancy , nursing mothers or women of child - bearing potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus .
Neonates born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroid during pregnancy should be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Average and large doses of hydrocortisone or cortisone can cause elevation of blood pressure , salt and water retention , and increased excretion of potassium .
These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except when used in large doses .
Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation may be necessary .
All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion .
While on corticosteroid therapy , patients should not be vaccinated against smallpox .
Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients who are on corticosteroids , especially on high dose , because of possible hazards of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response .
Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals .
Chicken pox and measles , for example , can have a more serious or even fatal course in non - immune pediatric patients or adults on corticosteroids .
In such pediatric patients or adults who have not had these diseases , particular care should be taken to avoid exposure .
How the dose , route and duration of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known .
The contribution of the underlying disease and / or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known .
If exposed to chicken pox , prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin ( VZIG ) may be indicated .
If exposed to measles , prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin ( IG ) may be indicated .
( See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information . )
If chicken pox develops , treatment with antiviral agents may be considered .
If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin reactivity , close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may occur .
During prolonged corticosteroid therapy , these patients should receive chemoprophylaxis .
PRECAUTIONS General : Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP should be used with caution where there is a probability of impending perforation , abscess or other pyogenic infection ; fresh intestinal anastomoses ; obstruction ; or extensive fistulas and sinus tracts .
Use with caution in presence of active or latent peptic ulcer ; diverticulitis ; renal insufficiency ; hypertension ; osteoporosis ; and myasthenia gravis .
Steroid therapy might impair prognosis in surgery by increasing the hazard of infection .
If infection is suspected , appropriate antibiotic therapy must be administered , usually in larger than ordinary doses .
Drug - induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may occur with prolonged Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP therapy .
This is minimized by gradual reduction of dosage .
This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months after discontinuation of therapy ; therefore , in any situation of stress occurring during that period , hormone therapy should be reinstituted .
Since mineralocorticoid secretion may be impaired , salt and / or a mineralocorticoid should be administered concurrently .
There is an enhanced effect of corticosteroids on patients with hypothyroidism and in those with cirrhosis .
Corticosteroid should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex because of possible corneal perforation .
The lowest possible dose of corticosteroid should be used to control the conditions under treatment , and when reduction in dosage is possible , the reduction should be gradual .
Psychic derangement may appear when corticosteroids are used , ranging from euphoria , insomnia , mood swings , personality changes , and severe depression , to frank psychotic manifestations .
Also , existing emotional instability or psychotic tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids .
Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Growth and development of pediatric patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should be carefully observed .
Information for Patients : Persons who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles .
Patients should also be advised that if they are exposed , medical advice should be sought without delay .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Local pain or burning , and rectal bleeding attributed to Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP have been reported rarely .
Apparent exacerbations or sensitivity reactions also occur rarely .
The following adverse reactions should be kept in mind whenever corticosteroids are given by rectal administration .
Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances : Sodium retention ; fluid retention ; congestive heart failure in susceptible patients ; potassium loss ; hypokalemic alkalosis ; hypertension .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle weakness ; steroid myopathy ; loss of muscle mass ; osteoporosis ; vertebral compression fractures ; asceptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads ; pathologic fracture of long bones .
Gastrointestinal : Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage ; pancreatitis ; abdominal distention ; ulcerative esophagitis .
Dermatologic : impaired wound healing ; thin fragile skin ; petechiae and ecchymoses ; facial erythema ; increased sweating ; may suppress reactions to skin tests .
Neurological : Convulsions ; increased intracranial pressure with papilledema ( pseudo - tumor cerebri ) usually after treatment ; vertigo ; headache .
Endocrine : Menstrual irregularities ; development of Cushingoid state ; suppression of growth in pediatric patients ; secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness , particularly in times of stress , as in trauma , surgery or illness , decreased carbohydrate tolerance ; manifestations of latent diabetes requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics .
Ophthalmic : Posterior subcapsular cataracts ; increased intraocular pressure ; glaucoma ; exophthalmos .
Metabolic : Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The use of Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP Hydrocortisone retention enema is predicated upon the concomitant use of modern supportive measures such as rational dietary control , sedatives , antidiarrheal agents , antibacterial therapy , blood replacement if necessary , etc .
The usual course of therapy is one Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP nightly for 21 days , or until the patient comes into remission both clinically and proctologically .
Clinical symptoms usually subside promptly within 3 to 5 days .
Improvement in the appearance of the mucosa , as seen by sigmoidoscopic examination , may lag somewhat behind clinical improvement .
Difficult cases may require as long as 2 or 3 months of Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP treatment .
Where the course of therapy extends beyond 21 days , Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP should be discontinued gradually by reducing administration to every other night for 2 or 3 weeks .
If clinical or proctologic improvement fails to occur within 2 or 3 weeks after starting Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP , discontinue its use .
Symptomatic improvement , evidenced by decreased diarrhea and bleeding ; weight gain ; improved appetite ; lessened fever ; and decrease in leukocytosis , may be misleading and should not be used as the sole criterion in judging efficacy .
Sigmoidoscopic examination and X - ray visualization are essential for adequate monitoring of ulcerative colitis .
Biopsy is useful for differential diagnosis .
Patient instructions for administering Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP are enclosed in each box .
It is recommended that the patient lie on their left side during administration and for 30 minutes thereafter , so that the fluid will distribute throughout the left colon .
Every effort should be made to retain the enema for at least an hour and preferably , all night .
This may be facilitated by prior sedation and / or antidiarrheal medication , especially early in therapy when the urge to evacuate is great .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP ( Retention ) 100 mg / 60 mL , is supplied as disposable single - dose bottles with lubricated rectal applicator tips , in boxes of seven x 60 mL ( NDC 62135 - 020 - 07 ) , boxes of one x 60 mL ( NDC 62135 - 020 - 46 ) and boxes of three x seven x 60 mL ( NDC 62135 - 020 - 21 ) .
Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Rx Only Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 Made in USA L70536 Rev : 10 / 2021 PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS How to use the retention enema : Best results are achieved if the bowel is emptied immediately before the enema is given .
1 Preparing the Medication for Administration a Shake the bottle well to make sure that the suspension is homogeneous .
b Remove the protective sheath from the applicator tip .
Hold the bottle at the neck so as not to cause any of the medication to be discharged .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 Assuming the Correct Body Position a Best results are obtained by lying on left side with the left leg extended and the right leg flexed forward for balance .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] b An alternative to lying on the left side is the " knee - chest " position as shown here .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 Administering the Retention Enema a Gently insert the lubricated applicator tip into the rectum , pointed slightly toward the navel ( umbilicus ) .
b Grasp the bottle firmly , then tilt slightly so that the nozzle is aimed toward the back , and squeeze slowly to instill the medication .
Steady hand pressure will discharge most of the solution .
After administering , withdraw and discard the used unit .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] c Remain in position for at least 30 minutes to allow thorough distribution of the medication internally .
Retain the enema all night , if possible .
Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 Made in USA L70536 Rev : 10 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP ( Retention ) 100 mg / 60 ml - NDC 62135 - 020 - 46 - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP ( Retention ) 100 mg / 60 ml - NDC 62135 - 020 - 46 - Container [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP ( Retention ) 100 mg / 60 ml - Unit Dose 7 x 60 ml - NDC 62135 - 020 - 07 - Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Rectal Suspension , USP ( Retention ) 100 mg / 60 ml - 3 Cartons of 7 x 60 ml - NDC 62135 - 020 - 21 - Container [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
