Description Griseofulvin is an antibiotic derived from a species of Penicillium .
Each 5 mL of Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP contains 125 mg of griseofulvin ( microsize ) and also contains alcohol ( 0 . 2 % ) , docusate sodium , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , magnesium aluminum silicate , menthol , methylparaben , orange cream flavors , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , saccharin sodium , simethicone emulsion , sodium alginate and sucrose .
Clinical Pharmacology Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP acts systemically to inhibit the growth of Trichophyton , Microsporum , and Epidermophyton genera of fungi .
Fungistatic amounts are deposited in the keratin , which is gradually exfoliated and replaced by noninfected tissue .
Griseofulvin absorption from the gastrointestinal tract varies considerably among individuals , mainly because of insolubility of the drug in aqueous media of the upper G . I . tract .
The peak serum level found in fasting adults given 0 . 5 gm occurs at about four hours and ranges between 0 . 5 and 2 . 0 mcg / mL .
It should be noted that some individuals are consistently " poor absorbers " and tend to attain lower blood levels at all times .
This may explain unsatisfactory therapeutic results in some patients .
Better blood levels can probably be attained in most patients if griseofulvin is administered after a meal with a high fat content .
Indications and Usage Major indications for Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP are : Tinea capitis ( ringworm of the scalp ) Tinea corporis ( ringworm of the body ) Tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) Tinea unguium ( onychomycosis ; ringworm of the nails ) Tinea cruris ( ringworm of the thigh ) Tinea barbae ( barber ’ s itch ) Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP inhibits the growth of those genera of fungi that commonly cause ringworm infections of the hair , skin , and nails , such as : Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton tonsurans Trichophyton mentagrophytes Trichophyton interdigitalis Trichophyton verrucosum Trichophyton sulphureum Trichophyton schoenleini Microsporum audouini Microsporum canis Microsporum gypseum Epidermophyton floccosum Trichophyton megnini Trichophyton gallinae Trichophyton crateriform Note : Prior to therapy , the type of fungi responsible for the infection should be identified .
The use of the drug is not justified in minor or trivial infections which will respond to topical antifungal agents alone .
It is not effective in : Bacterial infections Candidiasis ( Moniliasis ) Histoplasmosis Actinomycosis Sporotrichosis Chromoblastomycosis Coccidioidomycosis North American Blastomycosis Cryptococcosis ( Torulosis ) Tinea versicolor Nocardiosis Contraindications This drug is contraindicated in patients with porphyria , hepatocellular failure , and in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to griseofulvin .
Two cases of conjoined twins have been reported in patients taking griseofulvin during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Griseofulvin should not be prescribed to pregnant patients .
Warnings Prophylactic Usage : Safety and efficacy of prophylactic use of this drug has not been established .
Chronic feeding of griseofulvin , at levels ranging from 0 . 5 - 2 . 5 % of the diet , resulted in the development of liver tumors in several strains of mice , particularly in males .
Smaller particle sizes result in an enhanced effect .
Lower oral dosage levels have not been tested .
Subcutaneous administration of relatively small doses of griseofulvin once a week during the first three weeks of life has also been reported to induce hepatomata in mice .
Although studies in other animal species have not yielded evidence of tumorigenicity , these studies were not of adequate design to form a basis for conclusions in this regard .
In subacute toxicity studies , orally administered griseofulvin produced hepatocellular necrosis in mice , but this has not been seen in other species .
Disturbances in porphyrin metabolism have been reported in griseofulvin - treated laboratory animals .
Griseofulvin has been reported to have a colchicine - like effect on mitosis and cocarcinogenicity with methylcholanthrene in cutaneous tumor induction in laboratory animals .
Reports of animal studies in the Soviet literature state that a griseofulvin preparation was found to be embryotoxic and teratogenic on oral administration to pregnant Wistar rats .
Rat reproduction studies done in the United States and Great Britain were inconclusive in this regard .
Pups with abnormalities have been reported in the litters of a few bitches treated with griseofulvin .
Because the potential for adverse effects on the human fetus cannot be ruled out , additional contraceptive precautions should be taken during treatment with griseofulvin and for a month after termination of treatment .
Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP should not be prescribed to women intending to become pregnant within one month following cessation of therapy .
Suppression of spermatogenesis has been reported to occur in rats but investigation in man failed to confirm this .
Griseofulvin interferes with chromosomal distribution during cell division , causing aneuploidy in plant and mammalian cells .
These effects have been demonstrated in vitro at concentrations that may be achieved in the serum with the recommended therapeutic dosage .
Since griseofulvin has demonstrated harmful effects in vitro on the genotype in bacteria , plants , and fungi , males should wait at least six months after completing griseofulvin therapy before fathering a child .
Precautions Patients on prolonged therapy with any potent medication should be under close observation .
Periodic monitoring of organ system function , including renal , hepatic and hemopoietic , should be done .
Since griseofulvin is derived from species of penicillin , the possibility of cross sensitivity with penicillin exists ; however , known penicillin - sensitive patients have been treated without difficulty .
Since a photosensitivity reaction is occasionally associated with griseofulvin therapy , patients should be warned to avoid exposure to intense natural or artificial sunlight .
Should a photosensitivity reaction occur , lupus erythematosus may be aggravated .
Drug Interactions : Patients on warfarin - type anticoagulant therapy may require dosage adjustment of the anticoagulant during and after griseofulvin therapy .
Concomitant use of barbiturates usually depresses griseofulvin activity and may necessitate raising the dosage .
The concomitant administration of griseofulvin has been reported to reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives and to increase the incidence of breakthrough bleeding .
Adverse Reactions When adverse reactions occur , they are most commonly of the hypersensitivity type such as skin rashes , urticaria and rarely , angioneurotic edema or erythema multiforme - like drug reaction , and may necessitate withdrawal of therapy and appropriate countermeasures .
Paresthesias of the hands and feet have been reported rarely after extended therapy .
Other side effects reported occasionally are oral thrush , nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , diarrhea , headache , fatigue , dizziness , insomnia , mental confusion and impairment of performance of routine activities .
Proteinuria and leukopenia have been reported rarely .
Administration of the drug should be discontinued if granulocytopenia occurs .
When rare , serious reactions occur with griseofulvin , they are usually associated with high dosages , long periods of therapy , or both .
Dosage and Administration Accurate diagnosis of the infecting organism is essential .
Identification should be made either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Medication must be continued until the infecting organism is completely eradicated as indicated by appropriate clinical or laboratory examination .
Representative treatment periods are tinea capitis , 4 to 6 weeks ; tinea corporis , 2 to 4 weeks ; tinea pedis , 4 to 8 weeks ; tinea unguium – depending on rate of growth – fingernails , at least 4 months ; toenails , at least 6 months .
General measures in regard to hygiene should be observed to control sources of infection or reinfection .
Concomitant use of appropriate topical agents is usually required , particularly in treatment of tinea pedis since in some forms of athlete ' s foot , yeasts and bacteria may be involved .
Griseofulvin will not eradicate the bacterial or monilial infection .
Adults : A daily dose of 500 mg will give a satisfactory response in most patients with tinea corporis , tinea cruris , and tinea capitis .
For those fungus infections more difficult to eradicate such as tinea pedis and tinea unguium , a daily dose of 1 gram is recommended .
Children : Approximately 5 mg per pound of body weight per day is an effective dose for most children .
On this basis the following dosage schedule for children is suggested : Children weighing 30 to 50 pounds - 125 mg to 250 mg daily .
Children weighing over 50 pounds - 250 mg to 500 mg daily .
How Supplied Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP ( microsize ) 125 mg per 5 mL is available as follows : 4 fl oz ( 120 mL ) bottle ( NDC 62135 - 968 - 41 ) Dispense Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Chartwell Pharmaceuticals , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 Manufactured for : Chartwell RX , LLC .
Congers , NY 10920 L70567 Rev : 08 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Griseofulvin Oral Suspension , USP ( microsize ) 125 mg / 5 mL - NDC 62135 - 968 - 41 - Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
