Precaustions from Manufacturer Package Insert 5 . 1 Anaphylactic Reactions Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity ( anaphylactic ) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy including amoxicillin .
Although anaphylaxis is more frequent following parenteral therapy , it has occurred in patients on oral penicillins .
These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and / or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens .
There have been reports of individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity who have experienced severe reactions when treated with cephalosporins .
Before initiating therapy with amoxicillin , careful inquiry should be made regarding previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins , cephalosporins , or other allergens .
If an allergic reaction occurs , amoxicillin should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
5 . 2 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including amoxicillin , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin - producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over 2 months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing amoxicillin in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
5 . 4 Use in Patients With Mononucleosis A high percentage of patients with mononucleosis who receive amoxicillin develop an erythematous skin rash .
Thus amoxicillin should not be administered to patients with mononucleosis .
Repackaging Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
