ACTIVE INGREDIENT Salicylic Acid 1 . 0 % USES To remove warts such as plantar wart , flat wart , common wart and corns , calluses WARNINGS For external use only , do n't contact with eyes or swallow .
Children should use it under the supervision of adults .
Keep out of reach of children .
The liquid can get easily volatilized & crystallized , tighten the cap after use .
Avoid long - term contact with air while using .
For external use only , do n't contact with eyes or swallow .
Children should use it under the supervision of adults .
Keep out of reach of children .
The liquid can get easily volatilized & crystallized , tighten the cap after use .
Avoid long - term contact with air while using .
Keep out of reach of children .
DO NOT USE .
On damaged skin ( cuts , abrasions , eczema , sunburn ) .
If you are allergic to any of the ingredients in this product .
.
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
STOP USE AND SEE A DOCTOR IF You become pregnant , or are planning to become pregnant , while using the product .
DIRECTION 1 .
Wash the corns or warts with warm water 2 .
Take out the inner plug from the bottle , install the brush into the bottle cap .
press the brush tightly ; and tighten the cap on the bottle .
3 .
Dry the skin , then open the cap , dip the liquid with the brush and apply it on the wart or corn , after the liquid dries and forms to be a mask , apply the liquid again .
Apply it in the day and night , and twice in each time .
4 .
Applying it for 2 weeks until the skin recovers to a healthy situation .
NOTICE : * If warts or com are big , you should use it for a longer time .
* If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
OTHER INGREDIENTS Prunus Mume ( sieb . )
, Sophora flavescens , Crocus Sativus L . Cnidium Monnieri ( L ) Cuss , Kochia scoparia ( L ) Schrad , cortex dictamni , Gleditsia sinensis Lam . , Borneol , etc .
QUESTIONS ?
drlukehealthcare . com Email : Info @ drlukehealthcare . com TOPICAL 83176 - 001 - 01 15 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
