Active ingredients Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % w / v Isopropyl alcohol 70 % v / v Purposes Antiseptic Antiseptic Use for the preparation of the patient ' s skin prior to surgery or injection .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
• do not use with electrocautery procedures Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • for lumbar puncture or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds or as a general skin cleanser When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• maximal treatment area for one applicator is approximately 2 . 5 in .
x 2 . 5 in .
( 42 cm 2 ) • tear pouch at side notch to reveal applicator handles .
Do not touch foam applicator tip .
Place foam flat side down on the treatment area .
• completely wet the treatment area with antiseptic • dry surgical sites ( e . g . , abdomen or arm ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes for 30 seconds .
Allow the area to air dry for approximately 30 seconds .
Do not blot or wipe away .
• moist surgical sites ( e . g . , inguinal fold ) : use gentle repeated back - and - forth strokes for 2 minutes .
Allow the area to air dry for approximately 1 minute .
Do not blot or wipe away .
• discard the applicator after a single use along with any portion of the solution not required to cover the prep area .
It is not necessary to use the entire amount available .
Other information • store between 15 - 30 ºC ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ºC ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredient • USP purified water Questions ?
• www . chloraprep . com • call 1 - 800 - 523 - 0502 ( M - F 8 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST ) Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - CARTON 1 . 75 ml SINGLE SWABSTICK APPLICATORS Clear Do Not Reuse Not made with natural rubber latex 48 applicators 0 . 06 fl .
oz .
( 1 . 75 ml ) each NDC 054365 - 400 - 07 Cat .
No . 2601000 ChloraPrep ® One - Step 2 % w / v chlorhexidine gluconate ( CHG ) and 70 % v / v isopropyl alcohol ( IPA ) Patient Preoperative Skin Preparation Non - sterile Solution Applicator is non - sterile Professional Use Only Store between 15 - 30 ºC ( 59 - 86 ºF ) Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ºC ( 104 ºF ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
