CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY INDICATIONS AND USAGE CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonazepam should not be used in patients with a history of sensitivity to benzodiazepines , nor in patients with clinical or biochemical evidence of significant liver disease .
It may be used in patients with open angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy but is contraindicated in acute narrow angle glaucoma .
WARNINGS PRECAUTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse experiences for clonazepam are provided separately for patients with seizure disorders and with panic disorder .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE OVERDOSAGE DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Clonazepam is available as a tablet .
The tablets should be administered with water by swallowing the tablet whole .
HOW SUPPLIED Clonazepam tablets USP 0 . 5 mg are orange , round , flat faced , beveled edge , scored , debossed with “ 1 ” and “ 2 ” on one side and plain on other .
They are supplied as follows : NDC : 60760 - 273 - 60 BOTTLES OF 60 Clonazepam tablets USP 1 mg are blue , round , flat faced , beveled edge , debossed with “ C 1 ” on one side and plain on the other .
They are supplied as follows : NDC : 60760 - 300 - 30 bottle of 30 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured For : Accord Healthcare , Inc . , 1009 , Slater Road , Suite 210 - B , Durham , NC 27703 , USA .
Manufactured By : Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited , Plot No .
: 457 , 458 , Village – Matoda , Bavla Road , Ta .
- Sanand , Dist .
- Ahmedabad – 382 210 .
India .
10 7744 1 626035 Issued October , 2010 .
Medication Guide Clonazepam Tablets , USP CIV Read this Medication Guide before you start taking clonazepam tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Clonazepam tablets can cause serious side effects .
Because stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can also cause serious problems , do not stop taking clonazepam tablets without talking to your healthcare provider first .
What is the most important information I should know about clonazepam tablets ?
Do not stop taking clonazepam tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can cause serious problems .
Clonazepam tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • Clonazepam tablets can slow your thinking and motor skills • Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how clonazepam tablets affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking clonazepam until you talk to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , clonazepam tablets may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
• Like other antiepileptic drugs , clonazepam tablets may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : • thoughts about suicide or dying • attempt to commit suicide • new or worse depression • new or worse anxiety • feeling agitated or restless • panic attacks • trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) • new or worse irritability • acting aggressive , being angry , or violent • acting on dangerous impulses • an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) • other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
• Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
• Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
Do not stop clonazepam tablets without first talking to a healthcare provider .
Stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
• Clonazepam tablets may harm your unborn or developing baby .
• If you take clonazepam tablets during pregnancy , your baby is at risk for serious birth defects .
These defects can happen as early as in the first month of pregnancy , even before you know you are pregnant .
Birth defects may occur even in children born to women who are not taking any medicines and do not have other risk factors .
• Children born to mothers receiving benzodiazepine medications ( including clonazepam tablets ) late in pregnancy may be at some risk of experiencing breathing problems , feeding problems , hypothermia , and withdrawal symptoms .
• Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking clonazepam tablets .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take clonazepam tablets while you are pregnant .
• If you become pregnant while taking clonazepam tablets , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug Pregnancy Registry .
You can register by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
• Clonazepam tablets can pass into breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take clonazepam tablets .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you will take clonazepam tablets or breast feed .
You should not do both .
• Clonazepam tablets can cause abuse and dependence .
• Do not stop taking clonazepam tablets all of a sudden .
Stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop , hearing or seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , shaking , and stomach and muscle cramps .
• Talk to your doctor about slowly stopping clonazepam tablets to avoid getting sick with withdrawal symptoms .
• Physical dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical dependence and drug addiction .
Clonazepam tablets are a federally controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep clonazepam tablets in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away clonazepam tablets may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your doctor if you have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
What is a clonazepam tablet ?
Clonazepam tablet is a prescription medicine used alone or with other medicines to treat : • certain types of seizure disorders ( epilepsy ) in adults and children • panic disorder with or without fear of open spaces ( agoraphobia ) in adults It is not known if clonazepam tablet is safe or effective in treating panic disorder in children younger than 18 years old .
Who should not take clonazepam tablets ?
Do not take clonazepam tablets if you : • are allergic to benzodiazepines • have significant liver disease • have an eye disease called acute narrow angle glaucoma Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you have any of the problems listed above .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking clonazepam tablets ?
Before you take clonazepam tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have liver or kidney problems • have lung problems ( respiratory disease ) • have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior • have any other medical conditions Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking clonazepam tablets with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well they work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take clonazepam tablets ?
• Take clonazepam tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
Clonazepam is available as a tablet .
• Do not stop taking clonazepam tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping clonazepam tablets suddenly can cause serious problems .
• Clonazepam tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole .
• If you take too much clonazepam tablets , call your healthcare provider or local Poison Control Center right away .
What should I avoid while taking clonazepam tablets ?
• Clonazepam tablets can slow your thinking and motor skills .
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how clonazepam tablets affects you .
• Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking clonazepam until you talk to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , clonazepam tablets may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
What are the possible side effects of clonazepam tablets ?
See “ What is the most important information I should know about clonazepam tablets ? ”
Clonazepam tablets can also make your seizures happen more often or make them worse .
Call your healthcare provider right away if your seizures get worse while taking clonazepam tablets .
The most common side effects of clonazepam tablets include : • Drowsiness • Problems with walking and coordination • Dizziness • Depression • Fatigue • Problems with memory These are not all the possible side effects of clonazepam tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store clonazepam tablets ?
• Store clonazepam tablets between 59ºF to 86ºF ( 15ºC to 30ºC ) .
Keep clonazepam tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about clonazepam tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use clonazepam tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give clonazepam tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about clonazepam tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about clonazepam tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in clonazepam tablets ?
Active Ingredient : clonazepam Inactive Ingredients : • Tablets • 0 . 5 mg tablets contain anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , starch ( corn ) and FD & C Yellow No . 6 Lake .
• 1 mg tablets contain anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , starch ( corn ) and FD & C Blue No . 2 Lake .
• 2 mg tablets contain anhydrous lactose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose and starch ( corn ) This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured For : Accord Healthcare , Inc . , 1009 , Slater Road , Suite 210 - B , Durham , NC 27703 , USA .
Manufactured By : Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited , Plot No .
: 457 , 458 , Village – Matoda , Bavla Road , Ta .
- Sanand , Dist .
- Ahmedabad – 382 210 .
India .
10 7744 1 626035 Issued October , 2010 .
Clonazepam [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonazepam [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
