Active ingredient Chlorhexidine gluconate 2 % solution Purpose Antiseptic Uses • helps reduce bacteria that can potentially cause skin infection • for preparation of skin prior to surgery Warnings For external use only Allergy alert : This product may cause a severe allergic reaction .
Symptoms may include : • wheezing / difficulty breathing • shock • facial swelling • hives • rash If an allergic reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • on patients allergic to chlorhexidine gluconate or any other ingredient in this product • for lumbar punctures or in contact with the meninges • on open skin wounds • as a general skin cleanser Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation , sensitization , or allergic reaction occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
When using this product • keep out of eyes , ears and mouth .
May cause serious or permanent injury if chlorhexidine is permitted to enter and remain .
If contact occurs , rinse with cold water right away and contact a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Posion Control Center right away .
Directions • use with care in premature infants or infants under 2 months of age .
These products may cause irritation or chemical burns .
• do not microwave • product and packaging are not sterile .
Follow your hospital policy for skin preparation with non - sterile products .
• to open package : identify the tear notch labeled on the front of the package .
Grasp with both hands on both sides of the tear notch and tear to expose cloth .
• transfer contents onto prep table , avoiding contact between cloth and outside of package to reduce risk of cloth contamination • use [ first / a ] cloth to prepare the skin area indicated for a moist or dry site , making certain to keep the [ second / remaining ] cloth [ s ] where it will not be contaminated .
Use [ second / additional ] cloth to prepare larger areas .
• dry surgical sites : ( such as abdomen or arm ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 161 cm 2 area ( approximately ) 5 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , completely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
• moist surgical sites ( such as inguinal fold ) : use one cloth to cleanse each 65 cm 2 area ( approximately 2 x 5 inches ) of skin to be prepared .
Vigorously scrub skin back and forth for 3 minutes , competely wetting treatment area , then discard .
Allow area to dry for one ( 1 ) minute .
Do not rinse .
• discard each cloth after a single use • after package has been opened , discard any unused cloths Other information • store product flat • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • avoid excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients • benzalkonium chloride • dimethicone emulsion • glycerin • isopropyl alcohol • propylene glycol • purified water USP Manufacturing Information DO NOT FLUSH Non - Sterile .
Product is not made with Natural Rubber Latex .
Cloth : 100 % Polyester REF MSC098CHG , MSC099CHG www . medline . com © 2021 Medline Industries , LP Medline is a registered trademark of Medline Industries , LP Manufactured by Medline Industries , LP Northfield , IL 60093 USA .
Made in USA with domestic and foreign materials .
Patent Pending Questions , comments , or ordering call : 1 - 800 - MEDLINE ( 633 - 5463 ) Customer Service Hours : ( Monday to Friday , 7 AM to 7 PM CST ) V1 RK21MSC , V1 RJ22MSC Recent Major Changes December 2022 : Additional verbiage added to " Directions " section due to the 6 count product ( NDC : 53329 - 244 - 03 ) being added to the SPL per S - 003 ( supplement 3 ) .
Package Label - 2 Cloths [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package Label - 6 Cloths [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
