Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Homosalate 10 . 0 % , Octisalate 5 . 0 % .......
Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions for Sunscreen use • Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat , freezing and direct sun • May stain some fabrics • Store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Water , Glycerin , Diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - Naphthalate , Dimethicone , Tetrahydroxypropyl Ethylenediamine , Butylene Glycol , Cyclohexasiloxane , Cetyl Alcohol , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , PPG - 2 Myristyl Ether Propionate , Pentaerythrityl Tetraethylhexanoate , Squalane , Propanediol , Styrene / Acrylates Copolymer , Glyceryl Stearate , Aluminum Starch Octenylsuccinate , Retinol , Glycolic Acid , Tocopheryl Acetate , Ascorbyl Palmitate , Allantoin , p - Anisic Acid , Pentylene Glycol , Ceteth - 20 , Steareth - 20 , Polyacrylamide , PEG - 8 Laurate , Laureth - 7 , C13 - 14 Isoparaffin , Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , PEG - 75 Stearate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Polysorbate 20 , Ascorbic Acid , Hydroxyphenyl Propamidobenzoic Acid , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , BHT , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Fragrance .
Questions or Comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 800 - RoC - 1964 ( 1 - 800 - 762 - 1964 ) or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) .
• Apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
