CLINDAMYCIN PALMITATE HYDROCHLORIDE - clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride powder , for solution Marlex Pharmaceuticals Inc . of New Castle , Delaware ---------- Clindamycin Palmitate Hydrochloride for Oral Solution , USP ( Pediatric ) To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride ( HCl ) for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
Not for Injection WARNING Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
Because clindamycin therapy has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally , it should be reserved for serious infections where less toxic antimicrobial agents are inappropriate , as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGEsection .
It should not be used in patients with nonbacterial infections such as most upper respiratory tract infections .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
DESCRIPTION Clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride is a water soluble hydrochloride salt of the ester of clindamycin and palmitic acid .
Clindamycin is a semisynthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution ofthe 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent compound lincomycin .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The chemical name for clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride is Methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - threo - a - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - palmitate monohydrochloride .
Clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) contains clindamycin palmitate hydrochloride granules for reconstitution .
Each 5 mL contains the equivalent of 75 mg clindamycin .
Inactive ingredients : artificial cherry flavor , dextrin , ethylparaben , poloxamer 188 , sucrose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Although clindamycin palmitate HCl is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts this compound to the antibacterially active clindamycin .
Clindamycin has been shown to have in vitro activity against isolates of the following organisms : Aerobic gram positive cocci , including : • Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing strains ) .
When tested by in vitro methods some staphylococcal strains originally resistant to erythromycin rapidly developresistance to clindamycin .
• Staphylococcus epidermidis ( penicillinase and non - penicillinase producing strains ) .
When tested by in vitro methods some staphylococcal strains originally resistant to erythromycin rapidly develop resistance to clindamycin .
• Streptococci ( except Streptococcus faecalis ) • Pneumococci Anaerobic gram negative bacilli , including : • Bacteroides species ( including Bacteroides fragilis group and Bacteroides melaninogenicus group ) • Fusobacterium species Anaerobic gram positive nonsporeforming bacilli , including : • Propionibacterium • Eubacterium • Actinomyces species Anaerobic and microaerophilic gram positive cocci , including : • Peptococcus species • Peptostreptococcus species • Microaerophilic streptococci Clostridia : Clostridia are more resistant than most anaerobes to clindamycin .
Most Clostridium perfringens are susceptible , but other species , e . g . , Clostridium sporogenes and Most Clostridium perfringens are susceptible , but other species , e . g . , Clostridium sporogenes and Clostridium tertium are frequently resistant to clindamycin .
Susceptibility testing should be done .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin .
Human Pharmacology Blood level studies comparing clindamycin palmitate HCl with clindamycin hydrochloride show that both drugs reach their peak active serum levels at the same time , indicating a rapid hydrolysis of the palmitate to the clindamycin .
Clindamycin is widely distributed in body fluids and tissues ( including bones ) .
Approximately 10 % of the biological activity is excreted in the urine .
The average serum half - life after doses of clindamycin palmitate HCl is approximately two hours in pediatric patients .
Serum half - life of clindamycin is increased slightly in patients with markedly reduced renal function .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effecting in removing clindamycin from the serum .
Serum level studies with clindamycin palmitate HCl in normal pediatric patients weighing 50 to 100 lbs given 2 , 3 or 4 mg / kg every 6 hours ( 8 , 12 or 16 mg / kg / day ) demonstrated mean peak clindamycin serum levels of 1 . 24 , 2 . 25 and 2 . 44 mcg / mL respectively , one hour after the first dose .
By the fifth dose , the 6 - hour serum concentration had reached equilibrium .
Peak serum concentrations after this time would be about 2 . 46 , 2 . 98 and 3 . 79 mcg / mL with doses of 8 , 12 and 16 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Serum levels have been uniform and predictable from person to person and dose to dose .
Multiple - dose studies in neonates and infants up to 6 months of age show that the drug does not accumulate in the serum and is excreted rapidly .
Serum levels exceed the MICs for most indicated organisms for at least six hours following administration of the usually recommended doses of clindamycin palmitate HCl in adults and pediatric patients .
No significant levels of clindamycin are attained in the cerebrospinal fluid , even in the presence of inflamed meninges .
Pharmacokinetic studies in elderly volunteers ( 61 to 79 years ) and younger adults ( 18 to 39 years ) indicate that age alone does not alter clindamycin pharmacokinetics ( clearance , elimination half - life , volume of distribution , and area under the serum concentration - time curve ) after IV administration of clindamycin phosphate .
After oral administration of clindamycin hydrochloride , elimination half - life is increased to approximately 4 . 0 hours ( range 3 . 4 to 5 . 1 h ) in the elderly compared to 3 . 2 hours ( range 2 . 1 to 4 . 2 h ) in younger adults ; administration of clindamycin palmitate HCl resulted in a similar elimination half - life value of about 4 . 5 hours in elderly subjects .
However , the extent of absorption is not different between age groups and no dosage alteration is necessary for the elderly with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) is indicated in the treatment of serious infections cause by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Clindamycin is also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of colitis , as described in the WARNING box , before selecting clindamycin the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Anaerobes : Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema , anaerobic pneumonitis and lung abscess ; serious skin and soft tissue infections ; septicemia ; intra - abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess ( typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract ) ; infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection .
Streptococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Staphylococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Pneumococci : Serious respiratory tract infections .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
In Vitro Susceptibility Testing A standardized disk testing procedure is recommended for determining susceptibility of aerobic bacteria to clindamycin .
A description is contained in the clindamycin palmitate HCl susceptibility disk insert .
Using this method , the laboratory can designate isolates as resistant , intermediate , or susceptible .
Tube or agar dilution methods may be used for both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria .
When the directions in the clindamycin palmitate HCl susceptibility powder insert are followed , an MIC ( minimal inhibitory concentration ) of 1 . 6 mcg / mL may be considered susceptible ; MICs of 1 . 6 to 4 . 8 mcg / mL may be considered intermediate and MICs greater than 4 . 8 mcg / mL may be considered resistant .
Clindamycin palmitate HCl susceptibility disks 2 mcg .
See package insert for use .
Clindamycin palmitate HCl susceptibility powder 20 mg .
See package insert for use .
For anaerobic bacteria the minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) of clindamycin can be determined by agar dilution and broth dilution ( including microdilution ) techniques .
If MICs are not determined routinely , the disk broth method is recommended for routine use .
THE KIRBY - BAUER DISK DIFFUSION METHOD AND ITS INTERPRETIVE STANDARDS ARE NOT RECOMMENDED FOR ANAEROBES .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to preparations containing clindamycin or lincomycin .
WARNINGS See WARNING box .
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin palmitate HCl , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
Usage in Meningitis : Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
PRECAUTIONS General Review of experience to date suggests that a subgroup of older patients with associated severe illness may tolerate diarrhea less well .
When clindamycin is indicated in these patients , they should be carefully monitored for change in bowel frequency .
Clindamycin palmitate HCl should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Clindamycin palmitate HCl should be prescribed with caution in atopic individuals .
Indicated surgical procedures should be performed in conjunction with antibiotic therapy .
The use of clindamycin palmitate HCl occasionally results in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms particularly yeasts .
Should superinfections occur , appropriate measures should be taken as indicated by the clinical situation .
Clindamycin dosage modification may not be necessary in patients with renal disease .
In patients with moderate to severe liver disease , prolongation of clindamycin half - life has been found .
However , it was postulated from studies that when given every eight hours , accumulation should rarely occur .
Therefore , dosage modification in patients with liver disease may not be necessary .
However , periodic liver enzyme determinations should be made when treating patients with severe liver disease .
Prescribing clindamycin palmitate HCl in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including clindamycin palmitate HCl should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin palmitate HCl is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin palmitate HCl or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro .
Because of possible clinical significance , these two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m ² ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 and 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m ² , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 and 0 . 7 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m ² , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk in the range of 0 . 7 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL .
Pediatric Use When clindamycin palmitate HCl is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) , appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more sever .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young subjects ( 18 to 39 years ) and elderly subjects ( 61 to 79 years ) with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , pseudomembranous colitis , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ( see WARNINGbox ) .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like ( maculopapular ) skin rashes are the most frequently reported adverse reactions .
Vesiculobullous rashes , as well as urticaria , have been observed during drug therapy .
Rare instances of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and a few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
( See Hypersensitivity Reactions . )
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Musculoskeletal : Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Significant mortality was observed in mice at an intravenous dose of 855 mg / kg and in rats at an oral subcutaneous dose of approximately 2618 mg / kg .
In the mice , convulsions and depression were observed .
Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis are not effective in removing clindamycin from the serum .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued ( see WARNING box ) .
Concomitant administration of food does not adversely affect the absorption of clindamycin palmitate HCl contained in clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) .
Serious infections : 8 to 12 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 6 mg / lb / day ) divided into 3 or 4 equal doses .
Severe infections : 13 to 16 mg / kg / day ( 6 . 5 to 8 mg / lb / day ) divided into 3 or 4 equal doses .
More severe infections : 17 to 25 mg / kg / day ( 8 . 5 to 12 . 5 mg / lb / day ) divided into 3 or 4 equal doses .
In pediatric patients weighing 10 kg or less , ½ teaspoon ( 37 . 5 mg ) three times a day should be considered the minimum recommended dose .
Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with clindamycin injection .
However , in clinically appropriate circumstances , the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) .
NOTE : In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should be continued for at least 10 days .
Reconstitution Instructions : When reconstituted with water as follows , each 5 mL ( teaspoon ) of solution contains clindamycin palmitate HCl equivalent to 75 mg clindamycin .
Reconstitute bottles of 100 mL with 75 mL of water .
Add a large portion of the water and shake vigorously ; add the remainder of the water and shake until the solution is uniform .
Storage Conditions : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do NOT refrigerate the reconstituted solution ; when chilled , the solution may thicken and be difficult to pour .
The solution is stable for 2 weeks at room temperature .
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin palmitate HCl for oral solution , USP ( pediatric ) is a white to off - white powder forming a clear colorless cherry flavored solution upon constitution with water .
When reconstituted as directed , each bottle yields 100 mL of solution containing 75 mg of clindamycin per 5 mL ( NDC 10135 - 569 - 19 ) .
Storage Conditions : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY One year oral toxicity studies in Spartan Sprague - Dawley rats and beagle dogs at dose levels up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 and 5 . 4 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m , respectively ) have shown clindamycin to be well tolerated .
No appreciable difference in pathological findings has been observed between groups of animals treated with clindamycin and comparable control groups .
Rats receiving clindamycin hydrochloride at 600 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 . 2 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m ) for 6 months tolerated the drug well ; however , dogs dosed at this level ( approximately 10 . 8 times the highest recommended adult human oral dose based on mg / m ) vomited , would not eat , and lost weight .
Rx only References 1 .
Smith RB , Phillips JP : Evaluation of CLEOCIN HCl and CLEOCIN Phosphate in an Aged Population .
Upjohn TR 8147 - 82 - 9122 - 021 , December 1982 .
2 .
Bauer AW , Kirby WMM , Sherris JC , Turck M : Antibiotic susceptibility testing by a standardized single disk method .
Am J . Clin .
Path . , 45 : 493 – 496 , 1966 .
Standardized Disk Susceptibility Test , Federal Register , 37 : 20527 - 29 , 1972 .
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured for : Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
New Castle , DE 19720 Distributed by : Marlex Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
New Castle , DE 19720 Rev . 08 / 15 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 10135 - 0569 - 19 Clindamycin Palmitate Hydrochloride for Oral Solution , USP ( Pediatric ) 75 mg * / 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
