The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • HOCL 385 ppm • Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
HOCl solutions are already included in the WHO list of coronavirus - effective biocides , and in the US EPA ‘ N ’ list of disinfecting agents able to control emerging pathogens like SARS - CoV - 2 .
37 , 126 More than ten branded aqueous HOCl formulations have been cleared by the US FDA for topical use in wound management over the last decade .
A Class III medical product approval for HOCl has been granted in the EU , and the Japanese Ministry of Health has approved use of HOCl for topical medical applications .
The US FDA has approved HOCl for high level disinfection and sterilization of medical instruments , including those for use at critical ( i . e . , sterile ) sites Active Ingredient ( s ) HOCL 385 ppm Purpose : Antiseptic Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings None Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) • Avoid Direct Sunlight , store in an opaque bottle .
• Keep sealed when not in use .
Inactive ingredients Purified water USP Hydroxmethyl Cellulose Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3785 mL NDC : 77368 - 388 - 01 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
