Active Ingredient ( in each 5 mL ) Diphenhydramine HCL 12 . 5 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses Temporarily relieves runny nose and reduces sneezing , itching of the nose or throat , and itchy , watery eyes due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies .
Warnings Do not use ■ to make a child sleepy ■ with any other product containing diphenhydramine , even one used on skin Ask a doctor before use if the child has ■ a breathing problem such as chronic bronchitis ■ glaucoma ■ a sodium - restricted diet Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if the child is taking any sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product ■ excitability may occur , especially in children ■ marked drowsiness may occur ■ sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect Keep out of reach of children In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions ■ this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use ■ give the recommended number of vials below following the instructions : 1 .
Tap the vial to eliminate air bubbles ; 2 .
Twist the top of the vial off ; 3 .
Squeeze the liquid into child ’ s mouth .
■ empty each Single Use Vial required of all liquid when dosing .
■ do not give more than 6 doses in 24 hours Dosing chart Age ( years ) Dose 6 - 11 years 1 - 2 Single Use Vial ( 5 mL each ) every 4 – 6 hours .
Do not exceed 12 vials in 24 hours Other Information ■ Each Single Use Vial contains 16 mg of sodium ■ Store at 68 - 77 ° F ( 20 - 25 ° C ) ■ Tamper Evident : do not use if top flap of carton is open .
Do not use if any vial is open or broken .
Inactive Ingredients citric acid , glycerin , mixed berry flavor , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , strawberry flavor , sucralose , trisodium citrate dihydrate , xanthan gum .
Questions or Comments ?
1 - 833 - WTF - FRIDA ( 1 - 833 - 983 - 3743 ) Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
