For the treatment of Acne Penetrates pores to control acne blemishes , blackheads and whiteheads .
Helps prevent new acne blemishes , blackheads and whiteheads .
For external use only .
Do not use if you : - Have very sensitive skin - Are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
- Skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical medication at the same time .
- If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time - Avoid unnecessary sun expossure - Avoid contact with the eyes , lip and mouth Avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product SKin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask doctor if skin irritation occurs or get worse .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
Apply after cleansing and exfoliating .
Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start wit oe application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Store at 20 - 25 degrees Celcius .
Water ( Aqua ) , Propylene Glycol , Bisabolol , Allantoin , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Sodium Citrate , Laureth - 4 , Caprylyl Glycol , Sodium Hydroxide , Disodium EDTA , Hexylene Glycol , Phenoxyethanol .
Benzoyl Peroxide , 2 . 5 % For the treatment of acne .
Penetrates pores to control acne blemishes , blackheads and whiteheads .
Helps prevent new acne blemishesm blackheads and whiteheads .
- Apply after cleansing and exfoliating - Cover the entir eaffected area with a thin layer one to three times daily - Becase excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor - If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day - If going outside , appy sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Benzoyl Peroxide , 2 . 5 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
