Active ingredient Step 1 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 21 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 2 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 14 mg delivered over 24 hours Active ingredient Step 3 ( in each patch ) Nicotine , 7 mg delivered over 24 hours Purpose Stop smoking aid Use reduces withdrawal symptoms , including nicotine craving , associated with quitting smoking Warnings If you are pregnant or breast - feeding , only use this medicine on the advice of your health care provider .
Smoking can seriously harm your child .
Try to stop smoking without using any nicotine replacement medicine .
This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking .
However , the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • • heart disease , recent heart attack , or irregular heartbeat .
Nicotine can increase your heart rate .
• • high blood pressure not controlled with medication .
Nicotine can increase your blood pressure .
• • an allergy to adhesive tape or have skin problems because you are more likely to get rashes Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are • • using a non - nicotine stop smoking drug • • taking a prescription medicine for depression or asthma .
Your prescription dose may need to be adjusted .
When using this product • • If you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances remove this patch at bedtime Stop use and ask a doctor if • • skin redness caused by the patch does not go away after four days , or if your skin swells , or you get a rash • • irregular heartbeat or palpitations occur • • you get symptoms of nicotine overdose such as nausea , vomiting , dizziness , weakness and rapid heartbeat Keep out of reach of children and pets .
Used patches have enough nicotine to poison children and pets .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Dispose of the used patches by folding sticky ends together .
Replace in pouch and discard .
Directions • • if you are under 18 years of age , ask a doctor before use • • before using this product , read the enclosed User ’ s Guide for complete directions and other information • • begin using the patch on your quit day • • if you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , use according to the following 10 week schedule : STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Use one 21 mg patch / day Use one 14 mg patch / day Use one 7 mg patch / day Weeks 1 - 6 Weeks 7 - 8 Weeks 9 - 10 • • if you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , do not use STEP 1 ( 21 mg ) .
Start with STEP 2 ( 14 mg ) for 6 weeks , then STEP 3 ( 7 mg ) for 2 weeks and then stop .
• • steps 2 and 3 allow you to gradually reduce your level of nicotine .
Completing the full program will increase your chances of quitting successfully .
• • apply one new patch every 24 hours on skin that is dry , clean and hairless .
Save pouch for disposing of the patch after use .
• • remove backing from patch and immediately press onto skin .
Hold for 10 seconds .
• • wash hands after applying or removing patch .
Throw away the patch by folding sticky ends together .
Replace in its pouch and discard .
See enclosed User ’ s Guide for safety and handling .
• • you may wear the patch for 16 or 24 hours .
• • if you crave cigarettes when you wake up , wear the patch for 24 hours .
• • if you have vivid dreams or other sleep disturbances , you may remove the patch at bedtime and apply a new one in the morning • • the used patch should be removed and a new one applied to a different skin site at the same time each day • • do not wear more than one patch at a time • • do not cut patch in half or into smaller pieces • • do not leave patch on for more than 24 hours because it may irritate your skin and loses strength after 24 hours • • it is important to complete treatment .
If you fell you need to use the patch for a longer period to keep from smoking , talk to your health care provider .
Other information store at 20 – 25 oC ( 68 – 77 oF ) Inactive ingredients ethylene vinyl acetate - copolymer , polyisobutylene and high density polyethylene between clear polyester backings Questions or comments ?
call toll - free 1 - 888 - 367 - 7919 ( English / Spanish ) weekdays Includes User ’ s Guide with behavioral support program enrollment offer .
To increase your success in quitting : • • You must be motivated to quit .
• • Complete the full treatment program , applying a new patch every day .
• • Use with a support program as described in the enclosed User ’ s Guide .
• • Not for sale to those under 18 years of age .
• • Proof of age required .
• • Not for sale in vending machines or from any source where proof of age cannot be verified .
For your family ' s protection , nicotine patches are supplied in child - resistant pouches .
Do not use if individual pouch / packet is damaged or open .
Read carton and enclosed User ' s Guide before using this product .
Keep the carton and User ' s Guide .
They contain important information 100 % satisfaction guaranteed or your money back .
094 09 0437 R00ID255400 Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis , MN 55403 Shop Target . com * NICODERM and CQ are registered trademarks owned by and / or licensed to the GSK group of companies .
What is the nicotine patch and how is it used ?
The nicotine patch is a small , nicotine - containing patch .
When you put on a nicotine patch , nicotine passes through the skin and into your body .
The nicotine patch is very thin and uses special material to control how fast nicotine passes through the skin .
Unlike the sudden jolts of nicotine delivered by cigarettes , the amount of nicotine you receive remains relatively smooth throughout the 24 or 16 hour period you wear the nicotine patch .
This helps to reduce cravings you may have for nicotine .
READ THE LABEL Principal Display Panel NDC 11673 - 194 - 02 nicotine patch nicotine transdermal system 21 mg delivered over 24 hours stop smoking aid up & up ™ 14 PATCHES Compare to the active ingredient in NicoDerm ® CQ ® * If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , start with step 1 If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with step 2 STEP 1 14 CLEAR PATCHES ( 2 - WEEK KIT ) ACTUAL SIZE © 2015 Target Brands , Inc .
30768 XC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 11673 - 195 - 02 nicotine patch nicotine transdermal system 14 mg delivered over 24 hours stop smoking aid up & up ™ 14 PATCHES Compare to the active ingredient in NicoDerm ® CQ ® * If you smoke 10 or less cigarettes per day , start with step 2 If you smoke more than 10 cigarettes per day , start with step 1 STEP 2 14 CLEAR PATCHES ( 2 - WEEK KIT ) ACTUAL SIZE © 2015 Target Brands , Inc .
30769 XC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel NDC 11673 - 196 - 02 nicotine patch nicotine transdermal system 7 mg delivered over 24 hours stop smoking aid up & up ™ 14 PATCHES Compare to the active ingredient in NicoDerm ® CQ ® * For use after completing step 2 STEP 3 14 CLEAR PATCHES ( 2 - WEEK KIT ) ACTUAL SIZE © 2015 Target Brands , Inc .
30770 XC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
