Probenecid Tablets , USP 500 mg Rx only DESCRIPTION : Probenecid is a uricosuric and renal tubular transport blocking agent .
The chemical name for probenecid is 4 - [ ( dipropylamino ) sulfony1 ] benzoic acid .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Probenecid , USP is a white or nearly white , fine , crystalline powder .
Probenecid is soluble in dilute alkali , in alcohol , in chloroform , and in acetone ; it is practically insoluble in water and in dilute acids .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 500 mg of probenecid and the following inactive ingredients : Microcrystalline cellulose , corn starch , sodium starch glycolate , povidone , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , sodium lauryl sulfate , polyvinyl alcohol , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol , talc , D & C Yellow # 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 Aluminum Lake , and FD & C Blue # 2 Aluminum Lake .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Probenecid is a uricosuric and renal tubular blocking agent .
It inhibits the tubular reabsorption of urate , thus increasing the urinary excretion of uric acid and decreasing serum urate levels .
Effective uricosuria reduces the miscible urate pool , retards urate deposition , and promotes resorption of urate deposits .
Probenecid inhibits the tubular secretion of penicillin and usually increases penicillin plasma levels by any route the antibiotic is given .
A 2 - fold to 4 - fold elevation has been demonstrated for various penicillins .
Probenecid also has been reported to inhibit the renal transport of many other compounds including aminohippuric acid ( PAH ) , aminosalicylic acid ( PAS ) , indomethacin , sodium iodomethamate and related iodinated organic acids , 17 – ketosteroids , pantothenic acid , phenolsulfonphthalein ( PSP ) , sulfonamides , and sulfonylureas .
See also Drug Interactions .
Probenecid decreases both hepatic and renal excretion of sulfobromophtalein ( BSP ) .
The tubular reabsorption of phosphorus is inhibited in hypoparathyroid but not in euparathyroid individuals .
Probenecid does not influence plasma concentrations of salicylates , nor the excretion of streptomycin , chloramphenicol , chlortetracycline , oxytetracycline , or neomycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Probenecid tablets are indicated for the treatment of the hyperuricemia associated with gout and gouty arthritis .
As an adjuvant to therapy with penicillin or with ampicillin , methicillin , oxacillin , cloxacillin , or nafcillin , for elevation and prolongation of plasma levels by whatever route the antibiotic is given .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to probenecid .
Children under 2 years of age .
Not recommended in persons with known blood dyscrasias or uric acid kidney stones .
Therapy with probenecid should not be started until an acute gouty attack has subsided .
WARNINGS Exacerbation of gout following therapy with probenecid may occur ; in such cases colchicine or other appropriate therapy is advisable .
Probenecid increases plasma concentrations of methotrexate in both animals and humans .
In animal studies , increased methotrexate toxicity has been reported .
If probenecid is given with methotrexate , the dosage of methotrexate should be reduced and serum levels may need to be monitored .
In patients on probenecid the use of salicylates in either small or large doses is contraindicated because it antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid .
The biphasic action of salicylates in the renal tubules accounts for the so - called “ paradoxical effect ” of uricosuric agents .
In patients on probenecid who require a mild analgesic agent the use of acetaminophen rather than small doses of salicylates would be preferred .
Rarely , severe allergic reactions and anaphylaxis have been reported with the use of probenecid .
Most of these have been reported to occur within several hours after readministration following prior usage of the drug .
The appearance of hypersensitivity reactions requires cessation of therapy with probenecid .
Use in Pregnancy : Probenecid crosses the placenta barrier and appears in cord blood .
The use of any drug in women of childbearing potential requires that the anticipated benefit be weighed against the possible hazards .
PRECAUTIONS General : Hematuria , renal colic , costovertebral pain , and formation of uric acid stones associated with the use of probenecid in gouty patients may be prevented by alkalization of the urine and a liberal fluid intake ( seeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
In these cases when alkali is administered , the acid - base balance of the patient should be watched .
Use with caution in patients with a history of peptic ulcer .
Probenecid has been used in patients with some renal impairment , but dosage requirements may be increased .
Probenecid may not be effective in chronic renal insufficiency particularly when the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mL / minute or less .
Because of its mechanism of action , probenecid is not recommended in conjunction with a penicillin in the presence of known renal impairment .
A reducing substance may appear in the urine of patients receiving probenecid .
This disappears with discontinuance of therapy .
Suspected glycosuria should be confirmed by using a test specific for glucose .
Drug Interactions : When probenecid is used to elevate plasma concentrations of penicillin or other beta - lactams , or when such drugs are given to patients taking probenecid therapeutically , high plasma concentrations of the other drug may increase the incidence of adverse reactions associated with that drug .
In the case of penicillin or other beta - lactams , psychic disturbances have been reported .
The use of salicylates antagonizes the uricosuric action of probenecid ( seeWARNINGS ) .
The uricosuric action of probenecid is also antagonized by pyrazinamide .
Probenecid produces an insignificant increase in free sulfonamide plasma concentrations , but a significant increase in total sulfonamide plasma levels .
Since probenecid decreases the renal excretion of conjugated sulfonamides , plasma concentrations of the latter should be determined from time to time when sulfonamide and probenecid are coadministered for prolonged periods .
Probenecid may prolong or enhance the action of oral sulfonylureas and thereby increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
It has been reported that patients receiving probenecid require significantly less thiopental for induction of anesthesia .
In addition , ketamine and thiopental anesthesia were significantly prolonged in rats receiving probenecid .
The concomitant administration of probenecid increases the mean plasma elimination half - life of a number of drugs which can lead to increased plasma concentrations .
These include agents such as indomethacin , acetaminophen , naproxen , ketoprofen , meclofenamate , lorazepam , and rifampin .
Although the clinical significance of this observation has not been established , a lower dosage of the drug may be required to produce a therapeutic effect , and increases a dosage of the drug in question should be made cautiously and in small increments when probenecid is being coadministered .
Although specific instances of toxicity due to this potential interaction have not been observed to date , physicians should be alert to this possibility .
Probenecid given concomitantly with sulindac had only a slight effect on plasma sulfide levels , while plasma levels of sulindac and sulfone were increased .
Sulindac was shown to produce a modest reduction in the uricosuric action of probenecid , which probably is not significant under most circumstances .
In animals and in humans , probenecid has been reported to increase plasma concentrations of methotrexate ( see WARNINGS ) .
Falsely high readings for theophylline have been reported in an in vitro study , using the Schack and Waxler technique , when therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and probenecid were added to human plasma .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been observed and within each category are listed in order of decreasing severity .
Central Nervous System : headache , dizziness .
Metabolic : precipitation of acute gouty arthritis Gastrointestinal : hepatic necrosis , vomiting , nausea , anorexia , sore gums .
Genitourinary : nephrotic syndrome , uric acid stones with or without hematuria , renal colic , costovertebral pain , urinary frequency .
Hypersensitivity : anaphylaxis , fever , urticaria , pruritus Hematologic : aplastic anemia , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia which in some patients could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells , anemia .
Integumentary : dermatitis , alopecia , flushing .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Gout : Therapy with probenecid should not be started until an acute gouty attack has subsided .
However , if an acute attack is precipitated during therapy , probenecid may be continued without changing the dosage , and full therapeutic dosage of colchicine , or other appropriate therapy , should be given to control the acute attack .
The recommended adult dosage is 250 mg ( ½ probenecid tablet ) , twice a day for one week , followed by 500 mg ( 1 tablet ) twice a day thereafter .
Some degree of renal impairment may be present in patients with gout .
A daily dosage of 1000 mg may be adequate .
However , if necessary , the daily dosage may be increased by 500 mg increments every 4 weeks within tolerance ( and usually not above 2000 mg per day ) if symptoms of gouty arthritis are not controlled or the 24 hour uric acid excretion is not above 700 mg .
As noted , probenecid may not be effective in chronic renal insufficiency particularly when the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mg mL / minute or less .
Gastric intolerance may be indicative of overdosage , and may be corrected by decreasing the dosage .
As uric acid tends to crystallize out of an acid urine , a liberal fluid intake is recommended , as well as sufficient sodium bicarbonate ( 3 to 7 . 5 g daily ) , or potassium citrate ( 7 . 5 g daily ) to maintain an alkaline urine ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Alkalization of the urine is recommended until the serum urate level returns to normal limits and tophaceous deposits disappear , i . e . , during the period when urinary excretion of uric acid is at high level .
Thereafter , alkalization of the urine and the usual restriction of purine - producing foods may be somewhat relaxed .
Probenecid should be continued at the dosage that will maintain normal serum urate levels .
When acute attacks have been absent for 6 months or more and serum urate levels remain within normal limits , the daily dosage may be decreased by 500 mg every 6 months .
The maintenance dosage should not be reduced to the point where serum urate levels tend to rise .
Probenecid and Penicillin Therapy ( General ) : Adults : The recommended dosage is 2000 mg ( 4 tablets of probenecid ) daily in divided doses .
This dosage should be reduced in older patients in whom renal impairment may be present .
Children : 2 - 14 years of age : Initial dose : 25 mg / kg body weight ( or 0 . 7 g / square meter body surface ) .
Maintenance Dose : 40 mg / kg body weight ( or 1 . 2 g / square meter body surface ) per day , divided into 4 doses .
For children weighing more than 50 kg ( 110 lb ) the adult dosage is recommended .
Probenecid is contraindicated in children under 2 years of age .
The PSP excretion test may be used to determine the effectiveness of probenecid in retarding penicillin excretion and maintaining therapeutic levels .
The renal clearance of PSP is reduced to about one - fifth the normal rate when dosage of probenecid is adequate .
Penicillin Therapy ( Gonorrhea ) ¹ 1 Recommended by the Center of Disease Control , U . S Department of Health and Human Services , Public Health Service ( Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report Supplement , Volume 34 , Number 4 S , October 18 , 1985 ) .
In uncomplicated gonococcal infections in men and women ( urethral , cervical , rectal ) , 1 g of probenecid should be given orally with 4 . 8 million units of aqueous procaine penicillin G ² ( given IM ) , or 3 g of amoxicillin ² ( given orally ) , or 3 . 5 g of ampicillin ² ( given orally ) .
For further guidance , see CDC recommendations for definition of regimens of choice , alternative regimens , treatment of hypersensitive patients , and other aspects of therapy .
2 See package circulators of manufacturers for detailed information about CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Repackaged by Aphena Pharma Solutions - TN .
See Repackaging Information for available configurations .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Probenecid Tablets , USP are available containing 500 mg of Probenecid , USP .
The tablets are capsule shaped , film - coated yellow , debossed LCI on one side and 1367 on the other side .
They are available as follows : NDC 10135 - 541 - 10 bottles of 1000 tablets STORE AT 20 ˚ to 25 ˚ C ( 68 ˚ - 77 ˚ F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] PROTECT FROM LIGHT .
Dispense in a well closed , light - resistant container using a child - resistant closure as defined in the USP .
MANUFACTURED BY LANNETT COMPANY , INC .
PHILADELPHIA , PA 19136 DISTRIBUTED BY MARLEX PHARMACEUTICALS , INC .
NEW CASTLE , DE 19720 Made in the USA Revised 07 / 12 , Revision 1 10 - 243 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets or capsules .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 500 mg 90 43353 - 839 - 60 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20140528 SC [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg NDC 43353 - 839 - Probenecid 500 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
