Aboniki ® Balm - Topical Pain Relief Balm Drug Facts Drug Facts Active Ingredients Active Ingredients ( In each gram ) Camphor 5 . 04 % Eucalyptus Oil 2 . 30 % Menthol 5 . 10 % Methyl Salicylate 4 . 25 % Purpose Active Ingredients ( In each gram ) Purpose Camphor 5 . 04 % External Analgesic Eucalyptus Oil 2 . 30 % External Analgesic Menthol 5 . 10 % External Analgesic Methyl Salicylate 4 . 25 % External Analgesic USES Temporarily relieves minor aches & pains related to : • arthritis • simple backaches • sore muscles • joint pain • dislocation • leg cramps • bruises • sprains • lumbago Warning For external use only .
Do not use • on wounds or damaged skin • with a heating pad • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you have • sensitive skin • redness over the affected area When using this product • avoid contact with eyes and mucous membranes • do not bandage tightly Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash , itching , or excessive irritation of the skin develops • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • symptoms clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Direction • Use only as directed • For adults and children over 12 years , apply to the affected area 3 to 4 times daily • Wash hands after use • For Children under 12 years , consult a doctor before use Other Information • Store in a cool , dry place between 20 oC to 25 oC ( 68 oF - 77 oF ) • Do not use if the seal is broken • See cap for lot no , mfg , and exp date Inactive Ingredients FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Lanolin , Paraffin , White Petrolatum .
Contact Info Distributed by : J . C . Udeozor & Sons Global Industries Limited Email : Info - US @ aboniki . com Mail : 300 Delaware Ave , Suite 210 # 465 Wilmington , DE 19801 USA Aboniki ® Balm - Topical Pain Relief Balm - Twin Pack [ Two 25 g ( 0 . 88 OZ ) Jar Inside ] • New Look • Same Powerful Formula • Fast and Deep Penetrating Pain Relief [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
