Enter section text here Active Ingredients ( in each packet ) Sodium Bicarbonate USP 700 mg Sodium Chloride USP 2300 mg Purpose Nasal Wash Uses Temporarily relieves symptoms associated with sinusitis , cold , flu or allergies : - Sneezing - Nasal Stuffiness - Runny Nose - Post nasal drip Removes inhaled irritants ( dust , pollen ) Promotes nasal and sinus drainage Helps reduce swelling of nasal membranes Keep out of reach from children Warnings Stop use and ask a doctor if washing is uncomfortable or symptoms are not relieved Directions Adults and children 4 years and over : use 1 - 2 packets every 2 hours as needed Children under 4 years : consult a doctor Consult Instructions for Use for proper use When using this product : Use by only one person Wash with soap and water after each use Top rack of dishwasher safe Do not heat in microwave Inactive Ingredients None Instructions for Use : Directions : Read through the entire section before using for the first time .
1 .
Empty the contents of one Saline Sinus Wash packet into the Classic Neti Pot .
First - time users should start with 1 / 2 packet of the dry ingredients .
As you become more accustomed to the system , work up to using 1 full packet .
Additional packets may be purchased from your nearest pharmacy .
2 .
Fill the pot halfway or to the middle of the indentation with proper water .
This makes 1 / 2 cup ( 4 oz ) solution .
3 .
Stir thoroughly until dry ingredients have completely dissolved .
4 .
Proper head position allows solution to run through the nose by gravity .
Lean over the sink so that the right nostril is directly above the left .
The forehead should remain higher than the chin .
Raise the handle of the pot so that the solution enters the right nostril .
In a few moments the solution will begin to drain out of the left nostril into the sink .
Do not inhale or " snort " solution into the nose - breathe through the mouth .
5 .
When the pot is empty , exhale through both nostrils to clear them of excess mucous and solution .
Gently blow your nose into a tissue .
6 .
Repeat the procedure on the other side .
7 .
Thoroughly rinse the pot after each use with water that has been sterilized , filtered or previously boiled and leave the pot to air - dry completely .
The Classic Neti Pot is top - rack dishwasher safe .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
