Active ingredient Mineral Oil , 100 % Purpose Lubricant Laxative Use • For relief of occasional constipation .
This product generally produced bowel movement in 2 to 15 minutes .
Warnings For rectal use only .
Do not use • If you have abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting , unless directed by a doctor .
• Longer than one week unless directed by a doctor .
• More than one enema per day unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use • if you have noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persist over a period of 2 weeks Stop use and ask a doctor if • use results in unusual pain or other side effects .
• you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use of a laxative .
This may indicate a serious condition .
If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Single Daily Dose Do not use more unless directed by a doctor .
See Warnings .
Adults and children 12 years and older One bottle ( 4 oz . )
120 mL delivered dose Children 2 years to 12 years old 1 / 2 Adult dose ( 2 oz . )
60 mL delivered dose Children under 2 years of age Ask a doctor Dosage : • Adults and children 12 years of age and older : rectal enema dosage is 120 milliliters in a single daily dose .
• Children 2 to 12 years of age : rectal enema dosage is 60 mililiters in a single daily dose , 1 / 2 of a bottle .
( Children ' s dose of 60 mililiters can be measured by removing mineral oil from the bottle until the words " Mineral Oil " on the front face of the bottle are just covered ) .
• Children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor .
Directions for inserting enema Positioning : Left side position : Lie on left side with right knee bent and arms resting comfortably .
Knee chest position : Kneel , lower head and chest forward until left side of the face is resting on surface with arms resting comfortably .
CAUTION : Remove orange protective shield before inserting .
To do so , hold bottle upright with one hand and pull gently to remove .
• with steady pressure , gently insert enema tip into rectum with a side to side movement with tip pointing toward navel .
• stop using if tip is hard to insert .
Forcing tip into the rectum can cause injury ( especially if you have hemorrhoids ) .
If enema tip causes rectal bleeding or pain , get immediate medical care .
• Squeeze bottle until nearly all the liquid is released .
Remove from rectum .
Maintain position until urge to evacuate is strong ( usually 1 to 5 minutes ) .
If no urge is felt after 5 minutes of using , try to empty bowel .
Call a doctor promptly if no liquid comes out of the rectum after 30 minutes because dehydration could occur .
Other Information This product does not contain Dry Natural Rubber or Natural Rubber Latex .
Principal Display Panel TRIAD Ready - To - Use MINERAL OIL enema , USP protective shield prevents contamination lubricated tip assures ease of insertion one way safety valve prevents reflux easy to grip and squeeze bottle carton sealed for safety 4 1 / 2 fl .
oz .
( 133 ml ) CAT .
No . 10 - 2113 Triad Disposables Brookfield , WI 53045
