TEP Statement Tamper Evident Packaging Caution : this package has been sealed for your protection .
Do not use if package is open , torn or mulitated Active ingredient Magnesium sulfate USP ( heptahydrate ) 100 % Purpose Saline Laxative Soaking aid Use Uses for Laxative • for relief of occasional constipation ( irregularity ) • for this product generally produces bowel movement in 1 / 2 to 6 hours Uses for Soaking Aid • for minor sprains and bruises Warnings Caution : if prompt relief is not obtained or there is evidence of infection , discontinue use and consult your phyusician .
Hot or warm soaks should not be used by individuals with diabetes except on the advice of a physician .
Keep out of reach of children Ask a doctor • kidney disease • a magnesium - restricted diet • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • noticed a sudden change in bowel habits that persists over a period of 2 weeks • already used a laxative for a period longer than 1 week Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drug .
Take this product 2 or more hours before or after other drugs .
Laxativs may affect how other drugs work .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have rectal bleeding or failure to have a bowel movement after use .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding ask a help professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not exceed recommended daily dosage • drink a full glass ( 8 ounces ) of liquid with each dose • may be taken as a single daily dose or in divided doses • dissolve the dose in 8 ounces of water .
Lemon juice may be added to improve the taste adults and children 12 years and over - 2 to 6 level teaspoons ( 10 to 30 grams ) daily children 6 to under 12 years - 1 to 2 level teaspoons ( 5 to 10 grams ) daily children under 6 years - consult a doctor DIRECTIONS : Dissolve 2 cupfuls of this product per gallon of water .
Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day or use as a soak or in bath .
Use warm water for best results Inactive Ingredients None Other information • magnesium content 495 mg per teaspoon ( 5 grams ) Questions Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 632 - 6900 epsom salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . MgSO4 7H2O Your Wellness Mentor Adding Epsom salt to your bath will help relieve the aches and pains of minor spains and bruises .
Let Epsom salt do the work while you relax in the bathtub .
Kroger Brand Cares for Us Every Day Restored and protected , that ' s how we help you feel confident in caring for the most important people in your life .
Kroger Brand products : here to help you with what really matters .
DISTRIBUTED BY THE KROGER CO .
CINCINATI , OHIO 45202 QUALITY GUARANTT www . kroger . com 602 . 002 / 602 AA principal panel display Cut along dotted line and press zipper to reseal .
Kroger FROM OUR FAMILY TO YOURS epsom salt MAGNESIUM SULFATE U . S . P . MgSO4 7H2O SALINE LAXATIVE For Relief of Occasional Constipation SOAKING AID For Minor Sprains and Bruises NET WT 16 OZ ( 1 LB ) 453 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
