Drug Facts Active ingredient Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Purpose Anti - Fungal Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea crurus ) , and ringworm ( tinea capitis ) • relieves itching , scaling , cracking , burning and discomfort associated with these conditions .
Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if the safety - sealed tube is punctured or damaged .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a healthcare professional .
When using this product avoid contact with the eyes .
Stop use and ask a healthcare professional if • irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ) • Irritation occurs , or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
Directions Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • Apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a healthcare professional • Supervise children in the use of this product .
For athlete ' s foot : • Use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists , consult a healthcare professional .
• Pay special attention to the spaces between the toes • Wear well fitting , ventilated shoes • Change socks atleast once daily .
For ringworm : Use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists , consult a healthcare professional .
For jock itch : Use daily for 2 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a healthcare professional .
This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Inactive ingredients Carbomer , cetostearyl alcohol , dimethyl sulfoxide , edetate disodium , ethylparaben , glycerol , glyceryl distearate , mineral oil , peregal - o , purified water , stearic acid , triethanolamine , petrolatum .
Other Information • Store at 15 ° - 30 ° c ( 59 ° - 86 ° f ) • Lot number and expiration date see crimp of tube or see box .
• To open : Unscrew cap , tear safety seal off .
You may report serious side effects to : QC @ trifecta - pharma . com FAST RELIEF 100 % GUARANTEED Relieves Itching and Burning Also Cures Athlete ' s Foot and Ringworm Distributed by : Trifecta Pharmaceuticals USA TM 101 NE Third Avenue Suite 1500 Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33301 USA www . trifecta - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
