WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylactic / anaphylactoid reactions ( including shock and fatalities ) have been reported with the use of cefixime .
Before therapy with cefixime is instituted , careful inquiry should be made to determine whether the patient has had previous hypersensitivity reactions to cephalosporins , penicillins , or other drugs .
If this product is to be given to penicillin - sensitive patients , caution should be exercised because cross hypersensitivity among beta - lactam antibiotics has been clearly documented and may occur in up to 10 % of patients with a history of penicillin allergy .
If an allergic reaction to cefixime occurs , discontinue the drug .
5 . 2 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefixime , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing isolates of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibacterial use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibacterial use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibacterial treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 3 Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment The dose of cefixime should be adjusted in patients with renal impairment as well as those undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis ( CAPD ) and hemodialysis ( HD ) .
Patients on dialysis should be monitored carefully [ see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 4 Coagulation Effects Cephalosporins , including cefixime , may be associated with a fall in prothrombin activity .
Those at risk include patients with renal or hepatic impairment , or poor nutritional state , as well as patients receiving a protracted course of antimicrobial therapy , and patients previously stabilized on anticoagulant therapy .
Prothrombin time should be monitored in patients at risk and exogenous vitamin K administered as indicated .
5 . 5 Development of Drug - Resistant Bacteria Prescribing cefixime in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
Cefixime 400 mg UD Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
