Active Ingredients Avobenzone 2 . 50 % Homosalate 6 . 00 % Octisalate 5 . 00 % Octocrylene 7 . 00 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses ■ helps prevent sunburn ■ if used as directed with other sun protection measures ■ decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings ■ For external use only ■ Do not use on damaged or broken skin ■ When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
■ Stop use and contact a doctor if rash occurs ■ Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions ■ apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure ■ reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours ■ Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad - Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses ■ children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Storage and Handling Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol Denat ( Organic ) .
, Citrus Aurantium Begamia ( Bergamot ) Fruit Oil ( Organic ) , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Fragrance , Glycerin ( Organic ) , Panthenol , Cinnamidopropytrimonium Chloride , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Seed Extract , Oryza Sativa ( Rice ) Extract , Elaeis Guineensis ( Palm ) Fruit Extract , Xylitol , Plumeria Acutifolia Flower Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Laminaria Digitata Extract , Fucus Vesiculosus Extract , Water ( Aqua ) Questions or Comments Call 760 - 940 - 2125 SPF 30 70 % + Organic COOLA Scalp & Hair Mist Sunscreen Ocean Salted Sage Nourishes & Protects Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Water Resistant ( 80 Minutes ) 2 . 0 FL OZ / 60 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
