Active ingredient ( in each capsule ) Loratadine 10 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product do not take more than directed .
Taking more than directed may cause drowsiness .
Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 6 years and over 1 capsule daily ; not more than 1 capsule in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • Tamper - evident : do not use if foil seal under cap , printed with “ Sealed for your protection ” is missing , open or broken .
( For Bottle Labels and Cartons ) • Safety sealed : do not use if individual blister unit printed with Loratadine Capsule , 10 mg is open or torn .
( For Blister Carton ) • store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from freezing Inactive ingredients FD & C blue no . 1 , gelatin , glycerin , hypromellose , hydrolyzed collagen , isopropyl alcohol , mannitol , medium chain mono - & di - glycerides , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbitan , sorbitol , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
call toll free 1 - 888 - 235 - 2466 ( Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM EST ) † This product is not manufactured or distributed by the owners of Claritin ® LIQUI - GELS ® .
Blister carton contain the following : THIS PRODUCT IS PACKAGED IN A CHILD - RESISTANT AND TAMPER EVIDENT PACKAGE .
USE ONLY IF BLISTERS ARE INTACT .
KEEP OUTER CARTON FOR COMPLETE WARNINGS AND PRODUCT INFORMATION .
Do not use if carton is open , or if individual blister unit is open or torn Manufactured for : Bionpharma Inc .
600 Alexander Road , Princeton , NJ 08540 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
