Active ingredient Menthol 5 . 6 % ......
Purpose : Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic Uses Temporary relief from minor aches and pains of sore muscles and joints associated with : • arthrits • backache • strains • sprains Warnings • For external use only • Use only as directed • Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • Do not use with other ointments , creams , sprays , or liniments • Do not apply to irritated skin • Do not overwrap or wrap strips over themselves • Do not bandage or use with heating pad or device Ask doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if : You experience pain , swelling or blistering ; condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days When using • Use only as directed • Avoid contact with eyes or mucous membranes • Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • Do not use with other ointments , creams , sprays , or liniments • Do not apply to irritated skin • Do not overwrap or wrap strips over themselves • Wash hands after use with cool water • Do not bandage or use with heating pad or device Do not use • Do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • Do not use with other ointments , creams , sprays , or liniments • Do not apply to irritated skin • Do not overwrap or wrap strips over themselves • Do not bandage or use with heating pad or device Stop use Stop use and ask a doctor if : You experience pain , swelling or blistering ; condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days Pregnancy or breast feeding If pregnant or breastfeeding : Ask a health professional before use Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children : If accidentally ingested , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • Adult and Children 12 years of age and older : Clean and dry affected area , partially peel back protective film and apply exposed strip to site of pain .
Carefully remove remaining film while pressing the strip to the skin and leave in place for up to 4 hours .
Do not strech the strip during application as it should be comfortable and not tight .
Use on affected areas not more than 4 times daily .
For best adhesion : area should be clean , dry , and smooth .
• Children under 12 years of age : Consult physician Dosage forms & strengths This is a strip , patch dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 5 . 6 % .
Inactive ingredients Questions Questions or comments : 86 - 21 - 31166566 Other information • Store in a cool dry place away from direct sunlight Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
