Analgesic for Oral use Only Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are intended for oral use only .
Severe , potentially lethal , reactions may result from misuse of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
DESCRIPTIONPentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets USP contain pentazocine hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 50 mg base , a member of the benzazocine series ( also known as the benzomorphan series ) , and naloxone hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 0 . 5 mg base .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are an analgesic for oral administration .
Chemically , pentazocine hydrochloride is ( 2 R * , 6 R * , 11 R * ) - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - Hexahydro - 6 , 11 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenyl ) - 2 , 6 - methano - 3 - benzazocin - 8 - ol hydrochloride , a white , crystalline substance soluble in acidic aqueous solutions .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] PENTAZOCINE STRUCTURE IMAGE Chemically , naloxone hydrochloride is 17 - AIlyl - 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 , 14 - dihydroxymorphinan - 6 - one hydrochloride .
It is a slightly off - white powder , and is soluble in water and dilute acids .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] NALOXONE STRUCTURE IMAGE Each tablet , for oral administration , contains pentazocine hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 50 mg of pentazocine , and naloxone hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 0 . 5 mg of naloxone .
In addition each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , dibasic calcium phosphate , D and C Yellow No . 10 Al - lake , FD and C Blue No . 1 Al - lake , FD and C Yellow No . 6 Al - lake , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , and sodium lauryl sulfate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pentazocine is a potent analgesic which when administered orally in a 50 mg dose appears equivalent in analgesic effect to 60 mg ( 1 grain ) of codeine .
Onset of significant analgesia usually occurs between 15 and 30 minutes after oral administration , and duration of action is usually three hours or longer .
Onset and duration of action and the degree of pain relief are related both to dose and the severity of pretreatment pain .
Pentazocine weakly antagonizes the analgesic effects of morphine and meperidine ; in addition , it produces incomplete reversal of cardiovascular , respiratory , and behavioral depression induced by morphine and meperidine .
Pentazocine has about 1 / 50 the antagonistic activity of nalorphine .
It also has sedative activity .
Pentazocine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Concentrations in plasma coincide closely with the onset , duration , and intensity of analgesia ; peak values occur 1 to 3 hours after oral administration .
The half - life in plasma is 2 to 3 hours .
Pentazocine is metabolized in the liver and excreted primarily in the urine .
Pentazocine passes into the fetal circulation .
Naloxone when administered orally at 0 . 5 mg has no pharmacologic activity .
Naloxone hydrochloride administered parenterally at the same dose is an effective antagonist to pentazocine and a pure antagonist to narcotic analgesics .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are a potent analgesic when administered orally .
However the presence of naloxone in pentazocine and naloxone naloxone hydrochlorides tablets will prevent the effect of pentazocine if the product is misused by injection .
Studies in animals indicate that the presence of naloxone does not affect pentazocine analgesia when the combination is given orally .
If the combination is given by injection the action of pentazocine is neutralized .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are intended for oral use only .
Severe , potentially lethal , reactions may result from misuse of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to severe pain .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are indicated for oral use only .
CONTRAINDICATIONSPentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets should not be administered to patients who are hypersensitive to either pentazocine or naloxone .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are intended for oral use only .
Severe , potentially lethal , reactions may result from misuse of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
WARNINGSDrug Dependence .
Pentazocine can cause a physical and psychological dependence .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE . )
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure .
As in the case of other potent analgesics , the potential of pentazocine for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be attributed to CO2 retention due to the respiratory depressant effects of the drug .
These effects may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , pentazocine can produce effects which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
In such patients , pentazocine must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential .
Usage with Alcohol .
Due to the potential for increased CNS depressant effects , alcohol should be used with caution in patients who are currently receiving pentazocine .
Patients Receiving Narcotics .
Pentazocine is a mild narcotic antagonist .
Some patients previously given narcotics , including methadone for the daily treatment of narcotic dependence , have experienced withdrawal symptoms after receiving pentazocine .
Certain Respiratory Conditions .
Although respiratory depression has rarely been reported after oral administration of pentazocine , the drug should be administered with caution to patients with respiratory depression from any cause , severely limited respiratory reserve , severe bronchial asthma , and other obstructive respiratory conditions , or cyanosis .
Acute CNS Manifestations .
Patients receiving therapeutic doses of pentazocine have experienced hallucinations ( usually visual ) , disorientation , and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours .
The mechanism of this reaction is not known .
Such patients should be very closely observed and vital signs checked .
If the drug is reinstituted , it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur .
PRECAUTIONSCNS EffectCaution should be used when pentazocine is administered to patients prone to seizures ; seizures have occurred in a few such patients in association with the use of pentazocine though no cause and effect relationship has been established .
Impaired Renal or Hepatic FunctionDecreased metabolism of pentazocine by the liver in extensive liver disease may predispose to accentuation of side effects .
Although laboratory tests have not indicated that pentazocine causes or increases renal or hepatic impairment , the drug should be administered with caution to patients with such impairment .
In prescribing pentazocine for long - term use , the physician should take precautions to avoid increases in doses by the patient .
Biliary SurgeryNarcotic drug products are generally considered to elevate biliary tract pressure for varying periods following their administration .
Some evidence suggests that pentazocine may differ from other marketed narcotics in this respect ( i . e . , it causes little or no elevation in biliary tract pressures ) .
The clinical significance of these findings , however , is not yet known .
Information for PatientsSince sedation , dizziness , and occasional euphoria have been noted , ambulatory patients should be warned not to operate machinery , drive cars , or unnecessarily expose themselves to hazards .
Pentazocine may cause physical and psychological dependence when taken alone and may have additive CNS depressant properties when taken in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants .
Myocardial InfarctionAs with all drugs , pentazocine should be used with caution in patients with myocardial infarction who have nausea or vomiting .
Drug InteractionsUsage with Alcohol : See WARNINGS .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityNo long - term studies in animals to test for carcinogenesis have been performed with the components of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets .
Pregnancy Category CAnimal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides .
It is also not known whether pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
However , animal reproduction studies with pentazocine have not demonstrated teratogenic or embryotoxic effects .
Labor and DeliveryPatients receiving pentazocine during labor have experienced no adverse effects other than those that occur with commonly used analgesics .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets should be used with caution in women delivering premature infants .
The effect of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets on the mother and fetus , the duration of labor and delivery , the possibility that forceps delivery or other intervention or resuscitation of the newborn may be necessary , or the effect of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child are unknown at the present time .
Nursing MothersIt is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Geriatric UseControlled clinical studies of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses or effectiveness in analgesic activity between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONSCardiovascular : Hypotension , tachycardia , syncope .
Respiratory : Rarely , respiratory depression .
Acute CNS Manifestations : Patients receiving therapeutic doses of pentazocine have experienced hallucinations ( usually visual ) , disorientation , and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours .
The mechanism of this reaction is not known .
Such patients should be closely observed and vital signs checked .
If the drug is reinstituted it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur .
Other CNS Effects : Dizziness , lightheadedness , hallucinations , sedation , euphoria , headache , confusion , disorientation ; infrequently weakness , disturbed dreams , insomnia , syncope , visual blurring and focusing difficulty , depression ; and rarely tremor , irritability , excitement , tinnitus .
Autonomic : Sweating ; infrequently flushing ; and rarely chills .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea , vomiting , constipation , diarrhea , anorexia , rarely abdominal distress .
Allergic : Edema of the face ; dermatitis , including pruritus ; flushed skin , including plethora ; infrequently rash , and rarely urticaria .
Ophthalmic : Visual blurring and focusing difficulty .
Hematologic : Depression of white blood cells ( especially granulocytes ) , which is usually reversible , moderate transient eosinophilia .
Other : Headache , chills , insomnia , weakness , urinary retention , paresthesia , serious skin reactions , including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCEControlled Substance .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are a Schedule IV controlled substance .
There have been some reports of dependence and of withdrawal symptoms with orally administered pentazocine .
Patients with a history of drug dependence should be under close supervision while receiving pentazocine orally .
There have been rare reports of possible abstinence syndromes in newborns after prolonged use of pentazocine during pregnancy .
There have been instances of psychological and physical dependence on parenteral pentazocine in patients with a history of drug abuse and rarely , in patients without such a history .
Abrupt discontinuance following the extended use of parenteral pentazocine has resulted in withdrawal symptoms .
In prescribing pentazocine for chronic use , the physician should take precautions to avoid increases in dose by the patient .
The amount of naloxone present in pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets ( 0 . 5 mg per tablet ) has no action when taken orally and will not interfere with the pharmacologic action of pentazocine .
However , this amount of naloxone given by injection has profound antagonistic action to narcotic analgesics .
Severe , even lethal , consequences may result from misuse of tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances , such as pulmonary emboli , vascular occlusion , ulceration and abscesses , and withdrawal symptoms in narcotic dependent individuals .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets contain an opioid antagonist , naloxone ( 0 . 5 mg ) .
Naloxone is inactive when administered orally at this dose , and its inclusion in pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets is intended to curb a form of misuse of oral pentazocine .
Parenterally , naloxone is an active narcotic antagonist .
Thus , pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets have a lower potential for parenteral misuse than the previous oral pentazocine hydrochloride formulation .
However , it is still subject to patient misuse and abuse by the oral route .
OVERDOSAGEManifestations .
Clinical experience of overdosage with this oral medication has been insufficient to define the signs of this condition .
Treatment .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered .
For respiratory depression due to overdosage or unusual sensitivity to pentazocine , parenteral naloxone is a specific and effective antagonist .
Pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets are intended for oral use only .
Severe , potentially lethal , reactions may result from misuse of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets by injection either alone or in combination with other substances .
( See DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE section . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONAdults .
The usual initial adult dose is 1 tablet every three or four hours .
This may be increased to 2 tablets when needed .
Total daily dosage should not exceed 12 tablets .
When anti - inflammatory or antipyretic effects are desired in addition to analgesia , aspirin can be administered concomitantly with this product .
Pediatric Patients .
Since clinical experience in pediatric patients under 12 years of age is limited , administration of this product in this age group is not recommended .
Duration of Therapy .
Patients with chronic pain who receive pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets orally for prolonged periods have only rarely been reported to experience withdrawal symptoms when administration was abruptly discontinued ( see WARNINGS ) .
Tolerance to the analgesic effect of pentazocine has also been reported only rarely .
However , there is no long - term experience with the oral administration of pentazocine and naloxone hydrochlorides tablets .
HOW SUPPLIEDPentazocine and Naloxone Hydrochlorides Tablets USP are light green , scored , capsule shaped tablets debossed 395 to the left of the score , 50 over 0 . 5 to the right of the score and WATSON on the reverse side supplied in bottles of 100 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP . ]
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA 30158 - 4 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PENTAZOCINE - NALOXONE 50 MG 0 - 5 MG LABEL IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ]
