1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VABYSMO is a vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiopoietin 2 ( Ang - 2 ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with : VABYSMO is a vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with : • Neovascular ( Wet ) Age - Related Macular Degeneration ( nAMD ) ( 1 . 1 ) • Diabetic Macular Edema ( DME ) ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Neovascular ( wet ) Age - Related Macular Degeneration ( nAMD ) 1 . 2 Diabetic Macular Edema ( DME ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravitreal injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • Neovascular ( Wet ) Age - Related Macular Degeneration ( nAMD ) • The recommended dose for VABYSMO is 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) administered by intravitreal injection every 4 weeks ( approximately every 28 ± 7 days , monthly ) for the first 4 doses , followed by optical coherence tomography and visual acuity evaluations 8 and 12 weeks later to inform whether to give a 6 mg dose via intravitreal injection on one of the following three regimens : 1 ) Weeks 28 and 44 ; 2 ) Weeks 24 , 36 and 48 ; or 3 ) Weeks 20 , 28 , 36 and 44 .
Although additional efficacy was not demonstrated in most patients when VABYSMO was dosed every 4 weeks compared to every 8 weeks , some patients may need every 4 week ( monthly ) dosing after the first 4 doses .
Patients should be assessed regularly .
( 2 . 2 ) • Diabetic Macular Edema ( DME ) • VABYSMO is recommended to be dosed by following one of these two dose regimens : 1 ) 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) administered by intravitreal injection every 4 weeks ( approximately every 28 days ± 7 days , monthly ) for at least 4 doses .
If after at least 4 doses , resolution of edema based on the central subfield thickness ( CST ) of the macula as measured by optical coherence tomography is achieved , then the interval of dosing may be modified by extensions of up to 4 week interval increments or reductions of up to 8 week interval increments based on CST and visual acuity evaluations through week 52 ; or 2 ) 6 mg dose of VABYSMO can be administered every 4 weeks for the first 6 doses , followed by 6 mg dose via intravitreal injection at intervals of every 8 weeks ( 2 months ) over the next 28 weeks .
Although additional efficacy was not demonstrated in most patients when VABYSMO was dosed every 4 weeks compared to every 8 weeks , some patients may need every 4 week ( monthly ) dosing after the first 4 doses .
Patients should be assessed regularly .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information For intravitreal injection .
VABYSMO must be administered by a qualified physician .
Each vial should only be used for the treatment of a single eye .
2 . 2 Neovascular ( wet ) Age - Related Macular Degeneration ( nAMD ) The recommended dose for VABYSMO is 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) administered by intravitreal injection every 4 weeks ( approximately every 28 ± 7 days , monthly ) for the first 4 doses , followed by optical coherence tomography and visual acuity evaluations 8 and 12 weeks later to inform whether to give a 6 mg dose via intravitreal injection on one of the following three regimens : 1 ) Weeks 28 and 44 ; 2 ) Weeks 24 , 36 and 48 ; or 3 ) Weeks 20 , 28 , 36 and 44 .
Although additional efficacy was not demonstrated in most patients when VABYSMO was dosed every 4 weeks compared to every 8 weeks , some patients may need every 4 week ( monthly ) dosing after the first 4 doses .
Patients should be assessed regularly .
2 . 3 Diabetic Macular Edema ( DME ) VABYSMO is recommended to be dosed by following one of these two dose regimens : 1 ) 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) administered by intravitreal injection every 4 weeks ( approximately every 28 days ± 7 days , monthly ) for at least 4 doses .
If after at least 4 doses , resolution of edema based on the central subfield thickness ( CST ) of the macula as measured by optical coherence tomography is achieved , then the interval of dosing may be modified by extensions of up to 4 week interval increments or reductions of up to 8 week interval increments based on CST and visual acuity evaluations through week 52 ; or 2 ) 6 mg dose of VABYSMO can be administered every 4 weeks for the first 6 doses , followed by 6 mg dose via intravitreal injection at intervals of every 8 weeks ( 2 months ) over the next 28 weeks .
Although additional efficacy was not demonstrated in most patients when VABYSMO was dosed every 4 weeks compared to every 8 weeks , some patients may need every 4 week ( monthly ) dosing after the first 4 doses .
Patients should be assessed regularly .
2 . 4 Preparation for Administration • 1 .
Before you start : • Read all the instructions carefully before using VABYSMO .
• The VABYSMO kit includes a glass vial and transfer filter needle .
The glass vial is for a single dose only .
The filter needle is for single use only .
• VABYSMO should be stored refrigerated at temperatures between 2ºC to 8ºC ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
• Allow VABYSMO to reach room temperature , 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) before proceeding with the administration .
The VABYSMO vial may be kept at room temperature for up to 24 hours .
Keep the vial in the original carton to protect from light .
• VABYSMO should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
VABYSMO is a clear to opalescent and colorless to brownish - yellow liquid solution .
Do not use if particulates , cloudiness , or discoloration are visible .
Do not use if the packaging , vial and / or transfer filter needle are expired , damaged , or have been tampered with ( see Figure A ) .
• Use aseptic technique to carry out the preparation of the intravitreal injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A • 2 .
Gather the following supplies : • One VABYSMO vial ( included ) • One sterile 5 - micron blunt transfer filter needle 18 - gauge × 1 ½ inch ( included ) • One sterile 1 mL Luer lock syringe with a 0 . 05 mL dose mark ( not included ) • One sterile injection needle 30 - gauge × ½ inch ( not included ) • Note that a 30 - gauge injection needle is recommended to avoid increased injection forces that could be experienced with smaller diameter needles .
• Alcohol swab ( not included ) .
• 3 .
To ensure all liquid settles at the bottom of the vial , place the vial upright on a flat surface ( for about 1 minute ) after removal from packaging ( see Figure B ) .
Gently tap the vial with your finger ( see Figure C ) , as liquid may stick to the top of the vial .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C • 4 .
Remove the flip - off cap from the vial ( see Figure D ) and wipe the vial septum with an alcohol swab ( see Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E • 5 .
Aseptically and firmly attach the included 18 - gauge × 1 ½ inch transfer filter needle onto a 1 mL Luer lock syringe ( see Figure F ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure F • 6 .
Using aseptic technique , push the transfer filter needle into the center of the vial septum ( see Figure G ) , push it all the way in , then tilt the vial slightly so that the needle touches the bottom edge of the vial ( see Figure H ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure H • 7 .
Hold the vial slightly inclined and slowly withdraw all the liquid from the vial ( see Figure I ) .
Keep the bevel of the transfer filter needle submerged in the liquid , to avoid introduction of air .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure I • 8 .
Ensure that the plunger rod is drawn sufficiently back when emptying the vial , in order to completely empty the transfer filter needle ( see Figure I ) .
• 9 .
Disconnect the transfer filter needle from the syringe and dispose of it in accordance with local regulations .
• Do not use the transfer filter needle for the intravitreal injection .
• 10 .
Aseptically and firmly attach a 30 - gauge × ½ inch injection needle onto the Luer lock syringe ( see Figure J ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure J • 11 .
Carefully remove the plastic needle shield from the needle by pulling it straight off .
• 12 .
To check for air bubbles , hold the syringe with the needle pointing up .
If there are any air bubbles , gently tap the syringe with your finger until the bubbles rise to the top ( see Figure K ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure K • 13 .
Carefully expel the air from the syringe and needle , and slowly depress the plunger to align the rubber stopper tip to the 0 . 05 mL dose mark .
The syringe is ready for the injection ( see Figure L ) .
Ensure that the injection is given immediately after preparation of the dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure L [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 . 5 Injection Procedure The intravitreal injection procedure must be carried out under aseptic conditions , which includes the use of surgical hand disinfection , sterile gloves , a sterile drape and a sterile eyelid speculum ( or equivalent ) , and the availability of sterile paracentesis equipment ( if required ) .
Adequate anesthesia and a broad - spectrum microbicide should be administered prior to the injection .
Inject slowly until the rubber stopper reaches the end of the syringe to deliver the volume of 0 . 05 mL .
Confirm delivery of the full dose by checking that the rubber stopper has reached the end of the syringe barrel .
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local regulations .
Immediately following the intravitreal injection , patients should be monitored for elevation in intraocular pressure .
Appropriate monitoring may consist of a check for perfusion of the optic nerve head or tonometry .
If required , a sterile paracentesis needle should be available .
Following intravitreal injection , patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment ( e . g . , vision loss , eye pain , redness of the eye , photophobia , blurring of vision ) without delay [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
Each syringe should only be used for the treatment of a single eye .
If the contralateral eye requires treatment , a new syringe should be used and the sterile field , syringe , gloves , drapes , eyelid speculum , filter , and injection needles should be changed before VABYSMO is administered to the other eye .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 120 mg / mL clear to opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 120 mg / mL solution in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Ocular or periocular infection ( 4 . 1 ) • Active intraocular inflammation ( 4 . 2 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 4 . 3 ) 4 . 1 Ocular or Periocular Infections VABYSMO is contraindicated in patients with ocular or periocular infections .
4 . 2 Active Intraocular Inflammation VABYSMO is contraindicated in patients with active intraocular inflammation .
4 . 3 Hypersensitivity VABYSMO is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to faricimab or any of the excipients in VABYSMO .
Hypersensitivity reactions may manifest as rash , pruritus , urticaria , erythema , or severe intraocular inflammation .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Endophthalmitis and retinal detachments may occur following intravitreal injections .
Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment without delay , to permit prompt and appropriate management .
( 5 . 1 ) • Increases in intraocular pressure have been seen within 60 minutes of an intravitreal injection .
( 5 . 2 ) • There is a potential risk of arterial thromboembolic events ( ATEs ) associated with VEGF inhibition .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Endophthalmitis and Retinal Detachments Intravitreal injections have been associated with endophthalmitis and retinal detachments [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Proper aseptic injection techniques must always be used when administering VABYSMO .
Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms suggestive of endophthalmitis or retinal detachment without delay , to permit prompt and appropriate management [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Increase in Intraocular Pressure Transient increases in intraocular pressure ( IOP ) have been seen within 60 minutes of intravitreal injection , including with VABYSMO [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
IOP and the perfusion of the optic nerve head should be monitored and managed appropriately [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Thromboembolic Events Although there was a low rate of arterial thromboembolic events ( ATEs ) observed in the VABYSMO clinical trials , there is a potential risk of ATEs following intravitreal use of VEGF inhibitors .
ATEs are defined as nonfatal stroke , nonfatal myocardial infarction , or vascular death ( including deaths of unknown cause ) .
The incidence of reported ATEs in the nAMD studies during the first year was 1 % ( 7 out of 664 ) in patients treated with VABYSMO compared with 1 % ( 6 out of 662 ) in patients treated with aflibercept [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The incidence of reported ATEs in the DME studies during the first year was 2 % ( 25 out of 1 , 262 ) in patients treated with VABYSMO compared with 2 % ( 14 out of 625 ) in patients treated with aflibercept [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following potentially serious adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypersensitivity [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Endophthalmitis and retinal detachments [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Increase in intraocular pressure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Thromboembolic events [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] The most common adverse reaction ( ≥ 5 % ) reported in patients receiving VABYSMO was conjunctival hemorrhage ( 7 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Genentech at 1 - 888 - 835 - 2555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical trials of the same or another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to VABYSMO in 1 , 926 patients , which constituted the safety population in four Phase 3 studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 , 14 . 2 ) ] .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 1 % ) Adverse Reactions VABYSMO Active Control ( aflibercept ) AMD N = 664 DME N = 1262 AMD N = 622 DME N = 625 Conjunctival hemorrhage 7 % 7 % 8 % 6 % Vitreous floaters 3 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Retinal pigment epithelial tear [ 1 ] 3 % 1 % Intraocular pressure increased 3 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Eye pain 3 % 2 % 3 % 3 % Intraocular inflammation [ 2 ] 2 % 1 % 1 % 1 % Eye irritation 1 % 1 % < 1 % 1 % Ocular discomfort 1 % 1 % < 1 % < 1 % Vitreous hemorrhage < 1 % 1 % 1 % < 1 % [ 1 ] AMD only [ 2 ] Including iridocyclitis , iritis , uveitis , vitritis Less common adverse reactions reported in < 1 % of the patients treated with VABYSMO were corneal abrasion , eye pruritus , lacrimation increased , ocular hyperemia , blurred vision , eye irritation , sensation of foreign body , endophthalmitis , visual acuity reduced transiently , retinal tear and rhegmatogenous retinal detachment .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity The immunogenicity of VABYSMO was evaluated in plasma samples .
The immunogenicity data reflect the percentage of patients whose test results were considered positive for antibodies to VABYSMO in immunoassays .
The detection of an immune response is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assays used , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies to VABYSMO with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading .
There is a potential for an immune response in patients treated with VABYSMO .
In the nAMD and DME studies , the pre - treatment incidence of anti - faricimab antibodies was approximately 1 . 8 % and 0 . 8 % , respectively .
After initiation of dosing , anti - faricimab antibodies were detected in approximately 10 . 4 % and 8 . 4 % of patients with nAMD and DME respectively , treated with VABYSMO across studies and across treatment groups .
As with all therapeutic proteins , there is a potential for immunogenicity with VABYSMO .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of VABYSMO administration in pregnant women .
Administration of VABYSMO to pregnant monkeys throughout the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of abortions at intravenous ( IV ) doses 158 times the human exposure ( based on Cmax ) of the maximum recommended human dose [ see Animal Data ] .
Based on the mechanism of action of VEGF and Ang - 2 inhibitors , there is a potential risk to female reproductive capacity , and to embryo - fetal development .
VABYSMO should not be used during pregnancy unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , and other adverse outcomes .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects is 2 % - 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % - 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data An embryo fetal developmental toxicity study was performed on pregnant cynomolgus monkeys .
Pregnant animals received 5 weekly IV injections of VABYSMO starting on day 20 of gestation at 1 or 3 mg / kg .
A non - dose dependent increase in pregnancy loss ( abortions ) was observed at both doses evaluated .
Serum exposure ( Cmax ) in pregnant monkeys at the low dose of 1 mg / kg was 158 times the human exposure at the maximum recommended intravitreal dose of 6 mg once every 4 weeks .
A no observed adverse effect level ( NOAEL ) was not identified in this study .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of faricimab in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Many drugs are transferred in human milk with the potential for absorption and adverse reactions in the breastfed child .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for VABYSMO and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from VABYSMO .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Contraception Females of reproductive potential are advised to use effective contraception prior to the initial dose , during treatment and for at least 3 months following the last dose of VABYSMO .
Infertility No studies on the effects of faricimab on human fertility have been conducted and it is not known whether faricimab can affect reproduction capacity .
Based on the mechanism of action , treatment with VABYSMO may pose a risk to reproductive capacity .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of VABYSMO in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the four clinical studies , approximately 60 % ( 1 , 149 / 1 , 929 ) of patients randomized to treatment with VABYSMO were ≥ 65 years of age .
No significant differences in efficacy or safety of faricimab were seen with increasing age in these studies .
No dose adjustment is required in patients 65 years and above .
11 DESCRIPTION Faricimab - svoa is a humanized bispecific immunoglobulin G1 ( IgG1 ) antibody that binds both vascular endothelial growth factor A ( VEGF - A ) and angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) .
The fragment crystallizable ( Fc ) region of faricimab was engineered by selected point mutations to abolish binding interactions with Fcγ and FcRn receptors .
Faricimab - svoa has a total molecular weight of approximately 149 kDa and is produced by recombinant DNA technology using mammalian Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cell culture .
VABYSMO ( faricimab - svoa ) injection is a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow solution in a single - dose glass vial for intravitreal administration .
Each single - dose vial is designed to deliver 0 . 05 mL ( 50 microliters ) of solution containing 6 mg faricimab - svoa , L - histidine ( 155 mcg ) , L - methionine ( 52 . 2 mcg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 20 mcg ) , sodium chloride ( 73 . 1 mcg ) , D - sucrose ( 2 . 74 mg ) and Water for Injection , adjusted to pH 5 . 5 with acetic acid .
The product does not contain an anti - microbial preservative .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Faricimab is a humanized bispecific antibody that acts through inhibition of two pathways by binding to VEGF - A and Ang - 2 .
By inhibiting VEGF - A , faricimab suppresses endothelial cell proliferation , neovascularization and vascular permeability .
By inhibiting Ang - 2 , faricimab is thought to promote vascular stability and desensitize blood vessels to the effects of VEGF - A .
Ang - 2 levels are increased in some patients with nAMD and DME .
The contribution of Ang - 2 inhibition to the treatment effect and clinical response for nAMD and DME has yet to be established .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Increased retinal thickness , assessed by optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) , is associated with nAMD and DME .
Leakage of blood and fluid from choroidal neovascularization , assessed by fluorescein angiography , is associated with nAMD .
Reductions in central subfield thickness ( CST ) were observed from baseline through the first year of treatment across all treatment arms in the four Phase 3 studies in nAMD and DME .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption / Distribution Maximum faricimab plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) are estimated to occur approximately 2 days post - dose .
Mean ( ± SD ) free faricimab ( unbound to VEGF - A and Ang - 2 ) plasma Cmax are estimated to be 0 . 23 ( 0 . 07 ) mcg / mL and 0 . 22 ( 0 . 07 ) mcg / mL in nAMD and in DME patients , respectively .
After repeated intravitreal administrations , mean plasma free faricimab trough concentrations are predicted to be 0 . 002 - 0 . 003 mcg / mL for Q8W dosing .
Although not directly measured in the vitreous , no accumulation of faricimab is expected in the vitreous and no accumulation has been observed in plasma when faricimab has been administered as repeat doses in the vitreous .
Metabolism / Elimination Metabolism and elimination of faricimab has not been fully characterized .
Faricimab is expected to be catabolized in lysosomes to small peptides and amino acids , which may be excreted renally , in a similar manner to the elimination of endogenous IgG .
The estimated mean apparent systemic half - life of faricimab is 7 . 5 days .
Specific Populations The systemic pharmacokinetics of faricimab were not influenced by gender , race , or mild to severe renal impairment ( i . e . , estimated normalized creatinine clearance by Cockroft - Gault equation : 15 to 89 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
The effect of severe renal impairment or any degree of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of VABYSMO is unknown .
No special dosage modification is required for any of the populations that have been studied ( e . g . , elderly , gender , race ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No carcinogenicity or mutagenicity data are available for VABYSMO injection in animals or humans .
Based on the anti - VEGF and Ang - 2 mechanisms of action , treatment with VABYSMO may pose a risk to reproductive capacity [ see Females and Males of Reproductive Potential ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Neovascular ( wet ) Age - Related Macular Degeneration ( nAMD ) The safety and efficacy of VABYSMO were assessed in two randomized , multi - center , double - masked , active comparator - controlled , 2 - year studies ( TENAYA – NCT03823287 and LUCERNE – NCT03823300 ) in patients with nAMD .
A total of 1 , 329 newly diagnosed , treatment - naive patients were enrolled in these studies , and 664 patients received at least one dose of VABYSMO .
Patient ages ranged from 50 to 99 with a mean of 75 . 9 years .
The studies were identically designed two year studies .
Patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to one of two treatment arms : 1 ) aflibercept 2 mg administered fixed every 8 weeks ( Q8W ) after three initial monthly doses ; and VABYSMO 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) administered by intravitreal injection every 4 weeks ( approximately every 28 ± 7 days , monthly ) for the first 4 doses , followed by optical coherence tomography and visual acuity evaluations 8 and 12 weeks later to determine whether to give a 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) dose via intravitreal injection on one of the following three regimens : 1 ) Weeks 28 and 44 ; ( also referred to as Q16W dosing ) ; 2 ) Weeks 24 , 36 and 48 ( also referred to as Q12W dosing ) ; or 3 ) Weeks 20 , 28 , 36 and 44 ( also referred to as Q8W dosing ) .
However , the utility of these criteria to guide dosing intervals has not been established .
At week 48 , after 4 initial monthly doses in the VABYSMO arm , 45 % of patients received the Weeks 28 and 44 dosing , 33 % of patients received the Weeks 24 , 36 and 48 dosing , and the remaining 22 % of patients received dosing every 8 weeks .
These percentages are reflective of what happened within the conduct of these trials and indicate that some patients did well on two ( 2 ) doses spaced 16 weeks apart , or three ( 3 ) doses spaced 12 weeks apart , but the percentages may not be generalizable to a broader nAMD population for a variety of reasons .
The inclusion / exclusion criteria limited enrollment to a select subset of treatment naive , newly diagnosed nAMD patients and there is no empirical data that a similar magnitude would be observed if eligibility criteria allowed for broader enrollment .
The disease activity criteria , which was instrumental in determining dose frequency , is unvalidated .
Stricter criteria would have changed how patients were treated resulting in different percentages of subjects in each dose interval cohort .
There was not a similarly dosed aflibercept arm for comparison , which makes the percentages difficult to interpret .
Both studies demonstrated non - inferiority to the comparator control ( aflibercept ) at the primary endpoint , defined as the mean change from baseline in Best Corrected Visual Acuity ( BCVA ) when averaged over the week 40 , 44 , and 48 visits and measured by the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study ( ETDRS ) letter chart .
The primary endpoint analysis was a non - inferiority comparison for the mean change in BCVA between the aflibercept and the VABYSMO arm .
The lower bound of the 95 % confidence interval for the mean change in BCVA could not be lower than minus 4 letters to declare non - inferiority .
In both studies , VABYSMO treated patients had a non - inferior mean change from baseline in BCVA compared to patients treated with aflibercept .
Detailed results of both studies are shown in Table 2 , Figure 1 , and Figure 2 below .
The clinical efficacy for the second year of the study has not been reviewed .
Table 2 : Primary Endpoint Results [ 1 ] in the TENAYA and LUCERNE Studies TENAYA LUCERNE VABYSMO N = 334 Aflibercept N = 337 VABYSMO N = 331 Aflibercept N = 327 BCVA : Best Corrected Visual Acuity ETDRS : Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study CI : Confidence Interval LS : Least Square Mean change in BCVA as measured by ETDRS letter score from baseline ( 95 % CI ) 5 . 8 ( 4 . 6 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 ( 3 . 9 , 6 . 4 ) 6 . 6 ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 8 ) 6 . 6 ( 5 . 3 , 7 . 8 ) Difference in LS mean ( 95 % CI ) 0 . 7 ( - 1 . 1 , 2 . 5 ) 0 . 0 ( - 1 . 7 , 1 . 8 ) [ 1 ] Average of weeks 40 , 44 and 48 Figure 1 : Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline to Week 48 in TENAYA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline to Week 48 in LUCERNE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Treatment effects in evaluable subgroups ( e . g . , age , gender , race , baseline visual acuity ) in each study were consistent with the results in the overall population .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Diabetic Macular Edema ( DME ) The safety and efficacy of VABYSMO were assessed in two randomized , multi - center , double - masked , active comparator - controlled 2 - year studies ( YOSEMITE – NCT03622580 and RHINE – NCT03622593 ) in patients with DME .
A total of 1 , 891 diabetic patients were enrolled in the two studies with a total of 1 , 262 patients treated with at least one dose of VABYSMO .
Patient ages ranged from 24 to 91 with a mean of 62 . 2 years .
The overall population included both anti - VEGF naive patients ( 78 % ) and patients who had been previously treated with a VEGF inhibitor prior to study participation ( 22 % ) .
The studies were identically designed 2 year studies .
Patients were randomized in a 1 : 1 : 1 ratio to one of three treatment regimens : 1 ) aflibercept Q8W , patients received fixed aflibercept 2 mg administered every 8 weeks ( Q8W ) after the first five monthly doses ; 2 ) VABYSMO Q8W , patients received fixed VABYSMO 6 mg administered Q8W after the first six monthly doses ; and 3 ) VABYSMO Variable , patients received VABYSMO 6 mg administered every 4 weeks for at least 4 doses and until the central subfield thickness ( CST ) of the macula measured by optical coherence tomography was less than approximately 325 microns , then the interval of dosing was modified by up to 4 week interval extensions or reductions in up to 8 week interval increments based on CST and visual acuity disease activity criteria at study drug dosing visits .
However , the utility of these disease activity criteria to guide dosing intervals has not been established .
After 4 initial monthly doses , the patients in the VABYSMO Variable arm could have received between the minimum of three and the maximum of eleven total injections through Week 56 inclusive .
At Week 56 , 32 % of patients had completed at least one Q12W interval followed by one full Q16W interval .
Seventeen percent ( 17 % ) of patients were treated on Q8W and / or Q4W dosing intervals through Week 56 ( 7 % only on Q4W ) .
Sustainability of the Q16W dosing interval cannot be determined based on year one data alone .
These percentages are reflective of what happened within the conduct of these trials , but the percentages are not generalizable to a broader DME population for a variety of reasons .
The inclusion / exclusion criteria limited enrollment to a select subset of DME patients and there is no empirical data that a similar magnitude would be observed if eligibility criteria allowed for broader enrollment .
The disease activity criteria , which was instrumental in determining dose frequency , is unvalidated .
Stricter criteria would have changed how patients were treated resulting in different percentages of subjects in each dose interval cohort .
There was not a similarly dosed aflibercept arm for comparison which makes the percentages difficult to interpret .
Both studies demonstrated non - inferiority to the comparator control ( aflibercept ) at the primary endpoint , defined as the primary endpoint , defined as the mean change from baseline in BCVA at year 1 ( average of the week 48 , 52 , and 56 visits ) , measured by the ETDRS Letter Score .
The primary endpoint analysis was a non - inferiority comparison for the mean change in BCVA between the aflibercept and VABYSMO groups .
The lower bound of the 97 . 5 % confidence interval for the mean change in BCVA could not be lower than minus 4 letters to declare non - inferiority .
In both studies , VABYSMO Q8W and VABYSMO Variable treated patients had a mean change from baseline in BCVA that was non - inferior to the patients treated with aflibercept Q8W .
Detailed results of both studies are shown in Table 3 , Figure 3 , and Figure 4 below .
The clinical efficacy for the second year of the study has not been reviewed .
Table 3 : Primary Endpoint Results [ 1 ] in the YOSEMITE and RHINE Studies YOSEMITE RHINE VABYSMO Q8W N = 315 VABYSMO Variable N = 313 Aflibercept Q8W N = 312 VABYSMO Q8W N = 317 VABYSMO Variable N = 319 Aflibercept Q8W N = 315 BCVA : Best Corrected Visual Acuity ETDRS : Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study CI : Confidence Interval LS : Least Square Mean change in BCVA as measured by ETDRS letter score from baseline ( 97 . 5 % CI ) 10 . 7 ( 9 . 4 , 12 . 0 ) 11 . 6 ( 10 . 3 , 12 . 9 ) 10 . 9 ( 9 . 6 , 12 . 2 ) 11 . 8 ( 10 . 6 , 13 . 0 ) 10 . 8 ( 9 . 6 , 11 . 9 ) 10 . 3 ( 9 . 1 , 11 . 4 ) Difference in LS mean ( 97 . 5 % CI ) - 0 . 2 ( - 2 . 0 , 1 . 6 ) 0 . 7 ( - 1 . 1 , 2 . 5 ) 1 . 5 ( - 0 . 1 , 3 . 2 ) 0 . 5 ( - 1 . 1 , 2 . 1 ) [ 1 ] Average of weeks 48 , 52 , 56 Figure 3 : Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline to Year 1 ( Week 56 ) in YOSEMITE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Mean Change in Visual Acuity from Baseline to Year 1 ( Week 56 ) in RHINE [ MULTIMEDIA ] Treatment effects in the subgroup of patients who were anti - VEGF naive prior to study participation were similar to those observed in the overall population .
Treatment effects in evaluable subgroups ( e . g . , by age , gender , race , baseline HbA1c , baseline visual acuity ) in each study were generally consistent with the results in the overall population .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied VABYSMO ( faricimab - svoa ) injection is supplied as a clear to opalescent , colorless to brownish - yellow 120 mg / mL solution in a single - dose glass vial .
Each glass vial contains an overfill amount to allow for administration of a single 0 . 05 mL dose of solution containing 6 mg of VABYSMO .
Each VABYSMO carton ( NDC 50242 - 096 - 01 ) contains one glass vial and one sterile 5 - micron blunt transfer filter needle ( 18 - gauge × 1 ½ inch , 1 . 2 mm × 40 mm ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store VABYSMO in the refrigerator between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
Keep the vial in the original carton to protect from light .
Prior to use , the unopened glass vial of VABYSMO may be kept at room temperature , 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , for up to 24 hours .
Ensure that the injection is given immediately after preparation of the dose .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients that in the days following VABYSMO administration , patients are at risk of developing endophthalmitis .
If the eye becomes red , sensitive to light , painful , or develops a change in vision , advise the patient to seek immediate care from an ophthalmologist [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Patients may experience temporary visual disturbances after an intravitreal injection with VABYSMO and the associated eye examinations [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Advise patients not to drive or use machinery until visual function has recovered sufficiently .
VABYSMO ™ [ faricimab - svoa ] Manufactured by : Genentech , Inc .
A Member of the Roche Group 1 DNA Way South San Francisco , CA 94080 - 4990 U . S . License No . : 1048 VABYSMO is a trademark of Genentech , Inc . © 2022 Genentech , Inc .
Representative sample of labeling ( see the HOW SUPPLIED section for complete listing ) : PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 6 mg Vial Carton Vabysmo ™ ( faricimab - svoa ) Injection NDC 50242 - 096 - 01 6 mg ( 0 . 05 mL of 120 mg / mL solution ) For Intravitreal Injection .
Single - Dose Vial .
Discard Unused Portion .
1 single - dose vial 1 transfer filter needle Rx only Genentech 10239448 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
