Active ingredients Petrolatum 31 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Octinoxate 6 . 75 % Octisalate 4 . 5 % Octocrylene 2 . 0 % Oxybenzone 5 . 4 % Purpose Skin Protectant Sunscreen Uses • temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked lips • helps protect lips from the drying effects of wind and cold weather • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions For sunscreen use : • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients C18 - 38 Alkyl Hydroxystearoyl Stearate , Octyldodecanol , Glycerin , Ricinus Communis ( Castor ) Seed Oil , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Panthenol , Water , Polyglyceryl - 3 Diisostearate , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Tocopheryl Acetate , Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Beeswax , C20 - 40 Alkyl Stearate , Magnesium Sulfate , Magnesium Stearate , BHT .
Questions 800 - 227 - 4703 Aquaphor Lip Protectant + Sunscreen Repairs and Protects For severly dry lips Broad Spectrum SPF 30 Immediately soothes and helps heal severely dry lips Fragrance free and Paraben free .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
