Active ingredient Sterile Water 99 % Purpose Eyewash Uses • For flushing the eye to remove loose foreign material , air pollutants , or chlorinated water Warnings For external use only - Obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near the eyes .
To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Once opened , discard .
Do not use • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , get medical help right away Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the ey • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • remove contacts before using • twist top to remove • flush the affected area as needed • control rate of flow by pressure on the bottle • if necessary , continue flushing with emergency eyewash or shower Inactive Ingredients sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Questions ?
Call 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Honeywell Safety Products USA , Inc .
Smithfield , RI 02917 First Aid Burn Cream Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride o . 13 % Lidocaine HCl 0 . 5 % First Aid Burn Cream Purpose First aid antiseptic External analgesic First Aid Burn Cream Uses • prevent skin infection • for temporary relief of pain associated with minor burns First Aid Burn Cream Warnings For external use only Do not use • in or near the eyes • if you are allergic to any of the ingredients • in large areas of the body , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas • for more than 10 days Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occurs again within a few days First Aid Burn Cream Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of this product ( equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) onto affected area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • tamper evident sealed packets • do not use if packet is opened or torn Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis juice , cetyl alcohol , diazolidinyl urea , edetate disodium , glycerin , glyceryl stearate SE , methylparaben , mineral oil , PEG - 100 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , stearic acid , trolamine , water Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 BZK Antiseptic Wipe Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % BZK Purpose First aid antiseptic BZK Uses Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands , and body without soap and water BZK Warnings For external use only BZK Do not use • in the eyes or over large areas of the body • on mucous membranes • on irritated skin • in case of deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a doctor • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • if irritation , redness or other symptoms develop • the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
BZK Directions • .
tear open packet and use as a washcloth BZK Other information • store at room temperature 15 o to 30 o C ( 59 o - 86 oF ) • do not reuse towelette BZK Inactive ingredients water BZK Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Aypanal Active igredient Acetaminophen 325 mg Aypanal Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Aypanal Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold and headache • temporarily reduces fever Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Aypanal Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take : more than 4 , 000 mg in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount - child takes Allergy alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : skin reddening blisters rash Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin if preganat or breast feeding ask a health professional before use Keep out of rech of children Keep out of reach of children Overdose Warning Overdose warning : In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Aypanal Directions • do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years of age or older • take two tablets every 4 - 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years of age or older • take two tablets every 4 - 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours • children 6 to under 12 years of age • take 1 tablet every 4 - 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours • children under 6 years • consult a doctor Aypanal Other information store at room temperature 15 o to 30 o C ( 59 o - 86 oF ) TAMPER EVIDENT PACKETS - DO NOT USE IF OPEN OR TORN Aypanal Inactive ingredients corn starch , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid .
Aypanal Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Sting Relief Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 50 . 0 % Lidocaine HCl 2 . 0 % Sting Relief Purpose Antiseptic Topical pain relief Sting Relief Uses • prevent infection in minor scrapes , and temporary relief of itching of insect bites Sting Relief Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from open fire or flame Do not use • over large areas of the body • in eyes • over raw or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor • if conditions worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Sting Relief Directions • adults and children 2 years and older : Apply to cleaned affected area not more than 3 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
Sting Relief Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , menthol , and purified water Sting relief Questions or Comments 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Active ingredient Neomycin sulfate ( 5 mg equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Purpose First aid antibiotic Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Uses first aid to help prevent infection in - minor cuts - scrapes - burns Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Other information store at 15 o to 25 oC ( 59 o to 77 oF ) Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Inactive ingredient petrolatum Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4132 SF00003655 Kit Contents 1 GAUZE PADS , 3 " X 3 " , 4 PER 1 TWEEZER PLASTICS 4 " 1 FIRST AID GUIDE ASHI 2 GAUZE CLEAN - WRAP BDGE N / S 2 " 1 GAUZE CLEAN - WRAP BDGE N / S 3 " 1 ABD COMBINE PAD 5 " X 9 " 1 CPR FILTERSHIELD 77 - 100 1 BAGGED COMP MISC 1 1 OZ , BUFF EYEWASH 1 SCISSOR BDGE 4 " RED PLS HDL LBL STOCK 6 - 3 / 8 " X4 " LBL STOCK 4 " X2 - 7 / 8 " 1 LBL STOCK 3 " x1 - 7 / 8 " 2 PR LRG NITRILE GLVES ZIP BAG 2 1 " X 3 " PLASTIC BANDS 16 / BAG 2 TAPE ADHESIVE 1 / 2 X 2 . 5 125133 1 ADH BNDG PLASTIC EX - LG 4 " X 2 " 1 KIT , PP 16 UNIT FA 1 LBL CONTENTS ANSI Z308 . 1 - 2009 REV B 1 TRI BNDG NON WOVEN 40 " X40 " X56 " 1 COLD PACK UNIT 4 " X6 " BULK 4 GAUZE PADS 2 " X2 " 12 PLY 1 EYE PADS STD OVAL STERILE 3 WOVEN FINGERTIP BANDAGE 2 " 2 WOVEN KNUCKLE BANDAGE Eye Wash Package label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] First Aid Burn Cream Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BZK Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aypanal Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sting Relief Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin Antibiotic Ointment Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4132 Kit Label SF00003655 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
