Burn Jel Active ingredient Lidocaine HCl 2 . 0 % Burn Jel Purpose External analgesic Burn Jel Uses • temporarily relieves pain due to minor burns Burn Jel Warnings For external use only Do not use • on large areas of the body , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition gets worse • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • condition clears up and recurs within a few days Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Burn Jel Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older ; apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • you may report a serious reaction to this product to 800 - 430 - 5490 Burn Jel Other information • store at room temperature • do not use if opened or torn Burn Jel Inactive ingredients carbopol 940 , carbopol 1342 , diazolidinyl urea , glycerin , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , methylparaben , octoxynol - 9 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , trolamine , water ... Burn Jel Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Povidone Iodine Swab Active ingredient Povidone - iodine solution USP , 10 % ( equivalent to 1 % titratable iodine ) Povidone Iodine Swab Purpose First aid antiseptic Povidone Iodine Swab Uses • first aid to help prevent the risk of infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns Povidone Iodine Swab Warnings For external use only Do not use • over large areas of the body • on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds , • animal bites • serious burns When using this product • do not use longer than one wek unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • conditions persists or gets worse • irritation and redness develops Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Povidone Iodine Swab Directions Reverse cardboard sleeve , then crush at dot between thumb and forefinger .
Allow solution to saturate tip and apply solution to injury .
• clean affected area • apply to affected area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • discard swab after single use Povidone Iodine Swab Other information • store at room temperature away from light • keep from freezing or excessive heat • do not use if package is torn or open Povidone Iodine Swab Inactive ingredients citric acid , disodium phosphate , nonoxynol - 9 , sodium hydroxide , water Povidone Iodine Swab Questions and comments 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Aypanal Active ingredient Acetaminophen 325 mg Aypanal Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Aypanaly Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold and headache - temporarily reduces fever Aypanal Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take : • more than 4 , 000 mg in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • child takes more than 5 doses in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount • taken with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product : Allergy alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : • skin reddening • blisters • rash • If a skin rash occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away .
Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
• If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if • you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop using and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days in adults • pain gets worse or lasts more than 5 days in children under 12 years • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • redness or swelling is present • new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Overdose warning • In case of accidental overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
Aypanal Directions do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) adults and children 12 years of age or older • take two tablets every 4 - 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 12 tablets in 24 hours children 6 to under 12 years of age • take 1 tablet every 4 - 6 hours while symptoms last • do not take more than 5 tablets in 24 hours children under 6 years consult a doctor Aypanal Other information • store at room temperature 15 0 to 30 0 C ( 59 0 - 86 0 F ) • TAMPER EVIDENT PACKETS - DO NOT USE IF OPEN OR TORN Aypanal Inactive ingredients corn starch , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid Aypanal Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Triple Active ingredients ( eeach gram contains ) Bacitracin zinc 400 units Neomycin sulfate ( 5 mg equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B sulfate 5000 units Triple Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Triple Uses • first aid to help prevent infection in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Triple Warnings For external use only Allergy alert do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • a deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Triple Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Triple Other information • store at 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) • tamper evident sealed packets • do not use if packet is torn or opened Triple Inactive ingredient petrolatum Triple Questions ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Sting Relief Active ingredient ( in each wipe ) Ethyl alcohol 50 . 0 % Lidocaine HCl 2 . 0 % Sting Relief Purpose Antiseptic Topical pain relief Sting Relief Uses • prevent infection in minor scrapes , and temporary relief of itching of insect bites Sting Relief Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from open fire or flame Do not use • over large areas of the body • in eyes • over raw or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor • if conditions worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Sting Relief Directions • adults and children 2 years and older : Apply to cleaned affected area not more than 3 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
Sting Relief Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , menthol , and purified water Sting Relief Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 BZK Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % w / v BZK Purpose First aid antiseptic BZK Uses Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands , and body without soap and water BZK Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes or over large areas of the body • on mucous membranes • on irritated skin • in case of deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a doctor • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if • if irritation , redness or other symptoms develop • the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away BZK Directions • tear open packet and use as a washcloth BZK Other information • store at room temperature 15 0 to 30 0 C ( 59 0 - 86 0 F ) • do not reuse towelette BZK Inactive ingredients water BZK Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4364 SF00003201 Kit Contents 1 TRIPLE ANTIBIOTIC 10 PER 1 EYE DRESS PKT W / 4 ADH STRIPS 2 TRIANGULAR BDG , NON - STERILE 1 WIRE SPLINT 1 PER 1 GAUZE PADS , 3 " X 3 " , 4 PER 1 ADH TAPE , . 5 " X 2 . 5 YD , 2 PER 1 AYPANAL 26 PER 1 GAUZE BANDAGE , 2 " X 6 YD , 2 PER 1 INSTANT COLD PACK 4 " X 6 " 1 ADHESIVE BDG , PLSTIC , 1 " X3 " 16 PER 1 FINGERTIP BANDAGE , 10 PER 1 BURN JEL 1 / 8 OZ , 6 PER 1 PVP IODINE WIPES 10 PER 1 STING RELIEF WIPES 10 PER BOX 1 ANTIMCRBL ANTSPTC TWLETTS 1 FIRST AID GUIDE ASHI 1 SCISSOR BDGE 4 " RED PLS HDL 1 KIT TWEEZER 3 1 / 2 " SLANTED 2 PR LRG NITRILE GLVES ZIP BAG 1 KIT STL 24 UN WHITE 01 Burn Jel Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Povidone Iodine Swab Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aypanal Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triple Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sting Relief Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BZK Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4364 Kit Label SF00003201 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
