Eyewash Active ingredient Sterile Water 99 % Eyewash Purpose Eyewash Eyewash Uses • for flushing the eye to remove loose foreign material , air pollutants or chlorinated water Eyewash Warnings For external use only Obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near eyes .
To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Once opened , discard .
Do not use • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , get medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Eyewash Directions • remove contacts before using • twist top to remove • flush the affected area as needed • control rate of flow by pressure on the bottle • if necessary , continue flushing with emergency eyewash or shower Eyewash Inactive ingredients sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Eyewash Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Burn Relief Water Soluble Active ingredients Benzethonium chloride 0 . 2 % w / w Benzocaine 10 % w / w Menthol 0 . 33 % w / w Burn Relief Water Soluble Purpose Topical antiseptic Topical anesthetic Topical anesthetic Burn Relief Water Soluble Uses for the temporary relief of pain and itching and helps protect against infection in : • minor cuts and scrapes • burns • sunburn • insect bites • minor skin irritations Burn Relief Water Soluble Warnings For external use only Flammable keep away from fire or flame • contents under pressure • do not puncture or incinerate container • do not expose to temperatures above 120 0 F Do not use • in or near the eyes or other mucous membranes • in case of serious burns • in case of deep or puncture wounds • for prolonged period of time • on large portion of the body Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or symptoms persist for more than 7 days • condition clears up and recurs within a few days • redness , swelling , or irritation occurs Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Burn Relief Water Soluble Directions • clean the affected area • shake can well before using • hold 4 - 6 inches from surface and spray area until wet • may be covered with a sterile bandage , if bandaged let dry first • for adult institutional use only • not intended for use on children Burn Relief Water Soluble Other information • avoid inhaling • use only as directed • intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating or inhaling the contents may be harmful or fatal Burn Relief Water Soluble Inactive ingredients dipropylene glycol , isobutane , n - butane , propane Triple Active ingredients Bacitracin zinc 400 units Neomycin sulfate ( 5 mg equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B sulfate 5000 units Triple Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Triple Uses • first aid to help prevent infection in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Triple Warnings For external use only Allergy alert do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • a deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Triple Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Triple Other information • store at 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) • tamper evident sealed packets • do not use if packet is torn or opened Triple Inactive ingredient petrolatum Alcohol Active ingredient Isopropyl alcohol 70 % Alcohol Purpose First aid antiseptic Alcohol Uses • first aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns Alcohol Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product • do not use longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and consult a doctor • if condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Alcohol Directions • clean the affected area • apply wipe to affected area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • discard wipe after single use Alcohol Other information store at room temperature 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) Alcohol Inactive ingredient water Hydrocortisone Active ingredient ( in each gram ) Hydrocortisone acetate ( equivalent to Hydrocortisone 1 % ) Hyrdocortisone Purpose Anti - itch cream Hydrocortisone Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes Hydrocortisone Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if • you are using any other hydrocortisone product When using the product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • do not use for the treatment of diaper rash Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • condition persists for more than 7 days • condition clears up and recurs within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Hydrocortisone Directions • adults and children 2 years and older : • clean the affected area • apply to the area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Hydrocortisone Other information • store at room temperature ( do not freeze ) Hydrocortisone Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , citric acid , diazolidinyl urea , edetate disodium , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , stearic acid , trolamine Hydrocortisone Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Foille Active ingredient Benzocaine 5 . 0 % ( w / w ) Chloroxylenol 0 . 1 % ( w / w ) Foille Purpose External analgesic Antiseptic Foille Uses • For the temporary relief of pain associated with burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes , insect bites , and minor skin irritations .
• First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns .
Foille Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , or symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
• Do not apply over large areas of the body .
In case of deep or puncture wounds , animal bites , or serious burns , consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Foille Directions • clean the affected area .
• adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : consult a physician .
Foille Other information Avoid contact with clothing Foille may stain certain fabrics Foille Inactive ingredients beeswax , benzyl alcohol , calcium disodium EDTA , calcium hydroxide , ceresin , eugenol , hydrogenated vegetable oil , maleic anhydride , mono - and di - glycerides , PEG - 32 , purified water , sodium borate , sodium lauryl sulfate , zea mays ( corn ) oil .
Burn Jel Active ingredient Lidocaine HCl 2 . 0 % v Burn Jel Purpose External analgesic Burn Jel Uses • temporarily relieves pain due to minor burns Burn Jel Warnings For external use oonly Do not use • on large areas of the body , particularly over raw surfaces or blistered areas When using this product • avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition gets worse • symptoms persist for more than 7 days • condition clears up and recurs within a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Burn Jel Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older ; apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • you may report a serious reaction to this product to 800 - 430 - 5490 Burn Jel Other information • store at room temperature - do not use if opened or torn Burn Jel Inactive ingredients carbopol 940 , carbopol 1342 , diazolidinyl urea , glycerin , melaleuca alternifolia ( tea tree ) leaf oil , methylparaben , octoxynol - 9 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , trolamine , water Burn Jel Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4357 6832649 KIT CONTENTS 1 BLUE DETEC FNGERTP 8 WVN 25 / B 1 BLUE DETEC KNUCKLE WVN 40 / BX 1 BLUE DETEC 1X3 WVN 100 / BX 1 INSTANT COLD PACK 4 " X 6 " 5 BURN JEL 1 / 8 OZ , 6 PER 1 ADHESIVE TAPE W / P 1 / 2 " X 5 YD 1 FIRST AID GUIDE ASHI 1 GAUZE CLEAN - WRAP BDGE N / S 2 " 1 GZE PADS STERILE 2 " X 2 " 25 ' S 1 GZE PADS STERILE 3 " X 3 " 25 ' S 1 CO - FLEX BANDAGE 2 " X 5 YDS TAN 1 ALCOHOL WIPES 50 ' S 1 TRIPLE BIOTIC . 5 GRAM PKT 20 1 HYDROCORTISONE 1 % . 9 GRM 20 ' S 1 4 OZ BFS EYEWASH TRILINGUAL BOTTLE 1 SCISSOR BDGE 4 " RED PLS HDL 1 SPLINTER OUT 10 PIECES / PK 1 KIT TWEEZER 3 1 / 2 " SLANTED 1 F A KIT EMPTY BLANK 140 1 LBL STOCK 6 - 3 / 8 " X4 " 1 LBL STOCK 4 " X2 - 7 / 8 " 1 LBL STOCK 3 " x1 - 7 / 8 " 2 PR LRG NITRILE GLVES ZIP BAG 5 WATER - JEL BURN DRESSING 4 X 4 3 FOILLE BURN . 5 OZ 2 ' S Eyewash Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Burn Relief Water Soluble Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triple Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Foille Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Burn Jel Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4357 Kit Label 6832649 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
