Eyewash Active ingredient Sterile Water 99 % Eyewash Purpose Eyewash Eyewash Uses • for flushing the eye to remove loose foreign material , air pollutants or chlorinated water Eyewash Warnings For external use only Obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near eyes .
To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Once opened , discard .
Do not use • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , get medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Eyewash Directions • remove contacts before using • twist top to remove • flush the affected area as needed • control rate of flow by pressure on the bottle • if necessary , continue flushing with emergency eyewash or shower Eyewash Inactive ingredients sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Eyewash Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Triple Active ingredients Bacitracin zinc 400 units Neomycin sulfate ( 5 mg equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Polymyxin B sulfate 5000 units Triple Purpose First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic First aid antibiotic Triple Uses • first aid to help prevent infection in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Triple Warnings For external use only Allergy alert do not use if you are allergic to any of the ingredients Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • a deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Triple Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Triple Other information • store at 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) • tamper evident sealed packets • do not use if packet is torn or opened Triple Inactive ingredient petrolatum Alcohol Active ingredient Isopropyl alcohol 70 % Alcohol Purpose First aid antiseptic Alcohol Uses • first aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns Alcohol Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have deep or puncture wounds animal bites serious burns When using this product • do not use longer than one week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and consult a doctor • if condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Alcohol Directions • clean the affected area • apply wipe to affected area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • discard wipe after single use Alcohol Other information store at room temperature 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) Alcohol Inactive ingredient water Aypanal Active ingredient Acetaminophen 500 mg Aypanal Purpose Pain reliever / fever reducer Aypanal Uses • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains due to the common cold and headache • temporarily reduces fever Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver disease Aypanal Warnings Liver Warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take : • more than 4 , 000 mg in 24 hours , which is the maximum daily amount .
• with other drugs containing acetaminophen • adult has 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Allergy alert : Acetaminophen may cause severe skin reactions .
Symptoms may include : • skin reddening • blisters • rash If skin reaction occurs , stop use and seek medical help right away Do not use • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or nonprescription ) .
• If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if • you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin Stop use and ask a doctor if • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • new symptoms occur • redness or swelling is present If pregnant or breastfeeding • ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
Overdose warning : In case ofl overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Prompt medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Aypanal Directions • do not take more than directed ( see overdose warning ) • adults and children 12 years of age and over : Take 2 tablets with water every 6 hours while symptoms last .
• do not take any more than 8 tablets in 24 hours .
• children under 12 : consult a doctor Aypanal Other information • store at room temperature 15 0 - 30 0 C ( 59 0 - 86 0 F ) • TAMPER EVIDENT - DO NOT USE IF OPEN OR TORN Aypanal Inactive igredients microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium starch glycolate , starch , stearic acid Aypanal Questions or Comments 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4287 SF00003256 KIT CONTENTS 1 1X3 PLASTIC 100 / BOX 1 FINGERTIP " T " WOVEN 40 / BOX 1 SWIFT KNUCKLE 40 / BX 1 ADHESIVE TAPE W / P 1 / 2 " X 5 YD 1 GZE PADS STERILE 2 " X 2 " 25 ' S 1 ALCOHOL WIPES 50 ' S 1 AYPANAL NON - ASP IND 2 / ENV 100 1 TRIPLE BIOTIC . 5 GRAM PKT 20 1 4 OZ BFS EYEWASH TRILINGUAL BOTTLE 1 F A KIT EMPTY BLANK 140 1 POCKET INSERT RED # 140 KIT 2 R 1 LBL STOCK 6 - 3 / 8 " X4 " 1 LBL STOCK 4 " X2 - 7 / 8 " 1 COLD PACK 5 " X 9 " BULK Eyewash Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Triple Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Aypanal Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4287 Kit Label SF000003256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
