Eyewash Active ingredient Sterile Water 99 % Eyewassh Purpose Eyewash Eyewash Uses • for flushing the eye to remove loose foreign material , air pollutants or chlorinated water Eyewash Warnings For external use only • Obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near eyes .
• To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
• Do not reuse .
• Once opened , discard .
Do not use • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , get medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Eyeash Directions • remove contacts before using • twist top to remove • flush the affected area as needed • control rate of flow by pressure on the bottle • if necessary , continue flushing with emergency eyewash or shower Eyewash Inactive ingredients sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Eyeash Questions Call 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Honeywell Safety Products USA , Inc .
Smithfield , RI 02917 Isotonic Solution for Irrigation .
For Irrigation Only .
Not for Injection .
Description NaCL Irrigation Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 9 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH adjusted with Hydrochloric Acid NF pH : 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 – 7 . 0 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 310 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 154 ; Chloride 154 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is sterile , nonpyrogenic , isotonic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
The formula of the active ingredient is : Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and , therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The PIC ™ Container is PVC - free and DEHP - free .
Ingredient Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and , therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The PIC ™ Container is PVC - free and DEHP - free .
Clinical Pharmacology NaCL Irrigant 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is utilized for a variety of clinical indications such as sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters , surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a diluent or vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP provides an isotonic saline irrigation identical in composition with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection USP ( normal saline ) .
Physiological irrigation solutions are considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Indication and Usage NaCl Irrigant 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is indicated for all general irrigation , washing , rinsing and dilution purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
Contraindications NaCl Irrigant 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is not for injection by usual parenteral routes .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
Warnings NaCl Irrigant FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus , irrigation solutions must be regarded as systemic drugs .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of the administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
After opening container , its contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservatives .
Precautions NaCl Irrigant General Use aseptic technique when preparing and administering sterile irrigation solutions .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption of large amounts of fluid into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to " dwell " inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
When used for irrigation via appropriate irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance after prolonged irrigation , when fluid absorption is suspected , or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Drug Interactions Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist . When introducing additives , use aseptic technique . Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP .
It is also not known whether 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery Safety and effectiveness of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP during labor and delivery have not been established .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP in pediatric patients have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP did not include a sufficient number of patients age 65 years and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function . Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function . Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluations are recommended to monitor changes in blood glucose , electrolyte concentrations , and renal function .
Adverse Reactions Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes can be minimized when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue administration of the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
Overdosage In the event of overhydration or solute overload , reevaluate the patient ' s condition , and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
Intravasular volume overload may respond to hemodialysis .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Dosage and Administration As required for irrigation .
When used as a diluent , or vehicle for other drugs , the drug manufacturer ' s recommendations should be followed .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permits .
How Supplied 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Container ) .
The 1000 mL and 500 mL containers are packaged 16 per case , the 2000 mL containers are packaged 8 per case , and the 4000 mL containers are packaged 4 per case .
0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Irrigation USP NDC Cat .
No .
REF SIZE 0264 - 2201 - 00 R5200 - 01 1000 mL 0264 - 2201 - 10 R5201 - 01 500 mL 0264 - 2201 - 50 R5205 - 01 2000 mL 0264 - 2201 - 70 R5207 , , , , 4000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
SPL Unclassified Section Rx only Revised : March 2009 PIC is a trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE OF PIC ™ ( PLASTIC IRRIGATION CONTAINER ) Not for injection .
Aseptic technique is required .
Caution – Before use , perform the following checks : ( a ) Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
( b ) Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact Single unit container .
Discard unused portion .
Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt .
Then , twisting the container in the opposite direction , turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 Connect the administration set through the sterile set port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour .
[ Fig 2 ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) to assure minimal bottle distortion .
Keep bottles upright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SPL Unclassified Section B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA Y36 - 002 - 699 Alcohol Wipe Active ingredient Isopropyl alcohol 70 % Alcohol Wipe Purpose First aid antiseptic Alcohol Wipe Uses first aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns Alcohol Wipe Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from fire and flame Do not use • in or near eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns When using this product • do not use longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and consult a doctor if • condition persists or gets worse Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control center right away Alcohol Wipe Directions • clean the affected area • may be covered with a sterile bandage • apply wipe to affeted are 1 to 3 times daily • discard wipe after single use Alcohol Wipe Other information • store at room temperature 15 o to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 oF ) • do not use if packet is torn or opened Alcohol Wipe Inactive ingredients water Alcohol Wipe Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 PVP Wipes Active ingredients Povidone - iodine 10 % ( equivalent to 1 % titratable iodine ) PVP Wipes Purpose First aid antiseptic PVP Wipes Uses • first aid antiseptic to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes and burns PVP Wipes Warnings For external use only .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens or persists for more than 72 hours • irritation and redness develops Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
PVP Wipes Directions • clean the affected area • apply1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage • if bandaged , let dry first • discard wipe after single use PVP Wipes Other Information • do not use on individuals who are allergic or sensitive to iodine • store at controlled temperature 59 - 86ºF ( 15 - 30ºC ) • do not use if pouch is open or torn PVP Wipes Inactive ingredients nonoxynol 9 , water PVP Wipes Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 PAWS Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 66 . 5 % PAWS Purpose Antiseptic PAWS Uses • for handwashing to decrease bacteria on skin whenever soap and water is not readily available PAWS Warnings For external use only Flammable : keep away from fire or flame Do not use in the eyes .
If this happens , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation or redness develop and persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away PAWS Directions • wet hands and wrists thoroughly for 15 seconds and allow to air dry • always reseal after use • children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product PAWS Inactive ingredients aloe vera , fragrance , purified water , triethanolamine PAWS Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4385 346100 Kit Contents 1 ALCOHOL PREP PADS 10 P 1 PVP IODINE WIPES 10 PER 1 NITRILE GLOVES 2 PR BBP 1 O / H TAPE ADHESIVE TRI - CUT 1 BK GZ 4 . 5 " X4 . 1YD6PLY RL ST MSO 1 FIRST AID GUIDE ASHI 1 EMERGENCY SURVIVAL BLANKET 2 GAUZE CLEAN - WRAP BDGE N / S 2 " 1 BLOODSTOPPER 2 ABD COMBINE PAD 5 " X 9 " 2 ABD PADS 8 " X10 " STERILE 1 SOD .
CHLORIDE 0 . 9 % 500 ML EA 1 4 OZ BFS EYEWASH TRILINGUAL BOTTLE 1 EMPTY BAG RED 8X8X6 1 LBL STOCK 6 - 3 / 8 " X4 " 1 LBL STOCK 4 " X2 - 7 / 8 " 1 LBL STOCK 3 " x1 - 7 / 8 " 1 POLY BAG , 19 X 24 ( CLEAR ) 1 BANDAGE PACK FOR KIT 1 ZIP LOCK BAG FOR KIT # 3 1 SELF - ADH WRAP 3 X 5 YDS NORTH REV E 1 WATER - JEL BURN DRESSING 4 X 4 1 CORRUGATED 24 PK 01 - 0810 RSC 1 TRI BNDG NON WOVEN 40 " X40 " X56 " 1 COLD PACK UNIT 4 " X6 " BULK 1 CPR MSK , PAWS WPS , GLVS 1 Eyewash Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel 500 ml Container [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol Wipe Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PVP Wipes Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PAWS Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4385 Kit Label 346100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
