Eyewash Active ingredient Sterile Water 99 % Eyewash Purpose Eyewash Eyewash Uses • for flushing the eye to remove loose foreign material , air pollutants or chlorinated water Eyewash Warnings For external use only Obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near eyes .
To avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface .
Do not reuse .
Once opened , discard .
Do not use • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , get medical help right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness or irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Eyewash Directions • remove contacts before using • twist top to remove • flush the affected area as needed • control rate of flow by pressure on the bottle • if necessary , continue flushing with emergency eyewash or shower Eyewash Inactive ingredients sodium chloride , sodium phosphate dibasic , sodium phosphate monobasic Eyewash Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Sting Relief Active ingredient ( in each wipe ) Ethyl alcohol 50 . 0 % Lidocaine HCl 2 . 0 % Sting Relief Purpose Antiseptic - Topical pain relief Sting Relief Uses • prevent infection in minor scrapes , and temporary relief of itching of insect bites Sting Relief Warnings For external use only Flammable , keep away from open fire or flame Do not use • over large areas of the body • in eyes • over raw or blistered areas Stop use and ask a doctor • if conditions worsen or persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Sting Relief Directions • adults and children 2 years and older : Apply to cleaned affected area not more than 3 times daily .
• children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
Sting Relief Inactive ingredients benzalkonium chloride , menthol , and purified water Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Hydrocortisone Cream Active ingredient ( in each gram ) Hydrocortisone acetate ( equivalent to Hydrocortisone 1 % ) Hydrocortisone Purpose Anti - itch cream Hydrocortisone Uses • for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes Hysrocortisone Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if • you are using any other hydrocortisone product When using the product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor • do not use for the treatment of diaper rash Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • condition persists for more than 7 days • condition clears up and recurs within a few days Keep out of reach of children • If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Hydrocortisone Directions • adults and children 2 years and older : • clean the affected area • apply to the area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor Hydrocortisone Other information • store at room temperature ( do not freeze ) Hydrocortisone Inactive ingredients cetyl alcohol , citric acid , diazolidinyl urea , edetate disodium , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , polyethylene glycol , propylene glycol , propylparaben ..
Hydrocortisone Questions or Comments ?
1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 Neomycin Active ingredient Neomycin sulfate ( 5 mg equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin base ) Neomycin Purpose First aid antibiotic Neomycin Uses first aid to help prevent infection in • minor cuts • scrapes • burns Neomycin Warnings For external ; use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops • you need to use longer than 1 week Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Neomycin Directions • clean the affected area • apply a small amount of the product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily • may be covered with a sterile bandage Neomycin Other information store at 15 0 to 25 0 C ( 59 0 to 77 0 F ) Neomycin Inactive ingredient petrolatum Neomycin Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 BZK Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % w / v BZK Purpose First aid antiseptic BZK Uses Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands , and body without soap and water BZK Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes or over large areas of the body • on mucous membranes • on irritated skin • in case of deep puncture wounds , animal bites or serious burns , consult a doctor • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if if irritation , redness or other symptoms develop the condition persists or gets worse Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
BZ Directions • tear open packet and use as a washcloth BZK Other information • store at room temperature 15 0 to 30 0 C ( 59 0 - 86 0 F ) • do not reuse towelette BZK Inactive ingredient water BZK Questions 1 - 800 - 430 - 5490 4298 011011 - 4165 N Kit Contents 1 FNGRTIP - 5 PER , KNCKL BDG - 4 PER 1 NEOMYCIN ANTIBIOTIC 10 PER 3 TRIANGULAR BDG , NON - STERILE 1 BANDAGE COMP , 3 " OFFSET , 2 PER 2 ADHESIVE BDG , PLSTIC , 1 " X3 " 16 PER 1 ADH BAND , EXTRA LARGE , 6 PER 1 1 OZ EYE WASH W / PADS & STRIPS 1 HYDROCORTISON , 1 .
O % , 1 / 32 OZ , 10 P 1 BIOHAZARD BAG / SCRAPER BBP 1 ANTIMCRBL ANTSPTC TWLETTS 6 PER 4 NITRILE GLOVES BBP 1 CPR MICROSHIELD W / 2 PR LTX GLV 1 BBP PROTECT APPAREL KIT LBL STOCK 6 - 3 / 8 " X4 " 1 LBL STOCK 3 " x1 - 7 / 8 " 1 KIT STL 24 UN WHITE 01 1 LABL FILL 24 UN SOUTH CO ID F 1 STING RELIEF 10 Eyewash Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sting Relief Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Neomycin Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] BZK Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 4298 Kit Label 011011 - 4165 N [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
