Description : Self - topical neutral fluoride gel containing 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride for use as a dental caries preventive in adults and pediatric patients .
Active Ingredient : Sodium Fluoride , 1 . 1 % ( w / w ) Other Ingredients : Glycerin , Hydrated Silica , Hydrogenated Starch Hydrolysate ( HSH ) , Hydroxyapatite , Hydroxyethyl Cellulose , Natural Flavors ( Mint only ) , Natural and Artificial Flavors ( Citrus only ) , Polysorbate 20 , Potassium Sorbate , Saccharin , Sodium Benzoate , Sodium Bicarbonate , Sodium Hydroxide , Sodium Lauryl Sulfate , Water , Xylitol Clinical Pharmacology : Frequent topical applications to the teeth with preparations having a relatively high fluoride content increase tooth resistance to acid dissolution and enhance penetration of the fluoride ion into the tooth structure .
Indications and Use : A dental caries preventive ; for once daily self - applied topical use .
It is well established that a 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride is safe and extraordinarily effective as a caries preventive when applied frequently with mouthpiece applicators . 1 - 4 CariFree CTx4 Gel 5000 brand of 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride toothpaste in a squeeze tube is easily applied onto a toothbrush as well as a mouthpiece tray .
This prescription dental gel should be used once daily following use of a regular toothpaste unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional .
May be used in areas where drinking water is fluoridated since topical fluoride cannot produce fluorosis .
( See Warnings for exception ) Contraindications : Do not use in pediatric patients under age 6 years unless recommended by a dentist or physician .
Warnings : Prolonged daily ingestion may result in various degrees of dental fluorosis in pediatric patients under age 6 years , especially if water fluoridation exceeds 0 . 6 ppm .
Use in pediatric patients under age 6 years requires special supervision to prevent repeated swallowing of gel .
Read directions carefully before using .
Keep out of reach of infants and children .
Precautions : General : Not for systemic treatments .
DO NOT SWALLOW .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : In a study conducted in rodents , no carcinogenesis was found in male and female mice and female rats treated with fluoride at dose levels ranging from 4 . 1 to 9 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
Equivocal evidence of carcinogenesis was reported in male rats treated with 2 . 5 and 4 . 1 mg / kg of body weight .
In a second study , no carcinogenesis was observed in rats , males or females , treated with fluoride up to 11 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
Epidemiological data provided no credible evidence for an association between fluoride , either naturally occurring or added to drinking water , and risk of human cancer .
Fluoride is not mutagenic in standard bacterial systems .
It has been shows that fluoride ion has potential to induce chromosome aberrations in cultured human and rodent cells at doses much higher than those to which humans are exposed .
In vivo data are conflicting .
Some studies report chromosome damage in rodents , while other studies using similar protocols report negative results .
Potential adverse reproductive effects of fluoride exposure in humans has not been adequately evaluated .
Adverse effects on reproduction were reported for rats , mice , fox , and cattle exposed to 100 ppm or greater concentrations of fluoride in their diet or drinking water .
Other studies conducted in rats demonstrated that lower concentrations of fluoride ( 5 mg / kg of body weight ) did not result in impaired fertility and reproductive capabilities .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Category B .
It has been shown that fluoride crosses the placenta of rats , but only 0 . 01 % of the amount administered is incorporated in fetal tissue .
Animal studies ( rats , mice , rabbits ) have shown that fluoride is not teratogen .
Maternal exposure to 12 . 2 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( rats ) or 13 . 1 mg / kg of body weight ( rabbits ) did not affect the litter size or fetal weight and did not increase the frequency of skeletal or visceral malformations .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
However , epidemiological studies conducted in areas with high levels of naturally fluoridated water showed no increase in birth defects .
Heavy exposure to fluoride during in utero development may result in skeletal fluorosis , which becomes evident in childhood .
Nursing Mothers : It is not known if fluoride is excreted in human milk .
However , many drugs are excreted in milk , and caution should be exercised when products containing fluoride are administered to a nursing woman .
Reduce milk production was reported in farm - raised fox when the animals were fed a diet containing a high concentration of fluoride ( 98 - 137 mg / kg of body weight ) .
No adverse effects on parturition , lactation , or offspring were seen in rats administered fluoride up to 5 mg / kg of body weight .
Pediatric Use : The use of CariFree CTx4 Gel 5000 in pediatric age group 6 to 16 years as a caries preventive is supported by pioneering clinical studies with 1 . 1 % sodium fluoride gels in mouth trays in students age 11 to 14 years conducted by Englander et al . 2 - 4 Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 years have not been established .
Please refer to Contraindications and Warnings sections .
Adverse Reactions : Allergic reactions and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported .
Overdosage : Accidental ingestion of large amounts of fluoride may result in acute burning in the mouth and sore tongue .
Nauseau , vomiting , and diarrhea may occur soon after ingestion ( within 30 minutes ) and are accompanied by salivation , hematemesis , and epigastric cramping abdominal pain .
These symptoms may persist for 24 hours .
If less than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( ie , less than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , give calcium ( eg , milk ) orally to relieve gastrointestinal symptoms and observe for a few hours .
If more than 5 mg fluoride / kg body weight ( ie , more than 2 . 3 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) have been ingested , induce vomiting , give orally soluble calcium ( eg , milk , 5 % calcium gluconate or calcium lactate solution ) and immediately seek medical assistance .
For accidental ingestion of more than 15 mg fluoride / kg of body weight ( ie , more than 6 . 9 mg fluoride / lb body weight ) , induce vomiting and admit immediately to a hospital facility .
A treatment dose ( a thin ribbon ) of CariFree CTx4 Gel 5000 contains 2 . 5 mg fluoride .
A 2 oz tube contains 284 mg fluoride .
Dosage and Administration : Follow these instructions unless otherwise instructed by your dental professional : 1 .
After brushing with toothpaste , adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older , apply a thin ribbon of gel to the teeth with a toothbrush for at least one minute , preferably at bedtime .
2 .
Adult patients , expectorate gel after use .
For best results , do not eat , drink or rinse for 30 minutes .
Pediatric patients , age 6 - 16 , expectorate gel after use and rinse mouth thoroughly .
How Supplied : 2 oz ( 56 . 699 g ) tube .
NDC # 61578 - 205 - 01 ( Mint ) NDC # 61578 - 206 - 01 ( Citrus ) Storage : Store at controlled room temperature , 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) References : 1 .
American Dental Association , Accepted Dental Therapeutics , Ed 40 , Chicago ( 1984 ) : 405 - 407 .
2 .
HR Englander et al , “ Clinical Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , ” JADA , 75 ( 1967 ) : 638 - 644 .
3 .
HR Englander et al , “ Residual Anticaries Effect of Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications by Mouthpieces , ” JADA , 78 ( 1969 ) : 783 - 787 .
4 .
HR Englader et al , “ Incremental Rates of Dental Caries After Repeated Topical Sodium Fluoride Applications in Children with Lifelong Consumption of Fluoridated Water , ” JADA , 82 ( 1971 ) : 354 - 358 .
PRO Gel 5000 Mint and Citrus enclosure and carton labels : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
