0642 - 0076 - 30 Prenatal Supplement with DHA Rx COMPOSITION Each Vitafol ® - OB caplet contains : Vitamin A ( as beta carotene ) 810 mcg RAE Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 70 mg Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 10 mcg Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 13 . 5 mg Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 as thiamine mononitrate ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 18 mg NE Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate ( as folic acid ) 1700 mcg DFE Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Calcium ( as calcium carbonate ) 100 mg Iron ( as ferrous fumarate ) 65 mg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 25 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 25 mg Copper ( as copper oxide ) 2 mg Each DHA softgel capsule contains : Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ( from natural algal oil ) 250 mg Other ingredients : gelatin ( bovine ) , gylcerin , microcrystalline cellulose , croscarmellose sodium , silicon dioxide , maltodextrin , copovidone , stearic acid , water , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , dicalcium phosphate , acacia gum , titanium dioxide , polydextrose , starch , magnesium stearate , triacetin , modified food starch , mannitol , vitamin E alcohol , polyethylene glycol , talc , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Blue # 2 .
Contains : Soy .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Vitafol ® - OB + DHA is indicated to provide vitamin , mineral and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
* Vitafol ® - OB + DHA does not contain fish , fish oils , fish proteins or fish byproducts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® - OB + DHA is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B - 12 ) .
Warning Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathryroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids , such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® - OB + DHA .
Allergic reactions have been reported with some forms of gum acacia to include respiratory problems and skin lesions .
Contact your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , one caplet and one soft - gel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® - OB + DHA is available as a light blue caplet debossed EV0079 and one amber - colored DHA softgel capsule .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 caplets and 6 softgel capsules each ) ( 0642 - 0076 - 30 ) and as professional samples ( 0642 - 0076 - 03 ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat and moisture .
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease .
Rx Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2021 Exeltis USA , Inc .
U . S . Patent No . 6 , 814 , 983 ; 7 , 390 , 509 Vitafol ® is a trademark of Exeltis USA , Inc .
Rev . May 2021 0763001 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton 0642 - 0076 - 30 Vitafol ® - OB + DHA Prenatal Supplement with DHA SUGAR , LACTOSE , GLUTEN AND IODINE FREE New Smaller DHA Softgel DOES NOT CONTAIN FISH OIL R X Unit Dose Pack 30 Caplets and 30 Softgel Capsules U . S . Patented [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
