Description KEMSTRO ™ ( baclofen orally disintegrating tablets ) is a muscle relaxant and antispastic .
Baclofen USP is a white to off - white , odorless or practically odorless crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water , very slightly soluble in methanol , and insoluble in chloroform .
Its chemical name is 4 - amino - 3 - ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - butanoic acid .
The molecular weight of baclofen is 213 . 66 and the empirical formula is C10H12CINO2 .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] KEMSTRO ™ is available as 10 mg and 20 mg orally disintegrating tablets .
Each orally disintegrating tablet also contains as inactive ingredients : aspartame , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , natural and artificial orange flavor and povidone .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology The precise mechanism of action of baclofen is not fully known .
Baclofen is capable of inhibiting both monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes at the spinal level , possibly by hyperpolarization of afferent terminals , although actions at supraspinal sites may also occur and contribute to its clinical effect .
Although baclofen is an analog of the putative inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma - amino - butyric acid ( GABA ) , there is no conclusive evidence that actions on GABA systems are involved in the production of its clinical effects .
In studies with animals , baclofen has been shown to have general CNS depressant properties as indicated by the production of sedation with tolerance , somnolence , ataxia , and respiratory and cardiovascular depression .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Baclofen is rapidly and extensively absorbed .
Absorption may be dose - dependent , being reduced with increasing doses .
KEMSTRO ™ given with or without water is bioequivalent to the baclofen conventional tablet .
Thus KEMSTRO ™ can be placed on the tongue until it disintegrates and then be swallowed with or without water .
Following a single 20 mg oral dose of KEMSTRO ™ , the peak plasma concentration was reached about 1 ½ hours after administration .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution is 59 liters .
Baclofen does not readily cross the blood - brain barrier .
Plasma protein binding is approximately 30 % .
Metabolism In a study using radiolabeled baclofen , approximately 85 % of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine and feces .
About 15 % of the dose was metabolized , primarily by deamination .
The γ - hydroxy metabolite , 3 - ( p - chlorophenyl ) - 4 - hydroxybutyric acid , is formed after deamination of baclofen .
Excretion Baclofen is rapidly and extensively eliminated .
There is a relatively large intersubject variation in elimination .
Baclofen is excreted primarily by the kidney as unchanged drug ; 70 - 80 % of a dose appears in the urine as unchanged drug .
The remainder is excreted as unchanged drug in the feces or as metabolites in the urine and feces .
Excretion is complete within 72 hours after administration .
The elimination half - life of KEMSTRO ™ is approximately 5 ½ hours .
Total systemic clearance is 180 mL / min and renal clearance is 103 mL / min .
Special Populations Elderly The pharmacokinetics of baclofen tablets were evaluated in elderly patients ( 69 - 81 years ) and in healthy younger subjects ( 23 - 53 years ) after a single 10 mg dose .
The Cmax was lower ( 119 ng / mL vs . 178 ng / mL ) and the Tmax was longer ( 3 hours vs . 1 hour ) in the elderly patients compared to the younger subjects .
The AUCs were similar in the two groups .
In this study , the elimination half - life was slightly prolonged in the elderly patients compared to the younger subjects , 4 . 43 hours vs . 3 . 75 hours , respectively .
Indications and Usage KEMSTRO ™ is useful for the alleviation of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis , particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and concomitant pain , clonus , and muscular rigidity .
Patients should have reversible spasticity so that treatment with KEMSTRO ™ will aid in restoring residual function .
KEMSTRO ™ may also be of some value in patients with spinal cord injuries and other spinal cord diseases .
KEMSTRO ™ is not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm resulting from rheumatic disorders .
The efficacy of KEMSTRO ™ in stroke , cerebral palsy , and Parkinson ' s disease has not been established and , therefore , it is not recommended for these conditions .
Contraindications KEMSTRO ™ is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product .
Warning Abrupt Drug Withdrawal Hallucinations and seizures have occurred on abrupt withdrawal of baclofen .
Therefore , except for serious adverse reactions , the dose should be reduced slowly when the drug is discontinued .
Impaired Renal Function Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged by the kidneys , it should be given with caution and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage in patients with impaired renal function .
Stroke Baclofen has not significantly benefited patients with stroke .
These patients have also shown poor tolerability to the drug .
Precautions General Baclofen should be used with caution where spasticity is utilized to sustain upright posture and balance in locomotion or whenever spasticity is utilized to obtain increased function .
In patients with epilepsy , the clinical state and electroencephalogram should be monitored at regular intervals , since deterioration in seizure control and EEG have been reported occasionally in patients taking baclofen .
Information for patients Because of the possibility of sedation , patients should be cautioned regarding the operation of automobiles or other dangerous machinery , and activities made hazardous by decreased alertness .
Patients should also be cautioned that the central nervous system depressant effects of baclofen may be additive to those of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Phenylketonurics Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that KEMSTRO ™ contains phenylalanine 3 . 9 mg per 10 mg orally disintegrating tablet and 7 . 9 mg per 20 mg orally disintegrating tablet .
Interactions Drug interactions The central nervous system depressant effects of baclofen may be additive to those of alcohol and other CNS depressants .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility A dose - related increase in incidence of ovarian cysts and a less marked increase in enlarged and / or hemorrhagic adrenal glands was observed in female rats treated chronically with baclofen .
Ovarian cysts have been found by palpation in about 4 % of the multiple sclerosis patients that were treated with baclofen for up to one year .
In most cases these cysts disappeared spontaneously while patients continued to receive the drug .
Ovarian cysts are estimated to occur spontaneously in approximately 1 % to 5 % of the normal female population .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Baclofen has been shown to increase the incidence of omphaloceles ( ventral hernias ) in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum dose recommended for human use , at a dose which caused significant reductions in food intake and weight gain in dams .
This abnormality was not seen in mice or rabbits .
There was also an increased incidence of incomplete sternebral ossification in fetuses of rats given approximately 13 times the maximum recommended human dose , and an increased incidence of unossified phalangeal nuclei of forelimbs and hindlimbs in fetuses of rabbits given approximately 7 times the maximum recommended human dose .
In mice , no teratogenic effects were observed , although reductions in mean fetal weight with consequent delays in skeletal ossification were present when dams were given 17 or 34 times the human daily dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
KEMSTRO ™ should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when KEMSTRO ™ is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric use Clinical studies of baclofen did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of KEMSTRO ™ and observed closely .
Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reaction during treatment with baclofen is transient drowsiness ( 10 - 63 % ) .
In one controlled study of 175 patients , transient drowsiness was observed in 63 % of those receiving baclofen tablets compared to 36 % of those in the placebo group .
Other common adverse reactions are dizziness ( 5 - 15 % ) , weakness ( 5 - 15 % ) and fatigue ( 2 - 4 % ) .
Others reported : Neuropsychiatric : Confusion ( 1 - 11 % ) , headache ( 4 - 8 % ) , insomnia ( 2 - 7 % ) ; and , rarely , euphoria , excitement , depression , hallucinations , paresthesia , muscle pain , tinnitus , slurred speech , coordination disorder , tremor , rigidity , dystonia , ataxia , blurred vision , nystagmus , strabismus , miosis , mydriasis , diplopia , dysarthria , epileptic seizure .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension ( 0 - 9 % ) .
Rare instances of dyspnea , palpitation , chest pain , syncope .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea ( 4 - 12 % ) , constipation ( 2 - 6 % ) ; and , rarely , dry mouth , anorexia , taste disorder , abdominal pain , vomiting , diarrhea , and positive test for occult blood in stool .
Genitourinary : Urinary frequency ( 2 - 6 % ) ; and , rarely , enuresis , urinary retention , dysuria , impotence , inability to ejaculate , nocturia , hematuria .
Other : Instances of rash , pruritus , ankle edema , excessive perspiration , weight gain , nasal congestion .
Some of the CNS and genitourinary symptoms may be related to the underlying disease rather than to drug therapy .
The following laboratory tests have been found to be abnormal in a few patients receiving baclofen : increased SGOT , elevated alkaline phosphatase , and elevation of blood sugar .
The adverse experience profile seen with KEMSTRO ™ was similar to that seen with baclofen tablets .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Overdosage Signs and Symptoms Vomiting , muscular hypotonia , drowsiness , accommodation disorders , coma , respiratory depression , and seizures .
Treatment In the alert patient , empty the stomach promptly by induced emesis followed by lavage .
In the obtunded patient , secure the airway with a cuffed endotracheal tube before beginning lavage ( do not induce emesis ) .
Maintain adequate respiratory exchange , do not use respiratory stimulants .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentration of baclofen .
Dosage and Administration The determination of optimal dosage requires individual titration .
Start therapy at a low dosage and increase gradually until optimum effect is achieved ( usually between 40 - 80 mg daily ) .
The following dosage titration schedule is suggested : 5 mg three times a day for 3 days 10 mg three times a day for 3 days 15 mg three times a day for 3 days 20 mg three times a day for 3 days Thereafter additional increases may be necessary but the total daily dose should not exceed a maximum of 80 mg daily ( 20 mg four times a day ) .
The lowest dose compatible with an optimal response is recommended .
If benefits are not evident after a reasonable trial period , patients should be slowly withdrawn from the drug ( see WARNINGS , Abrupt Drug Withdrawal ) .
Administration Using dry hands , the patient should be instructed to place the tablet on the tongue , where it will disintegrate and can then be swallowed with or without water .
Patients with Renal Impairment Because baclofen is primarily excreted unchanged by the kidneys , it should be given with caution and it may be necessary to reduce the dosage in patients with impaired renal function .
How Supplied KEMSTRO ™ ( baclofen orally disintegrating tablets ) 10 mg are white , round , orange - flavored , scored and engraved “ 10 ” on the unscored side and “ SP ” above and “ 351 ” below the score on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 0091 - 3351 - 01 KEMSTRO ™ ( baclofen orally disintegrating tablets ) 20 mg are white , round , orange - flavored , scored and engraved “ 20 ” on the unscored side and “ SP ” above and “ 352 ” below the score on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 NDC 0091 - 3352 - 01 Dispense in a tight container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Store at controlled room temperature 20º - 25º ( 68º - 77º ) ; excursions permitted between 15º - 30º ( 59º - 86º ) .
Protect from moisture .
Manufactured for : Schwarz Pharma Milwaukee , WI 53201 , USA By : CIMA LABS INC . ® Eden Prairie , MN 55344 , USA KEMSTRO ™ uses CIMA U . S . Patent Nos . 6 , 024 , 981 and 6 , 221 , 392 .
PC4536A Rev . 01 / 04
