Drug Facts Active ingredient Adapalene 0 . 1 % ( retinoid ) [ 1 ] [ 1 ] read consumer information leaflet Purpose Acne treatment Use • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged skin ( cuts , abrasions , eczema , sunburn ) • if you are allergic to adapalene or any of the ingredients in this product .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a doctor before use .
When using this product • limit sun exposure , including light from tanning beds , and use sunscreen when going outdoors • do not wax to remove hair in areas where the product has been applied • during the early weeks of use , your acne may appear to worsen before it improves ( this is normal ) ; continue using as directed , unless you get irritation that becomes severe • irritation ( redness , itching , dryness , burning ) is more likely to occur : • in the first few weeks of use • if using more than one topical acne medication at a time • but irritation usually lessens with continued use of this product • it may take up to 3 months of once daily use to see results • avoid product contact with eyes , lips , and mouth .
If contact occurs , immediately flush the area with water .
• wash hands after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • you become pregnant , or are planning to become pregnant , while using the product • you have symptoms of an allergic reaction ( such as itching , rash , hives , swelling of the lips , eyelids , and shortness of breath ) • irritation becomes severe • you see no improvement after 3 months of once daily use Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and older : • use once daily • clean the skin gently and pat dry before applying the product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer .
For example , if your acne is on the face , apply the product to the entire face .
• do not use more than one time a day .
Applying more than directed will not provide faster or better results , but may worsen skin irritation .
Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • store at room temperature 68 ° - 77 ° F • protect from freezing Inactive ingredients carbomer 940 , edetate disodium , methylparaben , poloxamer 182 , propylene glycol , purified water and sodium hydroxide .
May contain hydrochloric acid to adjust pH . Questions ?
1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 Distributed by The Proactiv Company LLC 100 N Sepulveda Blvd . , El Segundo , CA 90245 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 g Tube Box proactiv MD ® ADAPALENE GEL 0 . 1 % ACNE TREATMENT First FDA - Approved Over - the - Counter Topical Retinoid * for Acne Treatment Previously Available Only By Prescription Dermatologist Developed and Tested * Read carton and enclosed consumer information leaflet before using this product .
Keep this carton and consumer information leaflet .
They contain important information .
NET WT 0 . 5 OZ ( 15 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
