[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride is an alpha adrenergic antagonist , indicated for the treatment of signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia .
( 1 ) Important Limitations of Use : Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated for treatment of hypertension .
( 1 . 1 ) Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated for use in the pediatric population .
( 1 . 1 , 8 . 4 , 12 . 3 ) 1 . 1 Important Limitations of Use Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tabletsare not indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated for use in the pediatric population .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one 10 mg alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet once daily .
The extent of absorption of alfuzosin is 50 % lower under fasting conditions .
Therefore , alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken with food and with the same meal each day .
The tablets should not be chewed or crushed .
10 mg once daily with food and with the same meal each day .
( 2 ) Tablets should not be chewed or crushed ( 2 , 12 . 3 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 10 mg are available as white to off - white , round shaped , biconvex , uncoated tablet debossed with ‘ 956 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
Extended - release tablet : 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tabletsare contraindicated for use : • in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( Childs - Pugh categories B and C ) , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased in these patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , and ritonavir , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• in patients with known hypersensitivity , such as urticaria and angioedema , to alfuzosin hydrochloride or any component of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• Moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( 4 , 8 . 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Coadministration with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) ( 4 , 5 . 4 , 7 . 1 , 12 . 3 ) • Known hypersensitivity ( e . g . , urticaria or angioedema ) to alfuzosin or any of the ingredients ( 4 , 6 . 2 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Postural hypotension / syncope : Care should be taken in patients with symptomatic hypotension or who have had a hypotensive response to other medications or are concomitantly treated with antihypertensive medication or nitrates ( 5 . 1 ) • Use with caution in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) ( 5 . 2 , 8 . 6 , 12 . 3 ) • Use with caution in patients with mild hepatic impairment ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 7 , 12 . 3 ) • Should not be used in combination with other alpha adrenergic antagonists ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 2 ) • Prostate carcinoma should be ruled out prior to treatment ( 5 . 5 ) • Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) during cataract surgery may require modifications to the surgical technique ( 5 . 6 ) • Discontinue alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if symptoms of angina pectoris appear or worsen ( 5 . 8 ) • Use with caution in patients with a history of QT prolongation or who are taking medications which prolong the QT interval ( 5 . 9 , 12 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Postural Hypotension Postural hypotension with or without symptoms ( e . g . , dizziness ) may develop within a few hours following administration of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
As with other alpha adrenergic antagonists , there is a potential for syncope .
Patients should be warned of the possible occurrence of such events and should avoid situations where injury could result should syncope occur .
There may be an increased risk of hypotension / postural hypotension and syncope when taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets concomitantly with anti - hypertensive medication and nitrates .
Care should be taken when alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered to patients with symptomatic hypotension or patients who have had a hypotensive response to other medications .
5 . 2 Patients with Renal Impairment Caution should be exercised when alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 3 Patients with Hepatic Impairment Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Although the pharmacokinetics of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment , caution should be exercised when alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered to such patients [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Drug - Drug Interactions Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Alfuzosin hydrochloride is contraindicated for use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) since alfuzosin blood levels are increased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Other alpha adrenergic antagonists : Alfuzosin hydrochloride is an alpha adrenergic antagonist and should not be used in combination with other alpha adrenergic antagonist [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Phosphodiesterase - 5 ( PDE5 ) Inhibitors : PDE5 - inhibitors are also vasodilators .
Caution is advised for concomitant use of PDE5 - inhibitors and alfuzosin hydrochloride , as this combination can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Prostatic Carcinoma Carcinoma of the prostate and benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) cause many of the same symptoms .
These two diseases frequently coexist .
Therefore , patients thought to have BPH should be examined to rule out the presence of carcinoma of the prostate prior to starting treatment with alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
5 . 6 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) IFIS has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients on or previously treated with alpha adrenergic antagonists .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of a flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
The patient ’ s ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
There does not appear to be a benefit of stopping alpha adrenergic antagonist therapy prior to cataract surgery .
5 . 7 Priapism Rarely ( probably less than 1 in 50 , 000 ) , alfuzosin , like other alpha adrenergic antagonists , has been associated with priapism ( persistent painful penile erection unrelated to sexual activity ) .
Because this condition can lead to permanent impotence if not properly treated , patients should be advised about the seriousness of the condition [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 8 Coronary Insufficiency If symptoms of angina pectoris should appear or worsen , alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be discontinued .
5 . 9 Patients with Congenital or Acquired QT Prolongation Use with caution in patients with acquired or congenital QT prolongation or who are taking medications that prolong the QT interval [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS • Most common adverse reactions in clinical studies ( incidence ≥ 2 % and at a higher incidence than placebo ) : dizziness , upper respiratory tract infection , headache , fatigue .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The incidence of adverse reactions has been ascertained from 3 placebo - controlled clinical trials involving 1 , 608 men where daily doses of 10 mg and 15 mg alfuzosin were evaluated .
In these 3 trials , 473 men received alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 10 mg .
In these trials , 4 % of patients taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 10 mg withdrew from the trial due to adverse reactions , compared with 3 % in the placebo group .
Table 1 summarizes adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients receiving alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , and at a higher incidence than that of the placebo group .
In general , the adverse reactions seen in long - term use were similar in type and frequency to the events described below for the 3 - month trials .
Table 1 — Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets - Treated Patients and More Frequently than with Placebo in 3 - Month Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials Adverse Reaction Placebo Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 678 ) ( n = 473 ) Dizziness 19 ( 2 . 8 % ) 27 ( 5 . 7 % ) Upper respiratory tract infection 4 ( 0 . 6 % ) 14 ( 3 % ) Headache 12 ( 1 . 8 % ) 14 ( 3 % ) Fatigue 12 ( 1 . 8 % ) 13 ( 2 . 7 % ) The following adverse reactions , reported by between 1 % and 2 % of patients receiving alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and occurring more frequently than with placebo , are listed alphabetically by body system and by decreasing frequency within body system : Body as a whole : pain Gastrointestinal system : abdominal pain , dyspepsia , constipation , nausea Reproductive system : impotence Respiratory system : bronchitis , sinusitis , pharyngitis Signs and Symptoms of Orthostasis in Clinical Trials : The adverse reactions related to orthostasis that occurred in the double - blind phase 3 trials with alfuzosin 10 mg are summarized in Table 2 .
Approximately 20 % to 30 % of patients in these trials were taking antihypertensive medication .
Table 2 — Number ( % ) of Patients with Symptoms Possibly Associated with Orthostasis in 3 - Month Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials Symptoms Placebo Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 678 ) ( n = 473 ) Dizziness 19 ( 2 . 8 % ) 27 ( 5 . 7 % ) Hypotension or postural hypotension 0 2 ( 0 . 4 % ) Syncope 0 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) Testing for blood pressure changes or orthostatic hypotension was conducted in three controlled studies .
Decreased systolic blood pressure ( ≤ 90 mm Hg , with a decrease ≥ 20 mm Hg from baseline ) was observed in none of the 674 placebo patients and 1 ( 0 . 2 % ) of the 469 alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet patients .
Decreased diastolic blood pressure ( ≤ 50 mm Hg , with a decrease ≥ 15 mm Hg from baseline ) was observed in 3 ( 0 . 4 % ) of the placebo patients and in 4 ( 0 . 9 % ) of the alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet patients .
A positive orthostatic test ( decrease in systolic blood pressure of ≥ 20 mm Hg upon standing from the supine position ) was seen in 52 ( 7 . 7 % ) of placebo patients and in 31 ( 6 . 6 % ) of the alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet patients .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
General disorders : edema Cardiac disorders : tachycardia , chest pain , angina pectoris in patients with preexisting coronary artery disease , atrial fibrillation Gastrointestinal disorders : diarrhea , vomiting Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury ( including cases with jaundice leading to drug discontinuation ) Respiratory system disorders : rhinitis Reproductive system disorders : priapism Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : rash , pruritis , urticaria , angioedema , toxic epidermal necrolysis Vascular disorders : flushing Blood and lymphatic system disorders : thrombocytopenia During cataract surgery , a variant of small pupil syndrome known as Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) has been reported in some patients on or previously treated with alpha adrenergic antagonists [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Concomitant use of PDE5 inhibitors with alpha adrenergic antagonists , including alfuzosin hydrochloride , can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension ( 5 . 4 , 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 CYP3A4 Inhibitors Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tabletsare contraindicated for use with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as ketoconazole , itraconazole , or ritonavir , since alfuzosin blood levels are increased [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Alpha Adrenergic Antagonists The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and other alpha adrenergic antagonists have not been determined .
However , interactions may be expected , and alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used in combination with other alpha adrenergic antagonists [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Antihypertensive Medication and Nitrates There may be an increased risk of hypotension / postural hypotension and syncope when taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets concomitantly with anti - hypertensive medication and nitrates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 4 PDE5 Inhibitors Caution is advised when alpha adrenergic antagonists , including alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , are coadministered with PDE5 inhibitors .
Alpha adrenergic antagonists and PDE5 inhibitors are both vasodilators that can lower blood pressure .
Concomitant use of these two drug classes can potentially cause symptomatic hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Alfuzosin is not indicated for use in women .
There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with use of alfuzosin in pregnant women .
Based on findings from animal studies , alfuzosin administered during the period of organogenesis was not teratogenic , embryotoxic or fetotoxic at up to 1200 times the MRHD of 10 mg via AUC in rats and 3 times in rabbits , via body surface area .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancy is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal data Alfuzosin was not teratogenic , embryotoxic or fetotoxic in rats at plasma exposure levels ( based on AUC of unbound drug ) up to 1200 times ( maternal oral dose of 250 mg / kg / day ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 10 mg .
In rabbits administered up to 3 times the MRHD ( based on body surface area ) ( maternal oral dose of 100 mg / kg / day ) no embryofetal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed .
Gestation was slightly prolonged in rats at exposure levels ( based on AUC of unbound drug ) approximately 12 times ( greater than 5 mg / kg / day oral maternal dose ) the MRHD , but difficulties with parturition were not observed .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Alfuzosin is not indicated for use in women .
There are no data on the presence of alfuzosin in human milk , the effect on the breastfed child , or effect on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated for use in the pediatric population .
Efficacy of alfuzosin hydrochloride was not demonstrated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , efficacy and safety trial conducted in 172 patients ages 2 to 16 years with elevated detrusor leak point pressure ( LPP ≥ 40 cm H2O ) of neurologic origin treated with alfuzosin hydrochloride using pediatric formulations .
The trial included a 12 - week efficacy phase followed by a 40 - week safety extension period .
No statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients achieving a detrusor leak point pressure of < 40 cm H20 was observed between the alfuzosin and placebo groups .
During the placebo - controlled trial , the adverse reactions reported in ≥ 2 % of patients treated with alfuzosin and at a higher incidence than in the placebo group were : pyrexia , headache , respiratory tract infection , cough , epistaxis and diarrhea .
The adverse reactions reported for the whole 12 - month trial period , which included the open - label extension , were similar in type and frequency to the reactions observed during the 12 - week period .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride was not studied in patients below the age of 2 .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , 48 % were 65 years of age and over , whereas 11 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] 8 . 6 Renal Impairment Systemic exposure was increased by approximately 50 % in pharmacokinetic studies of patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
In phase 3 studies , the safety profile of patients with mild ( n = 172 ) or moderate ( n = 56 ) renal impairment was similar to the patients with normal renal function in those studies .
Safety data are available in only a limited number of patients ( n = 6 ) with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min ; therefore , caution should be exercised when alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are administered in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated for use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Should overdose of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets lead to hypotension , support of the cardiovascular system is of first importance .
Restoration of blood pressure and normalization of heart rate may be accomplished by keeping the patient in the supine position .
If this measure is inadequate , then the administration of intravenous fluids should be considered .
If necessary , vasopressors should then be used , and the renal function should be monitored and supported as needed .
Alfuzosin is 82 % to 90 % protein bound ; therefore , dialysis may not be of benefit .
11 DESCRIPTION Each alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet contains 10 mg alfuzosin hydrochloride , USP as the active ingredient .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder that melts at approximately 240 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water , sparingly soluble in alcohol , and practically insoluble in dichloromethane .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride is ( R , S ) - N - [ 3 - [ ( 4 - amino - 6 , 7 - dimethoxy - 2 - quinazolinyl ) methylamino ] propyl ] tetrahydro - 2 - furancarboxamide hydrochloride .
The molecular formula of alfuzosin hydrochloride is C19H27N5O4 • HCl .
The molecular weight of alfuzosin hydrochloride is 425 . 9 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The tablet also contains the following inactive ingredients : pregelatinized maize starch , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , basic butylated methacrylate copolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , and talc .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Alfuzosin is a selective antagonist of post - synaptic alpha1 - adrenoreceptors , which are located in the prostate , bladder base , bladder neck , prostatic capsule , and prostatic urethra .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Alfuzosin exhibits selectivity for alpha adrenergic receptors in the lower urinary tract .
Blockade of these adrenoreceptors can cause smooth muscle in the bladder neck and prostate to relax , resulting in an improvement in urine flow and a reduction in symptoms of BPH .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of 10 mg and 40 mg alfuzosin on QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized , placebo and active - controlled ( moxifloxacin 400 mg ) , 4 - way crossover single dose study in 45 healthy white male subjects aged 19 to 45 years .
The QT interval was measured at the time of peak alfuzosin plasma concentrations .
The 40 mg dose of alfuzosin was chosen because this dose achieves higher blood levels than those achieved with the coadministration of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and ketoconazole 400 mg .
Table 3 summarizes the effect on uncorrected QT and mean corrected QT interval ( QTc ) with different methods of correction ( Fridericia , population - specific and subject - specific correction methods ) at the time of peak alfuzosin plasma concentrations .
No single one of these correction methodologies is known to be more valid .
The mean change of heart rate associated with a 10 mg dose of alfuzosin in this study was 5 . 2 beats / minute and 5 . 8 beats / minute with 40 mg alfuzosin .
The change in heart rate with moxifloxacin was 2 . 8 beats / minute .
Table 3 - Mean QT and QTc changes in msec ( 95 % CI ) from baseline at Tmax ( relative to placebo ) with different methodologies to correct for effect of heart rate .
Drug / Dose QT Fridericia method Population - specific method Subject - specific method Alfuzosin 10 mg - 5 . 8 ( - 10 . 2 , - 1 . 4 ) 4 . 9 ( 0 . 9 , 8 . 8 ) 1 . 8 ( - 1 . 4 , 5 ) 1 . 8 ( - 1 . 3 , 5 ) Alfuzosin 40 mg - 4 . 2 ( - 8 . 5 , 0 . 2 ) 7 . 7 ( 1 . 9 , 13 . 5 ) 4 . 2 ( - 0 . 6 , 9 ) 4 . 3 ( - 0 . 5 , 9 . 2 ) Moxifloxacin [ 1 ] 400 mg 6 . 9 ( 2 . 3 , 11 . 5 ) 12 . 7 ( 8 . 6 , 16 . 8 ) 11 ( 7 , 15 ) 11 . 1 ( 7 . 2 , 15 ) [ 1 ] Active control The QT effect appeared greater for 40 mg compared to 10 mg alfuzosin .
The effect of the highest alfuzosin dose ( four times the therapeutic dose ) studied did not appear as large as that of the active control moxifloxacin at its therapeutic dose .
This study , however , was not designed to make direct statistical comparisons between the drugs or the dose levels .
There has been no signal of Torsade de Pointes in the extensive postmarketing experience with alfuzosin outside the United States .
A separate postmarketing QT study evaluated the effect of the coadministration of 10 mg alfuzosin with a drug of similar QT effect size .
In this study , the mean placebo - subtracted QTcF increase of alfuzosin 10 mg alone was 1 . 9 msec ( upperbound 95 % CI , 5 . 5 msec ) .
The concomitant administration of the two drugs showed an increased QT effect when compared with either drug alone .
This QTcF increase [ 5 . 9 msec ( UB 95 % CI , 9 . 4 msec ) ] was not more than additive .
Although this study was not designed to make direct statistical comparisons between drugs , the QT increase with both drugs given together appeared to be lower than the QTcF increase seen with the positive control moxifloxacin 400 mg [ 10 . 2 msec ( UB 95 % CI , 13 . 8 msec ) ] .
The clinical impact of these QTc changes is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have been evaluated in adult healthy male volunteers after single and / or multiple administration with daily doses ranging from 7 . 5 mg to 30 mg , and in patients with BPH at doses from 7 . 5 mg to 15 mg .
Absorption The absolute bioavailability of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release 10 mg tablets under fed conditions is 49 % .
Following multiple dosing of 10 mg alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets under fed conditions , the time to maximum concentration is 8 hours .
Cmax and AUC0 - 24 are 13 . 6 ( SD = 5 . 6 ) ng / mL and 194 ( SD = 75 ) ng · h / mL , respectively .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets exhibits linear kinetics following single and multiple dosing up to 30 mg .
Steady - state plasma levels are reached with the second dose of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet administration .
Steady - state alfuzosin plasma concentrations are 1 . 2 - to 1 . 6 - fold higher than those observed after a single administration .
Effect of Food As illustrated in Figure 1 , the extent of absorption is 50 % lower under fasting conditions .
Therefore , alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken with food and with the same meal each day [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 – Mean ( SEM ) Alfuzosin Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles after a Single Administration of Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release 10 mg Tablets to 8 Healthy Middle - Aged Male Volunteers in Fed and Fasted States Distribution The volume of distribution following intravenous administration in healthy male middle - aged volunteers was 3 . 2 L / kg .
Results of in vitro studies indicate that alfuzosin is moderately bound to human plasma proteins ( 82 % to 90 % ) , with linear binding over a wide concentration range ( 5 ng / mL to 5 , 000 ng / mL ) .
Metabolism Alfuzosin undergoes extensive metabolism by the liver , with only 11 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Alfuzosin is metabolized by three metabolic pathways : oxidation , O - demethylation , and N - dealkylation .
The metabolites are not pharmacologically active .
CYP3A4 is the principal hepatic enzyme isoform involved in its metabolism .
Excretion Following oral administration of 14 C - labeled alfuzosin solution , the recovery of radioactivity after 7 days ( expressed as a percentage of the administered dose ) was 69 % in feces and 24 % in urine .
Following oral administration of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release10 mg tablets , the apparent elimination half - life is 10 hours .
Specific Populations Geriatric Use : In a pharmacokinetic assessment during phase 3 clinical studies in patients with BPH , there was no relationship between peak plasma concentrations of alfuzosin and age .
However , trough levels were positively correlated with age .
The concentrations in subjects ≥ 75 years of age were approximately 35 % greater than in those below 65 years of age .
Renal Impairment : The Pharmacokinetic profiles of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release10 mg tablets in subjects with normal renal function ( CLCR > 80 mL / min ) , mild impairment ( CLCR 60 to 80 mL / min ) , moderate impairment ( CLCR 30 to 59 mL / min ) , and severe impairment ( CLCR < 30 mL / min ) were compared .
These clearances were calculated by the Cockcroft - Gault formula .
Relative to subjects with normal renal function , the mean Cmax and AUC values were increased by approximately 50 % in patients with mild , moderate , or severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with mild hepatic impairment .
In patients with moderate or severe hepatic insufficiency ( Child - Pugh categories B and C ) , the plasma apparent clearance ( CL / F ) was reduced to approximately one - third to one - fourth that observed in healthy subjects .
This reduction in clearance results in three to four - fold higher plasma concentrations of alfuzosin in these patients compared to healthy subjects .
Therefore , alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Pediatric Use : Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not indicated for use in the pediatric population [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Drug - Drug Interactions Metabolic Interactions CYP3A4 is the principal hepatic enzyme isoform involved in the metabolism of alfuzosin .
Potent CYP3A4 Inhibitors Repeated oral administration of 400 mg / day of ketoconazole , a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , increased alfuzosin Cmax by 2 . 3 - fold and AUClast by 3 . 2 - fold , following a single 10 mg dose of alfuzosin .
In another study , repeated oral administration of a lower ( 200 mg / day ) dose of ketoconazole increased alfuzosin Cmax by 2 . 1 - fold and AUClast by 2 . 5 - fold , following a single 10 mg dose of alfuzosin .
Therefore , alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated for coadministration with potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , or ritonavir ) because of increased alfuzosin exposure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Moderate CYP3A4 Inhibitors Diltiazem : Repeated coadministration of 240 mg / day of diltiazem , a moderately - potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 , with 7 . 5 mg / day ( 2 . 5 mg three times daily ) alfuzosin ( equivalent to the exposure with alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ) increased the Cmax and AUC0 - 24 of alfuzosin 1 . 5 - and 1 . 3 - fold , respectively .
Alfuzosin increased the Cmax and AUC0 - 12 of diltiazem 1 . 4 - fold .
Although no changes in blood pressure were observed in this study , diltiazem is an antihypertensive medication and the combination of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and antihypertensive medications has the potential to cause hypotension in some patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In human liver microsomes , at concentrations that are achieved at the therapeutic dose , alfuzosin did not inhibit CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 or 3A4 isoenzymes .
In primary culture of human hepatocytes , alfuzosin did not induce CYP1A , 2A6 or 3A4 isoenzymes .
Other Interactions Warfarin : Multiple dose administration of an immediate release tablet formulation of alfuzosin 5 mg twice daily for six days to six healthy male volunteers did not affect the pharmacological response to a single 25 mg oral dose of warfarin .
Digoxin : Repeated coadministration of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release 10 mg tablets and digoxin 0 . 25 mg / day for 7 days did not influence the steady - state pharmacokinetics of either drug .
Cimetidine : Repeated administration of 1 g / day cimetidine increased both alfuzosin Cmax and AUC values by 20 % .
Atenolol : Single administration of 100 mg atenolol with a single dose of 2 . 5 mg of an immediate release alfuzosin tablet in eight healthy young male volunteers increased alfuzosin Cmax and AUC values by 28 % and 21 % , respectively .
Alfuzosin increased atenolol Cmax and AUC values by 26 % and 14 % , respectively .
In this study , the combination of alfuzosin with atenolol caused significant reductions in mean blood pressure and in mean heart rate .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide : Single administration of 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide did not modify the pharmacokinetic parameters of alfuzosin .
There was no evidence of pharmacodynamic interaction between alfuzosin and hydrochlorothiazide in the 8 patients in this study .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a drug - related increase in the incidence of tumors in mice following dietary administration of 100 mg / kg / day alfuzosin for 98 weeks ( 13 and 15 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 10 mg based on AUC of unbound drug ) , in females and males , respectively .
The highest dose tested in female mice may not have constituted a maximally tolerated dose .
Likewise , there was no evidence of a drug - related increase in the incidence of tumors in rats following dietary administration of 100 mg / kg / day alfuzosin for 104 weeks ( 53 and 37 times the MRHD in females and males , respectively ) .
Alfuzosin showed no evidence of mutagenic effect in the Ames and mouse lymphoma assays , and was free of any clastogenic effects in the Chinese hamster ovary cell and in vivo mouse micronucleus assays .
Alfuzosin treatment did not induce DNA repair in a human cell line .
There was no evidence of reproductive organ toxicity when male rats were administered oral doses of several hundred times ( 250 mg / kg / day for 26 weeks ) the MRHD of alfuzosin .
No impairment of fertility was observed following oral ( gavage ) administration to male rats at doses of up to 125 mg / kg / day for 70 days .
Estrous cycling was inhibited in rats and dogs at approximately 12 and 18 times the MRHD respectively ( doses of 25 mg / kg and 20 mg / kg , respectively ) , but did not result in impaired fertility in female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Three randomized placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel - arm , 12 - week trials were conducted with the 10 mg daily dose of alfuzosin .
In these three trials , 1 , 608 patients [ mean age 64 . 2 years , range 49 to 92 years ; Caucasian ( 96 . 1 % ) , Black ( 1 . 6 % ) , Asian ( 1 . 1 % ) , Other ( 1 . 2 % ) ] were randomized and 473 patients received alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release 10 mg tablet daily .
Table 4 provides the results of the three trials that evaluated the 10 mg dose .
There were two primary efficacy variables in these three studies .
The International Prostate Symptom Score ( IPSS , or AUA Symptom Score ) consists of seven questions that assess the severity of both irritative ( frequency , urgency , nocturia ) and obstructive ( incomplete emptying , stopping and starting , weak stream , and pushing or straining ) symptoms , with possible scores ranging from 0 to 35 with higher numerical scores on the IPSS total symptom score representing greater severity of symptoms .
The second efficacy variable was peak urinary flow rate .
The peak flow rate was measured just prior to the next dose in study 2 and on average at 16 hours post - dosing in trials 1 and 3 .
There was a statistically significant reduction from baseline to last assessment ( Week 12 ) in the IPSS total symptom score versus placebo in all three studies , indicating a reduction in symptom severity ( Table 5 and Figures 2 , 3 , and 4 ) .
Table 4 — Mean Change ( SD ) from Baseline to week 12 in International Prostate Symptom Score in Three Randomized , Controlled , Double Blind Trials Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 Symptom Score Placebo ( n = 167 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 170 ) Placebo ( n = 152 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 137 ) Placebo ( n = 150 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 151 ) Total symptom score Baseline 18 . 2 ( 6 . 4 ) 18 . 2 ( 6 . 3 ) 17 . 7 ( 4 . 1 ) 17 . 3 ( 3 . 5 ) 17 . 7 ( 5 ) 18 ( 5 . 4 ) Change [ 1 ] - 1 . 6 ( 5 . 8 ) - 3 . 6 ( 4 . 8 ) - 4 . 9 ( 5 . 9 ) - 6 . 9 ( 4 . 9 ) - 4 . 6 ( 5 . 8 ) - 6 . 5 ( 5 . 2 ) p - value 0 . 001 0 . 002 0 . 007 [ 1 ] Difference between baseline and week 12 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Peak urinary flow rate was increased statistically significantly from baseline to last assessment ( Week 12 ) versus placebo in trials 1 and 2 ( Table 5 and Figures 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .
Table 5 — Mean ( SD ) Change from Baseline to Week 12 in Peak Urine Flow Rate ( mL / sec ) in Three Randomized , Controlled , Double - Blind Trials Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 Placebo ( n = 167 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 170 ) Placebo ( n = 147 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 136 ) Placebo ( n = 150 ) Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 10 mg ( n = 151 ) Mean peak flow rate Baseline 10 . 2 ( 4 ) 9 . 9 ( 3 . 9 ) 9 . 2 ( 2 ) 9 . 4 ( 1 . 9 ) 9 . 3 ( 2 . 6 ) 9 . 5 ( 3 ) Change [ 1 ] 0 . 2 ( 3 . 5 ) 1 . 7 ( 4 . 2 ) 1 . 4 ( 3 . 2 ) 2 . 3 ( 3 . 6 ) 0 . 9 ( 3 ) 1 . 5 ( 3 . 3 ) p - value 0 . 0004 0 . 03 0 . 22 [ 1 ] Difference between baseline and week 12 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mean total IPSS decreased at the first scheduled observation at Day 28 and mean peak flow rate increased starting at the first scheduled observation at Day 14 in trials 2 and 3 and Day 28 in trial 1 .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 10 mg are available as white to off white , round shaped , biconvex , uncoated tablet debossed with ‘ 956 ’ on one side and plain on other side .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are supplied as follows : Bottles of 100 ’ s … … … … … … … … … … … … .......... NDC 63629 - 2354 - 1 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Keep alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets out of reach of children .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling .
17 . 1 Hypotension / Syncope Patients should be told about the possible occurrence of symptoms related to postural hypotension , such as dizziness , when beginning alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , and they should be cautioned about driving , operating machinery , or performing hazardous tasks during this period .
This is important for those with low blood pressure or who are taking antihypertensive medications or nitrates [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
17 . 2 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome Patients should be instructed to tell their ophthalmologist about their use of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets before cataract surgery or other procedures involving the eyes , even if the patient is no longer taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
17 . 3 Priapism Patients should be advised about the possibility of priapism resulting from treatment with alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and medications in the same class .
Although this reaction is extremely rare , but if not brought to immediate medical attention , can lead to permanent erectile dysfunction ( impotence ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
17 . 4 Instructions of Use Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken with food and with the same meal each day .
Patients should be advised not to crush or chew alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
PATIENT INFORMATION Alfuzosin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( al - FUE - zoe - sin HYE - droe - KLOR - ide ) Read the Patient Information that comes with alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your condition or your treatment .
You and your doctor should talk about all your medicines , including alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , now and at your regular checkups .
What is the most important information I should know about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects , including a sudden drop in blood pressure , especially when you start treatment .
This may cause you to faint , or to feel dizzy or lightheaded .
• Your risk of having this problem may be increased if you take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with certain other medicine that lowers blood pressure : • medicines for high blood pressure • a nitrate medicine for angina Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking one of these medicines .
• Do not drive , operate machinery , or do any dangerous activities until you know how alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets affect you .
This is especially important if you already have a problem with low blood pressure or take medicines to treat high blood pressure .
• If you begin to feel dizzy or lightheaded , lie down with your legs and feet up .
If your symptoms do not improve call your doctor .
See the section “ What are the possible side effects of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
for more information about side effects .
What is alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet ?
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet is a prescription medicine that is called an “ alpha - blocker ” .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet is used in adult men to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may help to relax the muscles in the prostate and the bladder which may lessen the symptoms of BPH and improve urine flow .
Before prescribing alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , your doctor may examine your prostate gland and do a blood test called a prostate specific antigen ( PSA ) test to check for prostate cancer .
Prostate cancer and BPH can cause the same symptoms .
Prostate cancer needs a different treatment .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for use in women or children .
Some medicines called “ alpha - blockers ” are used to treat high blood pressure .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for the treatment of high blood pressure .
Who should not take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Do not take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • have certain liver problems • take antifungal medicines like ketoconazole ( Nizarol * ) or itraconazole ( Sporanox * ) • take anti - HIV medicines like ritonavir ( Norvir * , Kaletra * ) • are allergic to alfuzosin hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Before taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have liver problems • have kidney problems • have had low blood pressure , especially after taking another medicine .
Signs of low blood pressure are fainting , dizziness , and lightheadedness .
• have a heart problem called angina • or any family members have a rare heart condition known as congenital prolongation of the QT interval .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Some of your other medicines may affect the way alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works and cause serious side effects .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • another alpha blocker medicine • a medicine to treat high blood pressure • a medicine to treat angina • a medicine to treat erectile dysfunction ( ED ) • the antifungal medicines like ketoconazole ( Nizoral * ) or itraconazole ( Sporanox * ) • the anti - HIV medicine like , ritonavir ( Norvir * , Kaletra * ) Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one of those listed above .
What you need to know while taking alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• If you have an eye surgery for cataract ( clouding of the eye ) planned , tell your ophthalmologist that you are using alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or have previously been treated with an alpha - blocker .
How do I take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets come in child - resistant package .
• Take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet exactly as your doctor prescribes it .
• Take alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet after the same meal each day .
Do not take it on an empty stomach .
• Swallow the alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablet whole .
Do not crush , split , or chew alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• If you take too many alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets call your local poison control center or emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause serious side effects , including : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
• A painful erection that will not go away .
Alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can cause a painful erection ( priapism ) , which cannot be relieved by having sex .
If this happens , get medical help right away .
If priapism is not treated , you may not be able to get an erection in the future .
The most common side effects with alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are : • dizziness • headache • tiredness Call your doctor if you get any side effect that bothers you .
These are not all the side effects of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
For more information ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How do I store alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Store alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
• Protect from light and moisture .
Keep alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for health professionals .
You may also call 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 What are the ingredients of alfuzosin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Active Ingredient : alfuzosin hydrochloride , USP Inactive Ingredients : pregelatinized maize starch , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , basic butylated methacrylate copolymer , colloidal silicon dioxide , magnesium stearate , and talc .
* All trademark names are the property of their respective owners .
Distributed by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries , Inc .
Cranbury , NJ 08512 Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
Halol - Baroda Highway , Halol - 389 350 , Gujarat , India ISS .
06 / 2020 PJPI0348E Alfuzosin Hcl ER 10 mg Tab , # 100 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
