COMPOSITION Amount per Capsule : VITAMINS AND MINERALS : Vitamin A ( as beta carotene ) 330 mcg RAE Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 30 mg Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 25 mcg Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 9 mg Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 as thiamine mononitrate ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg NE Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate ( 680 mcg DFE from folic acid & 1020 mcg DFE from l - methylfolate calcium ) 1700 mcg DFE Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 12 mcg Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 29 mg Iodine ( as potassium iodide ) 150 mcg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 20 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 25 mg Copper ( as copper oxide ) 2 mg Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ( from natural algal oil ) 200 mg Other Ingredients : Gelatin ( Bovine ) , Glycerin , Soybean Oil , Yellow Beeswax , Sorbitol , Purified Water , Soy Lecithin , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Mannitol , FD & C Blue # 1 , Ethyl Vanillin .
Titanium Dioxide ( color ) .
May contain : Sunflower Oil , Olive Oil .
Contains : Soy .
USAGE Vitafol ® Ultra provides vitamin , mineral , and DHA supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
* Vitafol ® Ultra does not contain fish , fish oils , fish proteins or fish byproducts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Vitafol ® Ultra is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B12 ) .
Warning Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Vitafol ® Ultra contains soy and should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased risk of heart disease can occur .
Iodine should be used with caution in patients with an overactive thyroid .
Prolonged use of iron salts may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid Overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions Medications for an overactive thyroid ( anti - thyroid drugs ) used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may lead to hypothyroidism .
Medications for hypertension used in conjunction with iodine supplementation may increase potassium .
High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs ; carbamazepine , fosphenytoin , phenytoin , phenobarbitol , valproic acid .
Folic acid may decrease a patient ' s response to methotrexate .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Vitafol ® Ultra .
However , allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at any dose .
Reported adverse events include skin ailments , gastrointestinal complaints , glucose abnormalities , and visual problems .
Contact your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events .
To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , contact 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 .
DIRECTIONS FOR USE Before , during and after pregnancy , one softgel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Vitafol ® Ultra is available as a dark blue , oval shaped softgel capsule imprinted " EV0093 " .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 softgel capsules ) , 0642 - 0093 - 30 and as professional samples , 0642 - 0093 - 03 .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat and moisture .
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration .
This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease .
Rx Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2022 Exeltis USA , Inc .
All rights reserved .
Vitafol ® is a trademark of Exeltis Healthcare S . L . U . S . Patent No . 8 , 183 , 227 Rev . December 2022 0933001 - 03 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Capsule Blister Pack Box 0642 - 0093 - 30 V ® VITAFOL ULTRA Prenatal Supplement with 200 mg DHA Unit Dose Pack 30 Softgel Capsules R x DIETARY SUPPLEMENT U . S . PATENTED [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
