1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Amlodipine besylate tablets is a calcium channel blocker and may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of : • Hypertension ( 1 . 1 ) • Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
• Coronary Artery Disease ( 1 . 2 ) • Chronic Stable Angina • Vasospastic Angina ( Prinzmetal ’ s or Variant Angina ) • Angiographically Documented Coronary Artery Disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % 1 . 1 Hypertension Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including Amlodipine besylate tablets .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy .
Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
1 . 2 Coronary Artery Disease ( CAD ) Chronic Stable Angina Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina .
Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used alone or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Vasospastic Angina ( Prinzmetal ’ s or Variant Angina ) Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated for the treatment of confirmed or suspected vasospastic angina .
Amlodipine besylate tablets may be used as monotherapy or in combination with other antianginal agents .
Angiographically Documented CAD In patients with recently documented CAD by angiography and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % , Amlodipine besylate tablets is indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for angina and to reduce the risk of a coronary revascularization procedure .
2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION • Adult recommended starting dose : 5 mg once daily with maximum dose 10 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Small , fragile , or elderly patients , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2 . 5 mg once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Pediatric starting dose : 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) Important Limitation : Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Adults The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of Amlodipine besylate tablets is 5 mg once daily , and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily .
Small , fragile , or elderly patients , or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2 . 5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding Amlodipine besylate tablets to other antihypertensive therapy .
Adjust dosage according to blood pressure goals .
In general , wait 7 to 14 days between titration steps .
Titrate more rapidly , however , if clinically warranted , provided the patient is assessed frequently .
Angina : The recommended dose for chronic stable or vasospastic angina is 5 to 10 mg , with the lower dose suggested in the elderly and in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Most patients will require 10 mg for adequate effect .
Coronary artery disease : The recommended dose range for patients with coronary artery disease is 5 to 10 mg once daily .
In clinical studies , the majority of patients required 10 mg [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
2 . 2 Children The effective antihypertensive oral dose in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years is 2 . 5 mg to 5 mg once daily .
Doses in excess of 5 mg daily have not been studied in pediatric patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Tablets : 2 . 5 mg white to off white , round , flat - faced , beveled edge tablets ' 211 ' debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 5 mg white to off white , round , flat - faced , beveled edge tablets ' 210 ' debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
Tablets : 10 mg white to off white , round , flat - faced , beveled edge tablets ' 209 ' debossed on one side and plain on the other side .
• Tablets : 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Amlodipine besylate tablets are contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to amlodipine .
• Known sensitivity to amlodipine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
However , acute hypotension is unlikely .
( 5 . 1 ) • Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Titrate slowly in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension Symptomatic hypotension is possible , particularly in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
Because of the gradual onset of action , acute hypotension is unlikely .
5 . 2 Increased Angina or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine besylate tablets , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
5 . 3 Patients with Hepatic Failure Because amlodipine is extensively metabolized by the liver and the plasma elimination half - life ( t 1 / 2 ) is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function , titrate slowly when administering amlodipine to patients with severe hepatic impairment .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reaction to amlodipine is edema which occurred in a dose related manner .
Other adverse experiences not dose related but reported with an incidence > 1 . 0 % are fatigue , nausea , abdominal pain , and somnolence .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ascend Laboratories , LLC at 1 - 877 - ASC - RX01 ( 877 - 272 - 7901 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Amlodipine has been evaluated for safety in more than 11 , 000 patients in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
In general , treatment with amlodipine was well - tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily .
Most adverse reactions reported during therapy with amlodipine were of mild or moderate severity .
In controlled clinical trials directly comparing amlodipine ( N = 1730 ) at doses up to 10 mg to placebo ( N = 1250 ) , discontinuation of amlodipine because of adverse reactions was required in only about 1 . 5 % of patients and was not significantly different from placebo ( about 1 % ) .
The most commonly reported side effects more frequent than placebo are reflected in the table below .
The incidence ( % ) of side effects that occurred in a dose related manner are as follows : 2 . 5 mg N = 275 Amlodipine 5 mg N = 296 10 mg N = 268 Placebo N = 520 Edema 1 . 8 3 . 0 10 . 8 0 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 1 3 . 4 3 . 4 1 . 5 Flushing 0 . 7 1 . 4 2 . 6 0 . 0 Palpitation 0 . 7 1 . 4 4 . 5 0 . 6 Other adverse reactions that were not clearly dose related but were reported with an incidence greater than 1 . 0 % in placebo - controlled clinical trials include the following : Amlodipine ( % ) ( N = 1730 ) Placebo ( % ) ( N = 1250 ) Fatigue 4 . 5 2 . 8 Nausea 2 . 9 1 . 9 Abdominal Pain 1 . 6 0 . 3 Somnolence 1 . 4 0 . 6 For several adverse experiences that appear to be drug and dose related , there was a greater incidence in women than men associated with amlodipine treatment as shown in the following table : Amlodipine Placebo Male = % ( N = 1218 ) Female = % ( N = 512 ) Male = % ( N = 914 ) Female = % ( N = 336 ) Edema 5 . 6 14 . 6 1 . 4 5 . 1 Flushing 1 . 5 4 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 9 Palpitations 1 . 4 3 . 3 0 . 9 0 . 9 Somnolence 1 . 3 1 . 6 0 . 8 0 . 3 The following events occurred in < 1 % but > 0 . 1 % of patients in controlled clinical trials or under conditions of open trials or marketing experience where a causal relationship is uncertain ; they are listed to alert the physician to a possible relationship : Cardiovascular : arrhythmia ( including ventricular tachycardia and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , chest pain , peripheral ischemia , syncope , tachycardia , vasculitis .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System : hypoesthesia , neuropathy peripheral , paresthesia , tremor , vertigo .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia , constipation , dysphagia , diarrhea , flatulence , pancreatitis , vomiting , gingival hyperplasia .
General : allergic reaction , asthenia , 1 back pain , hot flushes , malaise , pain , rigors , weight gain , weight decrease .
Musculoskeletal System : arthralgia , arthrosis , muscle cramps , 1 myalgia .
Psychiatric : sexual dysfunction ( male 1 and female ) , insomnia , nervousness , depression , abnormal dreams , anxiety , depersonalization .
Respiratory System : dyspnea , 1 epistaxis .
Skin and Appendages : angioedema , erythema multiforme , pruritus , 1 rash , 1 rash erythematous , rash maculopapular .
Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye pain , tinnitus .
Urinary System : micturition frequency , micturition disorder , nocturia .
Autonomic Nervous System : dry mouth , sweating increased .
Metabolic and Nutritional : hyperglycemia , thirst .
Hemopoietic : leukopenia , purpura , thrombocytopenia .
1 These events occurred in less than 1 % in placebo - controlled trials , but the incidence of these side effects was between 1 % and 2 % in all multiple dose studies .
Amlodipine therapy has not been associated with clinically significant changes in routine laboratory tests .
No clinically relevant changes were noted in serum potassium , serum glucose , total triglycerides , total cholesterol , HDL cholesterol , uric acid , blood urea nitrogen , or creatinine .
In the CAMELOT and PREVENT studies [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] , the adverse event profile was similar to that reported previously ( see above ) , with the most common adverse event being peripheral edema .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following postmarketing event has been reported infrequently where a causal relationship is uncertain : gynecomastia .
In postmarketing experience , jaundice and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis or hepatitis ) , in some cases severe enough to require hospitalization , have been reported in association with use of amlodipine .
Postmarketing reporting has also revealed a possible association between extrapyramidal disorder and amlodipine .
Amlodipine has been used safely in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , well - compensated congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , and abnormal lipid profiles .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Impact of Other Drugs on Amlodipine CYP3A Inhibitors Co - administration with CYP3A inhibitors ( moderate and strong ) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
CYP3A Inducers No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be closely monitored when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A inducers .
Sildenafil Monitor for hypotension when sildenafil is co - administered with amlodipine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) 7 . 2 Impact of Amlodipine on Other Drugs Simvastatin Co - administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Immunosuppressants Amlodipine may increase the systemic exposure of cyclosporine or tacrolimus when co - administered .
Frequent monitoring of trough blood levels of cyclosporine and tacrolimus is recommended and adjust the dose when appropriate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pediatric : Effect on patients less than 6 years old is not known .
( 8 . 4 ) • Geriatric : Start dosing at the low end of the dose range .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The limited available data based on post - marketing reports with amlodipine use in pregnant women are not sufficient to inform a drug - associated risk for major birth defects and miscarriage .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled hypertension in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
In animal reproduction studies , there was no evidence of adverse developmental effects when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate during organogenesis at doses approximately 10 and 20 - times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
However for rats , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) .
Amlodipine has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Data Animal Data No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( approximately 10 and 20 times the MRHD based on body surface area , respectively ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
However for rats , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) in rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited available data from a published clinical lactation study reports that amlodipine is present in human milk at an estimated median relative infant dose of 4 . 2 % .
No adverse effects of amlodipine on the breastfed infant have been observed .
There is no available information on the effects of amlodipine on milk product 8 . 4 Pediatric Use Amlodipine besylate tablets ( 2 . 5 to 5 mg daily ) is effective in lowering blood pressure in patients 6 to 17 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Effect of amlodipine on blood pressure in patients less than 6 years of age is not known .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of amlodipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Elderly patients have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase of AUC of approximately 40 to 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage might be expected to cause excessive peripheral vasodilation with marked hypotension and possibly a reflex tachycardia .
In humans , experience with intentional overdosage of amlodipine is limited .
Single oral doses of amlodipine maleate equivalent to 40 mg amlodipine / kg and 100 mg amlodipine / kg in mice and rats , respectively , caused deaths .
Single oral amlodipine maleate doses equivalent to 4 or more mg amlodipine / kg or higher in dogs ( 11 or more times the maximum recommended human dose on a mg / m 2 basis ) caused a marked peripheral vasodilation and hypotension .
If massive overdose should occur , initiate active cardiac and respiratory monitoring .
Frequent blood pressure measurements are essential .
Should hypotension occur , provide cardiovascular support including elevation of the extremities and the judicious administration of fluids .
If hypotension remains unresponsive to these conservative measures , consider administration of vasopressors ( such as phenylephrine ) with attention to circulating volume and urine output .
As amlodipine is highly protein bound , hemodialysis is not likely to be of benefit .
11 DESCRIPTION Amlodipine besylate is the besylate salt of amlodipine , a long - acting calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine besylate is chemically described as 3 - Ethyl - 5 - methyl ( ± ) - 2 - [ ( 2 - aminoethoxy ) methyl ] - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate , monobenzenesulphonate .
Its molecular formula is C 20 H 25 ClN 2 O 5 • C 6 H 6 O 3 S , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amlodipine besylate is a white crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 567 . 1 .
It is slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP are formulated as white tablets equivalent to 2 . 5 , 5 , and 10 mg of amlodipine for oral administration .
In addition to the active ingredient , amlodipine besylate , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose , dibasic calcium phosphate anhydrous , sodium starch glycolate , colloidal silicon dioxide and magnesium stearate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow - channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
The precise mechanisms by which amlodipine relieves angina have not been fully delineated , but are thought to include the following : Exertional Angina : In patients with exertional angina , amlodipine reduces the total peripheral resistance ( afterload ) against which the heart works and reduces the rate pressure product , and thus myocardial oxygen demand , at any given level of exercise .
Vasospastic Angina : Amlodipine has been demonstrated to block constriction and restore blood flow in coronary arteries and arterioles in response to calcium , potassium epinephrine , serotonin , and thromboxane A2 analog in experimental animal models and in human coronary vessels in vitro .
This inhibition of coronary spasm is responsible for the effectiveness of amlodipine in vasospastic ( Prinzmetal ' s or variant ) angina .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Hemodynamics : Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
Although the acute intravenous administration of amlodipine decreases arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in hemodynamic studies of patients with chronic stable angina , chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical trials did not lead to clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressures in normotensive patients with angina .
With chronic once daily oral administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 to 114 mmHg ) had about a 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 to 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressures ( + 1 / – 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and man , even when coadministered with beta - blockers to man .
Similar findings , however , have been observed in normal or well - compensated patients with heart failure with agents possessing significant negative inotropic effects .
Electrophysiologic Effects : Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial nodal function or atrioventricular conduction in intact animals or man .
In patients with chronic stable angina , intravenous administration of 10 mg did not significantly alter A - H and H - V conduction and sinus node recovery time after pacing .
Similar results were obtained in patients receiving amlodipine and concomitant beta - blockers .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta - blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
In clinical trials with angina patients alone , amlodipine therapy did not alter electrocardiographic intervals or produce higher degrees of AV blocks .
Drug interactions Sildenafil : When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics After oral administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine , absorption produces peak plasma concentrations between 6 and 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been estimated to be between 64 and 90 % .
The bioavailability of amlodipine is not altered by the presence of food .
Amlodipine is extensively ( about 90 % ) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic metabolism with 10 % of the parent compound and 60 % of the metabolites excreted in the urine .
Ex vivo studies have shown that approximately 93 % of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
Elimination from the plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of about 30 to 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7 to 8 days of consecutive daily dosing .
The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine are not significantly influenced by renal impairment .
Patients with renal failure may therefore receive the usual initial dose .
Elderly patients and patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 to 60 % , and a lower initial dose may be required .
A similar increase in AUC was observed in patients with moderate to severe heart failure .
Drug interactions In vitro data indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the human plasma protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
Impact of other drugs on amlodipine Co - administered cimetidine , magnesium - and aluminum hydroxide antacids , sildenafil , and grapefruit juice have no impact on the exposure to amlodipine .
CYP3A inhibitors : Co - administration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin co - administration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A ( e . g . , itraconazole , clarithromycin ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Impact of amlodipine on other drugs Amlodipine is a weak inhibitor of CYP3Aand may increase exposure to CYP3Asubstrates .
Co - administered amlodipine does not affect the exposure to atorvastatin , digoxin , ethanol and the warfarin prothrombin response time .
Simvastatin : Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Cyclosporine : A prospective study in renal transplant patients ( N = 11 ) showed on an average of 40 % increase in trough cyclosporine levels when concomitantly treated with amlodipine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Tacrolimus : A prospective study in healthy Chinese volunteers ( N = 9 ) with CYP3A5 expressers showed a 2 . 5 - to 4 - fold increase in tacrolimus exposure when concomitantly administered with amlodipine compared to tacrolimus alone .
This finding was not observed in CYP3A5 non - expressers ( N = 6 ) .
However , a 3 - fold increase in plasma exposure to tacrolimus in a renal transplant patient ( CYP3A5 non - expresser ) upon initiation of amlodipine for the treatment of post - transplant hypertension resulting in reduction of tacrolimus dose has been reported .
Irrespective of the CYP3A5 genotype status , the possibility of an interaction cannot be excluded with these drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
12 . 4 Pediatric Patients Sixty - two hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years received doses of amlodipine between 1 . 25 mg and 20 mg .
Weight - adjusted clearance and volume of distribution were similar to values in adults .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 amlodipine mg / kg / day , showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a mg / m 2 basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine / day .
3 For the rat , the highest dose was , on a mg / m 2 basis , about twice the maximum recommended human dose .
3 Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( 8 times the maximum recommended human dose 3 of 10 mg / day on a mg / m 2 basis ) .
3 Based on patient weight of 50 kg 14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Effects in Hypertension Adult Patients The antihypertensive efficacy of amlodipine has been demonstrated in a total of 15 double - blind , placebo - controlled , randomized studies involving 800 patients on amlodipine and 538 on placebo .
Once daily administration produced statistically significant placebo - corrected reductions in supine and standing blood pressures at 24 hours postdose , averaging about 12 / 6 mmHg in the standing position and 13 / 7 mmHg in the supine position in patients with mild to moderate hypertension .
Maintenance of the blood pressure effect over the 24 - hour dosing interval was observed , with little difference in peak and trough effect .
Tolerance was not demonstrated in patients studied for up to 1 year .
The 3 parallel , fixed dose , dose response studies showed that the reduction in supine and standing blood pressures was dose - related within the recommended dosing range .
Effects on diastolic pressure were similar in young and older patients .
The effect on systolic pressure was greater in older patients , perhaps because of greater baseline systolic pressure .
Effects were similar in black patients and in white patients .
Pediatric Patients Two hundred sixty - eight hypertensive patients aged 6 to 17 years were randomized first to amlodipine 2 . 5 or 5 mg once daily for 4 weeks and then randomized again to the same dose or to placebo for another 4 weeks .
Patients receiving 2 . 5 mg or 5 mg at the end of 8 weeks had significantly lower systolic blood pressure than those secondarily randomized to placebo .
The magnitude of the treatment effect is difficult to interpret , but it is probably less than 5 mmHg systolic on the 5 mg dose and 3 . 3 mmHg systolic on the 2 . 5 mg dose .
Adverse events were similar to those seen in adults .
14 . 2 Effects in Chronic Stable Angina The effectiveness of 5 to 10 mg / day of amlodipine in exercise - induced angina has been evaluated in 8 placebo - controlled , double - blind clinical trials of up to 6 weeks duration involving 1038 patients ( 684 amlodipine , 354 placebo ) with chronic stable angina .
In 5 of the 8 studies , significant increases in exercise time ( bicycle or treadmill ) were seen with the 10 mg dose .
Increases in symptom - limited exercise time averaged 12 . 8 % ( 63 sec ) for Amlodipine 10 mg , and averaged 7 . 9 % ( 38 sec ) for Amlodipine 5 mg .
Amlodipine 10 mg also increased time to 1 mm ST segment deviation in several studies and decreased angina attack rate .
The sustained efficacy of amlodipine in angina patients has been demonstrated over long - term dosing .
In patients with angina , there were no clinically significant reductions in blood pressures ( 4 / 1 mmHg ) or changes in heart rate ( + 0 . 3 bpm ) .
14 . 3 Effects in Vasospastic Angina In a double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical trial of 4 weeks duration in 50 patients , amlodipine therapy decreased attacks by approximately 4 / week compared with a placebo decrease of approximately 1 / week ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Two of 23 amlodipine and 7 of 27 placebo patients discontinued from the study due to lack of clinical improvement .
14 . 4 Effects in Documented Coronary Artery Disease In PREVENT , 825 patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease were randomized to amlodipine besylate tablets ( 5 to 10 mg once daily ) or placebo and followed for 3 years .
Although the study did not show significance on the primary objective of change in coronary luminal diameter as assessed by quantitative coronary angiography , the data suggested a favorable outcome with respect to fewer hospitalizations for angina and revascularization procedures in patients with CAD .
CAMELOT enrolled 1318 patients with CAD recently documented by angiography , without left main coronary disease and without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40 % .
Patients ( 76 % males , 89 % Caucasian , 93 % enrolled at U . S . sites , 89 % with a history of angina , 52 % without PCI , 4 % with PCI and no stent , and 44 % with a stent ) were randomized to double - blind treatment with either amlodipine besylate tablets ( 5 to 10 mg once daily ) or placebo in addition to standard care that included aspirin ( 89 % ) , statins ( 83 % ) , beta - blockers ( 74 % ) , nitroglycerin ( 50 % ) , anti - coagulants ( 40 % ) , and diuretics ( 32 % ) , but excluded other calcium channel blockers .
The mean duration of follow - up was 19 months .
The primary endpoint was the time to first occurrence of one of the following events : hospitalization for angina pectoris , coronary revascularization , myocardial infarction , cardiovascular death , resuscitated cardiac arrest , hospitalization for heart failure , stroke / TIA , or peripheral vascular disease .
A total of 110 ( 16 . 6 % ) and 151 ( 23 . 1 % ) first events occurred in the amlodipine besylate tablets and placebo groups , respectively , for a hazard ratio of 0 . 691 ( 95 % CI : 0 . 540 to 0 . 884 , p = 0 . 003 ) .
The primary endpoint is summarized in Figure 1 below .
The outcome of this study was largely derived from the prevention of hospitalizations for angina and the prevention of revascularization procedures ( see Table 1 ) .
Effects in various subgroups are shown in Figure 2 .
In an angiographic substudy ( n = 274 ) conducted within CAMELOT , there was no significant difference between amlodipine and placebo on the change of atheroma volume in the coronary artery as assessed by intravascular ultrasound .
Figure 1 - Kaplan - Meier Analysis of Composite Clinical Outcomes for Amlodipine versus Placebo [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 – Effects on Primary Endpoint of Amlodipine versus Placebo across Sub - Groups [ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 1 below summarizes the significant composite endpoint and clinical outcomes from the composites of the primary endpoint .
The other components of the primary endpoint including cardiovascular death , resuscitated cardiac arrest , myocardial infarction , hospitalization for heart failure , stroke / TIA , or peripheral vascular disease did not demonstrate a significant difference between amlodipine and placebo .
Table 1 .
Incidence of Significant Clinical Outcomes for CAMELOT Clinical Outcomes N ( % ) Amlodipine ( N = 663 ) Placebo ( N = 655 ) Risk Reduction ( p - value ) Composite CV Endpoint 110 ( 16 . 6 ) 151 ( 23 . 1 ) 31 % ( 0 . 003 ) Hospitalization for Angina * 51 ( 7 . 7 ) 84 ( 12 . 8 ) 42 % ( 0 . 002 ) Coronary Revascularization * 78 ( 11 . 8 ) 103 ( 15 . 7 ) 27 % ( 0 . 033 ) * Total patients with these events [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 5 Studies in Patients with Heart Failure Amlodipine has been compared to placebo in four 8 to 12 week studies of patients with NYHA Class II / III heart failure , involving a total of 697 patients .
In these studies , there was no evidence of worsened heart failure based on measures of exercise tolerance , NYHA classification , symptoms , or left ventricular ejection fraction .
In a long - term ( follow - up at least 6 months , mean 13 . 8 months ) placebo - controlled mortality / morbidity study of amlodipine 5 to 10 mg in 1153 patients with NYHA Classes III ( n = 931 ) or IV ( n = 222 ) heart failure on stable doses of diuretics , digoxin , and ACE inhibitors , amlodipine had no effect on the primary endpoint of the study which was the combined endpoint of all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity ( as defined by life - threatening arrhythmia , acute myocardial infarction , or hospitalization for worsened heart failure ) , or on NYHA classification , or symptoms of heart failure .
Total combined all - cause mortality and cardiac morbidity events were 222 / 571 ( 39 % ) for patients on amlodipine and 246 / 583 ( 42 % ) for patients on placebo ; the cardiac morbid events represented about 25 % of the endpoints in the study .
Another study ( PRAISE - 2 ) randomized patients with NYHA Class III ( 80 % ) or IV ( 20 % ) heart failure without clinical symptoms or objective evidence of underlying ischemic disease , on stable doses of ACE inhibitors ( 99 % ) , digitalis ( 99 % ) , and diuretics ( 99 % ) , to placebo ( n = 827 ) or amlodipine ( n = 827 ) and followed them for a mean of 33 months .
There was no statistically significant difference between amlodipine and placebo in the primary endpoint of all - cause mortality ( 95 % confidence limits from 8 % reduction to 29 % increase on amlodipine ) .
With amlodipine there were more reports of pulmonary edema .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 5 mg Tablets Amlodipine besylate tablets , USP 5 mg ( amlodipine besylate equivalent to 5 mg of amlodipine per tablet ) are white to off white , round , flat - faced , beveled edge tablets ' 210 ' debossed on one side and plain on the other side and supplied as follows : NDC 70934 - 075 - 30 Bottle of 30 NDC 70934 - 075 - 90 Bottle of 90 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) , and dispense in tight , light resistant container ( USP ) .
Manufactured in India by : ALKEM LABORATORIES LTD .
H . O . : ALKEM HOUSE , Senapati Bapat marg , Lower Parel , Mumbai - 400 013 .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised Date : December , 2018 PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT AMLODIPINE BESYLATE TABLETS , USP 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg Read this information carefully before you start taking amlodipine besylate tablets , USP and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions about amlodipine besylate tablets , USP , ask your doctor .
Your doctor will know if amlodipine besylate tablets , USP is right for you .
What is amlodipine besylate ?
Amlodipine besylate is a type of medicine known as a calcium channel blocker ( CCB ) .
It is used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) and a type of chest pain called angina .
It can be used by itself or with other medicines to treat these conditions .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension ) High blood pressure comes from blood pushing too hard against your blood vessels .
Amlodipine besylate relaxes your blood vessels , which lets your blood flow more easily and helps lower your blood pressure .
Drugs that lower blood pressure lower your risk of having a stroke or heart attack .
Angina Angina is a pain or discomfort that keeps coming back when part of your heart does not get enough blood .
Angina feels like a pressing or squeezing pain , usually in your chest under the breastbone .
Sometimes you can feel it in your shoulders , arms , neck , jaws , or back .
Amlodipine besylate can relieve this pain .
Who should not use amlodipine besylate ?
Do not use amlodipine besylate if you are allergic to amlodipine ( the active ingredient in amlodipine besylate tablets ) , or to the inactive ingredients .
Your doctor or pharmacist can give you a list of these ingredients .
What should I tell my doctor before taking amlodipine besylate ?
Tell your doctor about any prescription and non - prescription medicines you are taking , including natural or herbal remedies .
Tell your doctor if you : • ever had heart disease • ever had liver problems • are pregnant , or plan to become pregnant .
Your doctor will decide if amlodipine besylate is the best treatment for you .
• are breast - feeding .
Amlodipine passes into your milk .
How should I take amlodipine besylate tablets , USP ?
• Take amlodipine besylate tablets , USP once a day , with or without food .
• It may be easier to take your dose if you do it at the same time every day , such as with breakfast or dinner , or at bedtime .
Do not take more than one dose of amlodipine besylate at a time .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
Do not take amlodipine besylate if it has been more than 12 hours since you missed your last dose .
Wait and take the next dose at your regular time .
• Other medicines : You can use nitroglycerin and amlodipine besylate together .
If you take nitroglycerin for angina , do n't stop taking it while you are taking amlodipine besylate .
• While you are taking amlodipine besylate , do not stop taking your other prescription medicines , including any other blood pressure medicines , without talking to your doctor .
• If you took too much amlodipine besylate , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking amlodipine besylate ?
• Do not start any new prescription or non - prescription medicines or supplements , unless you check with your doctor first .
What are the possible side effects of amlodipine besylate ?
Amlodipine besylate may cause the following side effects .
Most side effects are mild or moderate : • swelling of your legs or ankles • tiredness , extreme sleepiness • stomach pain , nausea • dizziness • flushing ( hot or warm feeling in your face ) • arrhythmia ( irregular heartbeat ) • heart palpitations ( very fast heartbeat ) • muscle rigidity , tremor and / or abnormal muscle movement It is rare , but when you first start taking amlodipine besylate or increase your dose , you may have a heart attack or your angina may get worse .
If that happens , call your doctor right away or go directly to a hospital emergency room .
Tell your doctor if you are concerned about any side effects you experience .
These are not all the possible side effects of amlodipine besylate .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store amlodipine besylate tablets , USP ?
Keep amlodipine besylate tablets , USP away from children .
Store amlodipine besylate tablets , USP at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
Keep amlodipine besylate tablets , USP out of the light .
Do not store in the bathroom .
Keep amlodipine besylate tablets , USP in a dry place .
General advice about amlodipine besylate tablets , USP Sometimes , doctors will prescribe a medicine for a condition that is not written in the patient information leaflets .
Only use amlodipine besylate tablets , USP the way your doctor told you to .
Do not give amlodipine besylate tablets , USP to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about amlodipine besylate tablets , USP .
Manufactured in India by : ALKEM LABORATORIES LTD .
H . O . : ALKEM HOUSE , Senapati Bapat marg , Lower Parel , Mumbai - 400 013 .
Distributed by : Ascend Laboratories , LLC Parsippany , NJ 07054 Revised Date : October , 2017 PT1453 - 06 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Tablets NDC : 70934 - 075 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
