DESCRIPTION Acarbose is an oral alpha - glucosidase inhibitor for use in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Acarbose is an oligosaccharide which is obtained from fermentation processes of a microorganism , Actinoplanes utahensis , and is chemically known as O - 4 , 6 - dideoxy - 4 - [ [ ( 1 S , 4 R , 5 S , 6 S ) - 4 , 5 , 6 - trihydroxy - 3 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 2 - cyclohexen - 1 - yl ] amino ] - α - D - glucopyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) - O - α - D - glucopyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) - D - glucose .
It is a white to off - white powder with a molecular weight of 645 . 6 .
Acarbose is soluble in water and has a pKa of 5 . 1 .
Its empirical formula is C25H43NO18 and its chemical structure is as follows : • [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acarbose tablets are available as 25 mg , 50 mg and 100 mg tablets for oral use .
The inactive ingredients are starch , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , and colloidal silicon dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Acarbose is a complex oligosaccharide that delays the digestion of ingested carbohydrates , thereby resulting in a smaller rise in blood glucose concentration following meals .
As a consequence of plasma glucose reduction , acarbose reduces levels of glycosylated hemoglobin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Systemic non - enzymatic protein glycosylation , as reflected by levels of glycosylated hemoglobin , is a function of average blood glucose concentration over time .
Mechanism of Action In contrast to sulfonylureas , acarbose does not enhance insulin secretion .
The antihyperglycemic action of acarbose results from a competitive , reversible inhibition of pancreatic alpha - amylase and membrane - bound intestinal alpha - glucoside hydrolase enzymes .
Pancreatic alpha - amylase hydrolyzes complex starches to oligosaccharides in the lumen of the small intestine , while the membrane - bound intestinal alpha - glucosidases hydrolyze oligosaccharides , trisaccharides , and disaccharides to glucose and other monosaccharides in the brush border of the small intestine .
In diabetic patients , this enzyme inhibition results in a delayed glucose absorption and a lowering of postprandial hyperglycemia .
Because its mechanism of action is different , the effect of acarbose to enhance glycemic control is additive to that of sulfonylureas , insulin or metformin when used in combination .
In addition , acarbose diminishes the insulinotropic and weight - increasing effects of sulfonylureas .
Acarbose has no inhibitory activity against lactase and consequently would not be expected to induce lactose intolerance .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption In a study of 6 healthy men , less than 2 % of an oral dose of acarbose was absorbed as active drug , while approximately 35 % of total radioactivity from a 14 C - labeled oral dose was absorbed .
An average of 51 % of an oral dose was excreted in the feces as unabsorbed drug - related radioactivity within 96 hours of ingestion .
Because acarbose acts locally within the gastrointestinal tract , this low systemic bioavailability of parent compound is therapeutically desired .
Following oral dosing of healthy volunteers with 14 C - labeled acarbose , peak plasma concentrations of radioactivity were attained 14 – 24 hours after dosing , while peak plasma concentrations of active drug were attained at approximately 1 hour .
The delayed absorption of acarbose - related radioactivity reflects the absorption of metabolites that may be formed by either intestinal bacteria or intestinal enzymatic hydrolysis .
Metabolism Acarbose is metabolized exclusively within the gastrointestinal tract , principally by intestinal bacteria , but also by digestive enzymes .
A fraction of these metabolites ( approximately 34 % of the dose ) was absorbed and subsequently excreted in the urine .
At least 13 metabolites have been separated chromatographically from urine specimens .
The major metabolites have been identified as 4 - methylpyrogallol derivatives ( that is , sulfate , methyl , and glucuronide conjugates ) .
One metabolite ( formed by cleavage of a glucose molecule from acarbose ) also has alpha - glucosidase inhibitory activity .
This metabolite , together with the parent compound , recovered from the urine , accounts for less than 2 % of the total administered dose .
Excretion The fraction of acarbose that is absorbed as intact drug is almost completely excreted by the kidneys .
When acarbose was given intravenously , 89 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as active drug within 48 hours .
In contrast , less than 2 % of an oral dose was recovered in the urine as active ( that is , parent compound and active metabolite ) drug .
This is consistent with the low bioavailability of the parent drug .
The plasma elimination half - life of acarbose activity is approximately 2 hours in healthy volunteers .
Consequently , drug accumulation does not occur with three times a day ( t . i . d . ) oral dosing .
Special Populations The mean steady - state area under the curve ( AUC ) and maximum concentrations of acarbose were approximately 1 . 5 times higher in elderly compared to young volunteers ; however , these differences were not statistically significant .
Patients with severe renal impairment ( Clcr < 25 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) attained about 5 times higher peak plasma concentrations of acarbose and 6 times larger AUCs than volunteers with normal renal function .
No studies of acarbose pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
In U . S . controlled clinical studies of acarbose in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , reductions in glycosylated hemoglobin levels were similar in Caucasians ( n = 478 ) and African - Americans ( n = 167 ) , with a trend toward a better response in Latinos ( n = 132 ) .
Drug - Drug Interactions Studies in healthy volunteers have shown that Acarbose has no effect on either the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of nifedipine , propranolol , or ranitidine .
acarbose did not interfere with the absorption or disposition of the sulfonylurea glyburide in diabetic patients .
Acarbose may affect digoxin bioavailability and may require dose adjustment of digoxin by 16 % ( 90 % confidence interval : 8 - 23 % ) , decrease mean Cmax of digoxin by 26 % ( 90 % confidence interval : 16 – 34 % ) and decreases mean trough concentrations of digoxin by 9 % ( 90 % confidence limit : 19 % decrease to 2 % increase ) .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
The amount of metformin absorbed while taking acarbose was bioequivalent to the amount absorbed when taking placebo , as indicated by the plasma AUC values .
However , the peak plasma level of metformin was reduced by approximately 20 % when taking Acarbose due to a slight delay in the absorption of metformin .
There is little if any clinically significant interaction between acarbose and metformin .
CLINICAL TRIALS Clinical Experience from Dose Finding Studies in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients on Dietary Treatment Only : Results from six controlled , fixed - dose , monotherapy studies of acarbose in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus , involving 769 acarbose - treated patients , were combined and a weighted average of the difference from placebo in the mean change from baseline in glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) was calculated for each dose level as presented below : Table Mean Placebo - Subtracted Change in HbA1c in Fixed - Dose Monotherapy StudiesDose of acarbose [ 1 ] * N Change in HbA1c % • p - Value • 25 mg t . i . d . 110 - 0 . 44 • 0 . 0307 • 50 mg t . i . d . 131 - 0 . 77 • 0 . 0001 • 100 mg t . i . d . 244 - 0 . 74 • 0 . 0001 • 200 mg t . i . d . [ 2 ] 231 - 0 . 86 • 0 . 0001 • 300 mg t . i . d . null 53 - 1 . 00 • 0 . 0001 [ 1 ] Acarbose was statistically significantly different from placebo at all doses .
Although there were no statistically significant differences among the mean results for doses ranging from 50 to 300 mg t . i . d . , some patients may derive benefit by increasing the dosage from 50 to 100 mg t . i . d . [ 2 ] Although studies utilized a maximum dose of 200 or 300 mg t . i . d . , the maximum recommended dose for patients ≤ 60 kg is 50 mg t . i . d . ; the maximum recommended dose for patients > 60 kg is 100 mg t . i . d . Results from these six fixed - dose , monotherapy studies were also combined to derive a weighted average of the difference from placebo in mean change from baseline for one - hour postprandial plasma glucose levels as shown in the following figure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Acarbose was statistically significantly different from placebo at all doses with respect to effect on one - hour postprandial plasma glucose .
** The 300 mg t . i . d . acarbose regimen was superior to lower doses , but there were no statistically significant differences from 50 to 200 mg t . i . d . Clinical Experience in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients on Monotherapy , or in Combination with Sulfonylureas , Metformin or Insulin : acarbose was studied as monotherapy and as combination therapy to sulfonylurea , metformin , or insulin treatment .
The treatment effects on HbA1c levels and one - hour postprandial glucose levels are summarized for four placebo - controlled , double - blind , randomized studies conducted in the United States in Tables 2 and 3 , respectively .
The placebo - subtracted treatment differences , which are summarized below , were statistically significant for both variables in all of these studies .
Study 1 ( n = 109 ) involved patients on background treatment with diet only .
The mean effect of the addition of acarbose to diet therapy was a change in HbA1c of - 0 . 78 % , and an improvement of one - hour postprandial glucose of - 74 . 4 mg / dL .
In Study 2 ( n = 137 ) , the mean effect of the addition of acarbose to maximum sulfonylurea therapy was a change in HbA1c of - 0 . 54 % , and an improvement of one - hour postprandial glucose of - 33 . 5 mg / dL .
In Study 3 ( n = 147 ) , the mean effect of the addition of acarbose to maximum metformin therapy was a change in HbA1c of - 0 . 65 % , and an improvement of one - hour postprandial glucose of - 34 . 3 mg / dL .
Study 4 ( n = 145 ) demonstrated that acarbose added to patients on background treatment with insulin resulted in a mean change in HbA1c of - 0 . 69 % , and an improvement of one - hour postprandial glucose of - 36 . 0 mg / dL .
A one year study of acarbose as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea , metformin or insulin treatment was conducted in Canada in which 316 patients were included in the primary efficacy analysis ( Figure 2 ) .
In the diet , sulfonylurea and metformin groups , the mean decrease in HbA1c produced by the addition of acarbose was statistically significant at six months , and this effect was persistent at one year .
In the acarbose - treated patients on insulin , there was a statistically significant reduction in HbA1c at six months , and a trend for a reduction at one year .
Table : Effect of Acarbose on HbA1c HbA1c ( % ) [ 1 ] Study • Treatment Mean Mean change Treatment p - Value Baseline from baseline [ 2 ] Difference 1 • Placebo Plus Diet 8 . 67 + 0 . 33 • — — • acarbose 100 mg t . i . d . 8 . 69 - 0 . 45 • - 0 . 78 0 . 0001 • Plus Diet 2 • Placebo Plus SFU [ 3 ] 9 . 56 + 0 . 24 • — — • acarbose 50 – 300 [ 4 ] mg t . i . d . 9 . 64 - 0 . 30 • - 0 . 54 0 . 0096 • Plus SFUc 3 • Placebo Plus Metformin [ 5 ] 8 . 17 + 0 . 08 g • — — • acarbose 50 – 100 mg t . i . d . 8 . 46 - 0 . 57 g • - 0 . 65 0 . 0001 • Plus Metformin [ 6 ] 4 • Placebo Plus Insulin [ 7 ] 8 . 69 + 0 . 11 • — — • acarbose 50 – 100 mg t . i . d . 8 . 77 - 0 . 58 • - 0 . 69 0 . 0001 • Plus Insulinf [ 1 ] HbA1c Normal Range : 4 – 6 % [ 2 ] After four months treatment in Study 1 , and six months in Studies 2 , 3 , and 4 [ 3 ] SFU , sulfonylurea , maximum dose [ 4 ] Although studies utilized a maximum dose of up to 300 mg t . i . d . , the maximum recommended dose for patients ≤ 60 kg is 50 mg t . i . d . ; the maximum recommended dose for patients > 60 kg is 100 mg t . i . d . [ 5 ] Metformin dosed at 2000 mg / day or 2500 mg / day [ 6 ] Mean dose of insulin 61 U / day [ 7 ] Results are adjusted to a common baseline of 8 . 33 % Table : Effect of Acarbose on Postprandial Glucose One - Hour Postprandial Glucose ( mg / dL ) Study • Treatment Mean Mean change Treatment p - Value Baseline from baseline [ 1 ] Difference 1 • Placebo Plus Diet 297 . 1 + 31 . 8 — — • acarbose 100 mg t . i . d . 299 . 1 - 42 . 6 - 74 . 4 0 . 0001 • Plus Diet 2 • Placebo Plus SFU [ 2 ] 308 . 6 + 6 . 2 — — • acarbose 50 – 300 [ 3 ] mg t . i . d . 311 . 1 - 27 . 3 - 33 . 5 0 . 0017 • Plus SFU null 3 • Placebo Plus Metformin [ 4 ] 263 . 9 + 3 . 3 [ 5 ] — — • acarbose 50 – 100 mg t . i . d . 283 . 0 - 31 . 0 null - 34 . 3 0 . 0001 • Plus Metformin null 4 • Placebo Plus Insulin [ 6 ] 279 . 2 + 8 . 0 — — • acarbose 50 – 100 mg t . i . d . 277 . 8 - 28 . 0 - 36 . 0 0 . 0178 • Plus Insulin null [ 1 ] After four months treatment in Study 1 , and six months in Studies 2 , 3 , and 4 [ 2 ] SFU , sulfonylurea , maximum dose [ 3 ] Although studies utilized a maximum dose of up to 300 mg t . i . d . , the maximum recommended dose for patients ≤ 60 kg is 50 mg t . i . d . ; the maximum recommended dose for patients > 60 kg is 100 mg t . i . d . [ 4 ] Metformin dosed at 2000 mg / day or 2500 mg / day [ 5 ] Results are adjusted to a common baseline of 273 mg / dL [ 6 ] Mean dose of insulin 61 U / day Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Effects of Acarbose ( ■ ) and Placebo ( ● ) on mean change in HbA1c levels from baseline throughout a one - year study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus when used in combination with : ( A ) diet alone ; ( B ) sulfonylurea ; ( C ) metformin ; or ( D ) insulin .
Treatment differences at 6 and 12 months were tested : * p < 0 . 01 ; # p = 0 . 077 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Acarbose is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Acarbose is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
Acarbose is contraindicated in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis or cirrhosis .
Acarbose is also contraindicated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease , colonic ulceration , partial intestinal obstruction or in patients predisposed to intestinal obstruction .
In addition , acarbose is contraindicated in patients who have chronic intestinal diseases associated with marked disorders of digestion or absorption and in patients who have conditions that may deteriorate as a result of increased gas formation in the intestine .
PRECAUTIONS General Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with acarbose or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Hypoglycemia Because of its mechanism of action , acarbose when administered alone should not cause hypoglycemia in the fasted or postprandial state .
Sulfonylurea agents or insulin may cause hypoglycemia .
Because acarbose given in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin will cause a further lowering of blood glucose , it may increase the potential for hypoglycemia .
Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , and no increased incidence of hypoglycemia was observed in patients when acarbose was added to metformin therapy .
Oral glucose ( dextrose ) , whose absorption is not inhibited by acarbose , should be used instead of sucrose ( cane sugar ) in the treatment of mild to moderate hypoglycemia .
Sucrose , whose hydrolysis to glucose and fructose is inhibited by acarbose , is unsuitable for the rapid correction of hypoglycemia .
Severe hypoglycemia may require the use of either intravenous glucose infusion or glucagon injection .
Elevated Serum Transaminase Levels In long - term studies ( up to 12 months , and including acarbose doses up to 300 mg t . i . d . ) conducted in the United States , treatment - emergent elevations of serum transaminases ( AST and / or ALT ) above the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) , greater than 1 . 8 times the ULN , and greater than 3 times the ULN occurred in 14 % , 6 % , and 3 % , respectively , of acarbose - treated patients as compared to 7 % , 2 % , and 1 % , respectively , of placebo - treated patients .
Although these differences between treatments were statistically significant , these elevations were asymptomatic , reversible , more common in females , and , in general , were not associated with other evidence of liver dysfunction .
In addition , these serum transaminase elevations appeared to be dose related .
In US studies including acarbose doses up to the maximum approved dose of 100 mg t . i . d . , treatment - emergent elevations of AST and / or ALT at any level of severity were similar between acarbose - treated patients and placebo - treated patients ( p ≥ 0 . 496 ) .
In approximately 3 million patient - years of international postmarketing experience with acarbose , 62 cases of serum transaminase elevations > 500 IU / L ( 29 of which were associated with jaundice ) have been reported .
Forty - one of these 62 patients received treatment with 100 mg t . i . d . or greater and 33 of 45 patients for whom weight was reported weighed < 60 kg .
In the 59 cases where follow - up was recorded , hepatic abnormalities improved or resolved upon discontinuation of acarbose in 55 and were unchanged in two .
Cases of fulminant hepatitis with fatal outcome have been reported ; the relationship to acarbose is unclear .
Loss of Control of Blood Glucose When diabetic patients are exposed to stress such as fever , trauma , infection , or surgery , a temporary loss of control of blood glucose may occur .
At such times , temporary insulin therapy may be necessary .
Information for Patients Patients should be told to take acarbose orally three times a day at the start ( with the first bite ) of each main meal .
It is important that patients continue to adhere to dietary instructions , a regular exercise program , and regular testing of urine and / or blood glucose .
Acarbose itself does not cause hypoglycemia even when administered to patients in the fasted state .
Sulfonylurea drugs and insulin , however , can lower blood sugar levels enough to cause symptoms or sometimes life - threatening hypoglycemia .
Because acarbose given in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin will cause a further lowering of blood sugar , it may increase the hypoglycemic potential of these agents .
Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use , and no increased incidence of hypoglycemia was observed in patients when acarbose was added to metformin therapy .
The risk of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be well understood by patients and responsible family members .
Because acarbose prevents the breakdown of table sugar , patients should have a readily available source of glucose ( dextrose , D - glucose ) to treat symptoms of low blood sugar when taking acarbose in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin .
If side effects occur with acarbose , they usually develop during the first few weeks of therapy .
They are most commonly mild - to - moderate gastrointestinal effects , such as flatulence , diarrhea , or abdominal discomfort , and generally diminish in frequency and intensity with time .
Laboratory Tests Therapeutic response to acarbose should be monitored by periodic blood glucose tests .
Measurement of glycosylated hemoglobin levels is recommended for the monitoring of long - term glycemic control .
Acarbose , particularly at doses in excess of 50 mg t . i . d . , may give rise to elevations of serum transaminases and , in rare instances , hyperbilirubinemia .
It is recommended that serum transaminase levels be checked every 3 months during the first year of treatment with acarbose and periodically thereafter .
If elevated transaminases are observed , a reduction in dosage or withdrawal of therapy may be indicated , particularly if the elevations persist .
Monitoring glycemic control with 1 , 5 - AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1 , 5 - AG are unreliable in assessing glycemic control in patients taking acarbose .
Use alternative methods to monitor for glycemic control .
Renal Impairment Plasma concentrations of acarbose in renally impaired volunteers were proportionally increased relative to the degree of renal dysfunction .
Long - term clinical trials in diabetic patients with significant renal dysfunction ( serum creatinine > 2 . 0 mg / dL ) have not been conducted .
Therefore , treatment of these patients with acarbose is not recommended .
Drug Interactions Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of blood glucose control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel - blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving acarbose , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from patients receiving acarbose in combination with sulfonylureas or insulin , patients should be observed closely for any evidence of hypoglycemia .
Patients Receiving Sulfonylureas or Insulin : Sulfonylurea agents or insulin may cause hypoglycemia .
Acarbose given in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin may cause a further lowering of blood glucose and may increase the potential for hypoglycemia .
If hypoglycemia occurs , appropriate adjustments in the dosage of these agents should be made .
Very rarely , individual cases of hypoglycemic shock have been reported in patients receiving acarbose therapy in combination with sulfonylureas and / or insulin .
Intestinal adsorbents ( for example , charcoal ) and digestive enzyme preparations containing carbohydrate - splitting enzymes ( for example , amylase , pancreatin ) may reduce the effect of acarbose and should not be taken concomitantly .
Acarbose has been shown to change the bioavailability of digoxin when they are coadministered , which may require digoxin dose adjustment .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - Drug Interactions . )
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Eight carcinogenicity studies were conducted with acarbose .
Six studies were performed in rats ( two strains , Sprague - Dawley and Wistar ) and two studies were performed in hamsters .
In the first rat study , Sprague - Dawley rats received acarbose in feed at high doses ( up to approximately 500 mg / kg body weight ) for 104 weeks .
Acarbose treatment resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of renal tumors ( adenomas and adenocarcinomas ) and benign Leydig cell tumors .
This study was repeated with a similar outcome .
Further studies were performed to separate direct carcinogenic effects of acarbose from indirect effects resulting from the carbohydrate malnutrition induced by the large doses of acarbose employed in the studies .
In one study using Sprague - Dawley rats , acarbose was mixed with feed but carbohydrate deprivation was prevented by the addition of glucose to the diet .
In a 26 - month study of Sprague - Dawley rats , acarbose was administered by daily postprandial gavage so as to avoid the pharmacologic effects of the drug .
In both of these studies , the increased incidence of renal tumors found in the original studies did not occur .
Acarbose was also given in food and by postprandial gavage in two separate studies in Wistar rats .
No increased incidence of renal tumors was found in either of these Wistar rat studies .
In two feeding studies of hamsters , with and without glucose supplementation , there was also no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Acarbose did not induce any DNA damage in vitro in the CHO chromosomal aberration assay , bacterial mutagenesis ( Ames ) assay , or a DNA binding assay .
In vivo , no DNA damage was detected in the dominant lethal test in male mice , or the mouse micronucleus test .
Fertility studies conducted in rats after oral administration produced no untoward effect on fertility or on the overall capability to reproduce .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B .
The safety of acarbose in pregnant women has not been established .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 480 mg / kg ( corresponding to 9 times the exposure in humans , based on drug blood levels ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to acarbose .
In rabbits , reduced maternal body weight gain , probably the result of the pharmacodynamic activity of high doses of acarbose in the intestines , may have been responsible for a slight increase in the number of embryonic losses .
However , rabbits given 160 mg / kg acarbose ( corresponding to 10 times the dose in man , based on body surface area ) showed no evidence of embryotoxicity and there was no evidence of teratogenicity at a dose 32 times the dose in man ( based on body surface area ) .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies of acarbose in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Because current information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital anomalies as well as increased neonatal morbidity and mortality , most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Nursing Mothers A small amount of radioactivity has been found in the milk of lactating rats after administration of radiolabeled acarbose .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , acarbose should not be administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of acarbose in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects in clinical studies of acarbose in the United States , 27 % were 65 and over , while 4 % were 75 and over .
No overall differences in safety and effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects .
The mean steady - state area under the curve ( AUC ) and maximum concentrations of acarbose were approximately 1 . 5 times higher in elderly compared to young volunteers ; however , these differences were not statistically significant .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Digestive Tract : Gastrointestinal symptoms are the most common reactions to acarbose .
In U . S . placebo - controlled trials , the incidences of abdominal pain , diarrhea , and flatulence were 19 % , 31 % , and 74 % respectively in 1255 patients treated with acarbose 50 – 300 mg t . i . d . , whereas the corresponding incidences were 9 % , 12 % , and 29 % in 999 placebo - treated patients .
In a one - year safety study , during which patients kept diaries of gastrointestinal symptoms , abdominal pain and diarrhea tended to return to pretreatment levels over time , and the frequency and intensity of flatulence tended to abate with time .
The increased gastrointestinal tract symptoms in patients treated with acarbose are a manifestation of the mechanism of action of acarbose and are related to the presence of undigested carbohydrate in the lower GI tract .
If the prescribed diet is not observed , the intestinal side effects may be intensified .
If strongly distressing symptoms develop in spite of adherence to the diabetic diet prescribed , the doctor must be consulted and the dose temporarily or permanently reduced .
Elevated Serum Transaminase Levels : See PRECAUTIONS .
Other Abnormal Laboratory Findings : Small reductions in hematocrit occurred more often in acarbose - treated patients than in placebo - treated patients but were not associated with reductions in hemoglobin .
Low serum calcium and low plasma vitamin B6 levels were associated with acarbose therapy but are thought to be either spurious or of no clinical significance .
Postmarketing Adverse Event Reports : Additional adverse events reported from worldwide postmarketing experience include fulminant hepatitis with fatal outcome , hypersensitive skin reactions ( for example rash , erythema , exanthema and uticaria ) , edema , ileus / subileus , jaundice and / or hepatitis and associated liver damage , thrombocytopenia , and pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pneumatosis Cystoides Intestinalis There have been rare postmarketing reports of pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis associated with the use of alpha - glucosidase inhibitors , including acarbose .
Pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis may present with symptoms of diarrhea , mucus discharge , rectal bleeding , and constipation .
Complications may include pneumoperitoneum , volvulus , intestinal obstruction , intussusception , intestinal hemorrhage , and intestinal perforation .
If pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis is suspected , discontinue acarbose and perform the appropriate diagnostic imaging OVERDOSAGE Unlike sulfonylureas or insulin , an overdose of acarbose will not result in hypoglycemia .
An overdose may result in transient increases in flatulence , diarrhea , and abdominal discomfort which shortly subside .
In cases of overdosage the patient should not be given drinks or meals containing carbohydrates ( polysaccharides , oligosaccharides and disaccharides ) for the next 4 – 6 hours .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of diabetes mellitus with acarbose or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of acarbose must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance while not exceeding the maximum recommended dose of 100 mg t . i . d . acarbose should be taken three times daily at the start ( with the first bite ) of each main meal .
Acarbose should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation as described below , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
If the prescribed diet is not observed , the intestinal side effects may be intensified .
If strongly distressing symptoms develop in spite of adherence to the diabetic diet prescribed , the doctor must be consulted and the dose temporarily or permanently reduced .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see below ) , one - hour postprandial plasma glucose may be used to determine the therapeutic response to acarbose and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately three months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both postprandial plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of acarbose , either as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylureas , insulin or metformin .
Initial Dosage The recommended starting dosage of acarbose is 25 mg given orally three times daily at the start ( with the first bite ) of each main meal .
However , some patients may benefit from more gradual dose titration to minimize gastrointestinal side effects .
This may be achieved by initiating treatment at 25 mg once per day and subsequently increasing the frequency of administration to achieve 25 mg t . i . d . Maintenance Dosage Once a 25 mg t . i . d . dosage regimen is reached , dosage of acarbose should be adjusted at 4 – 8 week intervals based on one - hour postprandial glucose or glycosylated hemoglobin levels , and on tolerance .
The dosage can be increased from 25 mg t . i . d . to 50 mg t . i . d .
Some patients may benefit from further increasing the dosage to 100 mg t . i . d .
The maintenance dose ranges from 50 mg t . i . d . to 100 mg t . i . d . However , since patients with low body weight may be at increased risk for elevated serum transaminases , only patients with body weight > 60 kg should be considered for dose titration above 50 mg t . i . d . ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
If no further reduction in postprandial glucose or glycosylated hemoglobin levels is observed with titration to 100 mg t . i . d . , consideration should be given to lowering the dose .
Once an effective and tolerated dosage is established , it should be maintained .
Maximum Dosage The maximum recommended dose for patients ≤ 60 kg is 50 mg t . i . d .
The maximum recommended dose for patients > 60 kg is 100 mg t . i . d . Patients Receiving Sulfonylureas or Insulin Sulfonylurea agents or insulin may cause hypoglycemia .
Acarbose given in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin will cause a further lowering of blood glucose and may increase the potential for hypoglycemia .
If hypoglycemia occurs , appropriate adjustments in the dosage of these agents should be made .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 4116 NDC : 50090 - 4116 - 0 30 TABLET in a BOTTLE Storage Do not store above 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Protect from moisture .
Keep container tightly closed .
Manufactured for : Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Whippany , NJ 07981 Manufactured in Germany Distributed by : Alvogen , Inc .
Pine Brook , NJ 07058 acarbose [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
