Drug Facts Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % , Homosalate 15 % , Octisalate 5 % , Octocrylene 7 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures , ( see Directions ) decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
• do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ° F . Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • shake well before use • hold container 4 to 6 inches from the skin to apply • spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure • do not spray directly into face .
Spray on hands then apply to face .
• do not apply in windy conditions • use in wellventilated area .
reapply : after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses Other information protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients alcohol denat .
( 54 % ) , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , dicaprylyl carbonate , PPG - 5 - ceteth - 20 , fragrance , tocopherol Questions ?
1 - 877 - 978 - 6286 Package Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
