Active Ingredient Lidocaine 4 . 0 % Purpose Topical Anesthetic Use Temporarily relieves minor pain .
Warnings For External Use Only Do not Use • More than one patch on your body at a time • On cut , irritated or swollen skin • On puncture wounds • For more than one week without consulting a doctor • If you are allergic to any active or inactive ingredients • If pouch is damaged or opened .
When using this product • Use only as directed • Read and follow all directions and warnings on this carton • Do not allow contact with the eyes • Do not use at the same time as other topical anesthetics • Do not bandage tightly or apply local heat ( such as heating pads ) to the area of use • Do not microwave • Dispose of used patch in manner that always keeps product away from children and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects is a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • Condition worsen • Redness is present • Irritation develops • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • You experience signs of skin injury , such as pain , swelling , or blistering where the product was applied .
Keep out of reach of children and pets If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away 800 - 222 - 1222 If pregnant or breastfeeding ask a health professional before use Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area .
Carefully remove backing from patch .
Apply sticky side of patch to affected area .
Use one patch for up to 24 hours .
Discard patch after single use .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a physician .
Other Information Store in a clean , dry place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture Inactive Ingredients aluminum glycinate , carboxymethylcellulose sodium , glycerin , iodopropynyl butylcarbamate , kaolin , petrolatum , phenoxyethanol , polyacrylic acid , polysorbate 80 , povidone , propylene glycol , sodium polyacrylate , tartaric acid , titanium dioxide , water , 3 - ( 2 - ethylhexyloxy ) propane - 1 , 2 - diol Caring Mills Relief Patch with Lidocaine [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
