Drug Facts Hand Sanitizer Active ingredientAlcohol 62 % Hand Sanitizer Purpose Antiseptic Hand Sanitizer Use Hand sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Hand Sanitizer Warnings For exernal use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame .
Hand Sanitizer Do not use • In children less than 2 months of age • On open skin wounds Hand Sanitizer When using this product Keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Hand Sanitizer Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs , these may be signs of a serious condition .
Hand Sanitizer Keep out of the reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Hand Sanitizer Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Hand Sanitizer Inactive ingredients Aloe , glycerin , sterile distilled water , lemon fragrance Hand Sanitizer Other information • Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Hand Sanitizer sparoom ® ON THE GO HAND SANITIZER Made with Aloe and Essential Oil 0 . 50 fl oz ( 15 mL ) 2021 UNITREX ® LTD .
5060 Taylor Road Cleveland , Ohio 44128 Made in China Alcohol wipes Active ingredient Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Alcohol wipes Purpose Antiseptic Alcohol wipes Use Isopropyl alcohol antiseptic wipes to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Alcohol wipes Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat or flame .
Not suitable for delicate skin .
Alcohol wipes Do not use • In childrden less than 2 months of age • On open skin wounds Alcohol wipes When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Alcohol wipes Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Alcohol wipes Keep out of reach of chilldren .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Alcohol wipes Directions • Wipe surface of hands with wipe .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Alcohol wipes Inactive ingredients purified water USP , Lemon fragrance Alcohol wipes Questions ?
Toll free 833 - 729 - 4859 Alcohol wipes Other information • Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) • Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Alcohol wipes sparoom ® Lemon Scent • Made with Essential Oil SANITIZING ALCOHOL WIPES 10 PCS Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Distributed by Unitrex Ltd . / SpaRoom 5060 Taylor Rd , Cleveland , OH 44128 © 2021 Unitrex Made in China Hand Sanitizer [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol wipes [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Kit label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
