Purpose Acid reducer Use • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• if you have kidney disease , except under the advice and supervision of a doctor • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over three months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 10 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine 20 mg Other information • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture and light Inactive ingredients carnauba wax , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose ( monohydrrate ) , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 282 - 3000 DO NOT USE IF PRINTED FOIL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton , it contains important information .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
