For Dermatologic Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use Rx Only Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic obtained from Streptomyces noursei .
The molecular formula is C47H75NO17 , and the molecular weight is 926 . 13 .
Structural formula : [ structural formula ] Nystatin Cream USP is for dermatologic use .
Nystatin Cream USP for topical use , contains 100 , 000 USP nystatin units per gram .
Inactive ingredients : emulsifying wax , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , lactic acid , purified water , sodium hydroxide , and sorbic acid .
Pharmacokinetics Nystatin Cream USP is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing levels of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin .
Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
Nystatin Cream USP is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
Nystatin Cream USP is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
Nystatin Cream USP is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of its components .
General - Nystatin Cream USP should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
Information for Patients - Patients using this medication should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
The patient should be instructed to use this medication as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
This medication is not for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
2 .
Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
3 .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests - If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility - No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of Nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Category C - Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any Nystatin topical preparation .
It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin topical preparations should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers - It is not known whether Nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Geriatric Use - Clinical studies with nystatin cream did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using Nystatin Cream USP is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application ( see PRECAUTIONS - General ) .
Very moist lesions are best treated with nystatin topical dusting powder .
Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) : Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete .
Nystatin Cream USP ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) is a yellow cream available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 45802 - 059 - 35 ) 30 g tube ( NDC 45802 - 059 - 11 ) Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 • www . perrigo . com Rev . 07 - 15 : 1P600 RC JX [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
