Drug Facts - Eye Wash Active ingredient Purified Water 99 . 1 % Purpose Eyewash Use For cleansing the eye to help relieve irritation or burning by removing loose foreign material Warnings For external use only .
Do not use if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • to avoid contamination , do not touch tip of container to any surface • do not reuse • once opened , discard • obtain immediate medical treatment for all open wounds in or near the eyes Stop use and ask a doctor if • you experience : • eye pain • changes in vision • continued redness • irritation of the eye • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Flush the affected eye as needed , controlling the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle Other information • not for use as contact lens solution • use before expiration date marked on the bottle • store at room temperature , 5 ° to 35 ° C ( 41 ° to 95 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Benzalkonium chloride , sodium chloride Drug Facts - Antiseptic Towelettes Active Ingredient : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose : First Aid Antiseptic Use : For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur , consult a physician immediately .
Do not use : In the eyes , or over large areas of the body .
Directions : Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive ingredient : Purified water .
DRUG FACTS - Alcohol Cleansing Pads Active Ingredient : Isopropyl Alcohol , 70 % v / v Purpose : Antiseptic Use : For preparation of the skin before injection .
Warnings : For external use only .
Flammable - keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use : with electrocautery , in the eyes Stop use if irritation and redness develop .
If condition persists for more than 72 hours , consult your doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : Wipe injection site vigorously and discard .
Other information : Store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredient : Purified water .
Drug Facts - Antibiotic Application Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Bacitracin zinc ( bacitracin 400 units ) Neomycin sulfate ( neomycin 3 . 5 mg ) Polymyxin B sulfate ( polymyxin B 5 , 000 units ) Purpose First aid antibiotic Use • First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredient • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or punture wounds • animal bites • serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area .
• Apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily .
• May be covered with a sterile bandage .
Inactive ingredients Mineral oil , petrolatum , purified water Drug Facts - Burn Treatment Active ingredients Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 13 % Lidocaine hydrochloride 0 . 5 % Purpose First aid antiseptic Pain relieving cream Uses • First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
• For the temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , minor cuts , and scrapes Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • in large quantities • over raw surfaces or blistered areas • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or puncture wounds • animal bites • serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reah of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply a small amount of this product to affected area not more than 3 times daily • Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor • May be covered with a sterile bandage Other information Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients glycerin monostearate , glycerol , purified water Drug Facts - Hand Sanitizer Active ingredient Ethyl alcohol 62 % Purpose Antiseptic Uses • For handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin • Recommended for repeated use .
Warnings Flammable , keep away from fire or flame For external use only .
Do not use • in the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation and redness develop • condition persists for more than 72 hours Keep out of reach children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands thoroughly with product and allow to dry without wiping .
Other information Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Carbomer , propylene glycol , purified water , titanium dioxide Antiseptic Towelettes ( 49687 - 0016 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alcohol Cleansing Pads ( 49687 - 0012 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Antibiotic Application ( 49687 - 0013 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Burn Treatment ( 49687 - 0014 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hand Sanitizer ( 49687 - 0015 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Large ANSI First Aid Kit ( 49687 - 0021 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Eye Wash ( 49687 - 0010 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
