Contraindications , Nursing Mothers ( 4 ) Removed 3 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Karbinal ER is indicated for adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older for the symptomatic treatment of : • Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis • Vasomotor rhinitis • Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods • Mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema • Dermatographism • As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled • Amelioration of the severity of allergic reactions to blood or plasma Karbinal ER is indicated for adults and pediatric patients 2 years of age and older for the symptomatic treatment of : • Seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis ( 1 ) • Vasomotor rhinitis ( 1 ) • Allergic conjunctivitis due to inhalant allergens and foods ( 1 ) • Mild , uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema ( 1 ) • Dermatographism ( 1 ) • As therapy for anaphylactic reactions adjunctive to epinephrine and other standard measures after the acute manifestations have been controlled ( 1 ) • Amelioration of the severity of allergic reactions to blood or plasma ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adults and Adolescents 12 years of age and older ( 2 . 3 ) : 7 . 5 mL to 20 mL ( 6 to 16 mg ) every 12 hours Pediatric patients 2 - 11 years of age ( approximately 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / kg / day ) ( 2 . 4 ) : 2 to 3 years – 3 . 75 mL to 5 mL ( 3 to 4 mg ) every 12 hours 4 to 5 years – 3 . 75 mL to 10 mL ( 3 to 8 mg ) every 12 hours 6 to 11 years – 7 . 5 mL to 15 mL ( 6 to 12 mg ) every 12 hours 2 . 1 Overview The dosage of Karbinal ER should be individualized based on the severity of the condition and the response of the patient .
Start with lower doses and increase as needed and tolerated .
2 . 2 Administration Administer Karbinal ER by the oral route only .
Measure Karbinal ER with an accurate milliliter measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
A pharmacist can provide an appropriate measuring device and can provide instructions for measuring correct dose .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage for Adults and Adolescents 12 years of age and older : 7 . 5 mL to 20 mL ( 6 to 16 mg ) every 12 hours administered orally 2 . 4 Recommended Dosage for Pediatric Patients 2 to 11 years of age ( approximately 0 . 2 to 0 . 4 mg / kg / day ) : 2 to 3 years : 3 . 75 mL to 5 mL ( 3 to 4 mg ) every 12 hours administered orally 4 to 5 years : 3 . 75 mL to 10 mL ( 3 to 8 mg ) every 12 hours administered orally 6 to 11 years : 7 . 5 mL to 15 mL ( 6 to 12 mg ) every 12 hours administered orally 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Extended - release oral suspension : 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate per 5 mL Extended - release oral suspension : 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate per 5 mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Karbinal ER is contraindicated in : • children younger than 2 years of age because deaths have been reported in this age group ( see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • patients who are hypersensitive to carbinoxamine maleate or any of the inactive ingredients in Karbinal ER [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • patients who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Children younger than 2 years of age ( 4 ) • Patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the inactive ingredients ( 4 ) • Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Activities requiring mental alertness : Avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery .
( 5 . 2 ) • Anticholinergic actions : Use with caution in patients with increased intraocular pressure , narrow angle glaucoma , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , hypertension , stenosing peptic ulcer , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , bladder neck obstruction , pyloroduodenal obstruction .
( 5 . 3 ) • Contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause anaphylaxis including life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes in susceptible individuals .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Pediatric Mortality Deaths have been reported in children less than 2 years of age who were taking carbinoxamine - containing drug products ; therefore , Karbinal ER is contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age .
5 . 2 Somnolence and Impaired Mental Alertness Karbinal ER may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Advise patients to avoid engaging in hazardous tasks requiring mental alertness and motor coordination after ingestion of Karbinal ER .
Avoid concurrent use of Karbinal ER with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants because additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur .
5 . 3 Concomitant Medical Conditions Karbinal ER has anticholinergic ( atropine - like ) properties and , therefore , should be used with caution in patients with : increased intraocular pressure , narrow angle glaucoma , hyperthyroidism , cardiovascular disease , hypertension , stenosing peptic ulcer , symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy , bladder neck obstruction , or pyloroduodenal obstruction .
5 . 4 Allergic Reactions due to Sulfites , including Anaphylaxis Karbinal ER contains sodium metabisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions , including anaphylaxis and life - threatening or less severe asthmatic episodes , in susceptible individuals .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic individuals .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are descrived elsewhere in the labeling : • Somnolense and Impaired Mental Alertness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Allergic Reactions due to Sulfites , including Anaphylaxis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
The most frequent adverse reactions include : sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , epigastric distress , and thickening of bronchial secretions .
In clinical use , younger children and older adults may be particularly sensitive to adverse reactions [ see Pediatric Use ( 8 . 4 ) and Geriatric Use ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions , listed by body system , have been identified in case reports and during the use of carbinoxamine in observational studies .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Body as a Whole : Urticaria , drug rash , anaphylactic shock , photosensitivity , excessive perspiration , chills , dryness of mouth , nose and throat .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension , headache , palpitations , tachycardia , extrasystoles .
Central Nervous System : Fatigue , confusion , restlessness , excitation , nervousness , tremor , irritability , insomnia , euphoria , paresthesia , blurred vision , diplopia , vertigo , tinnitus , acute labyrinthitis , hysteria , neuritis , convulsions .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation .
Hematologic : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Laboratory : Increase in uric acid levels .
Respiratory : Tightness of chest and wheezing , nasal stuffiness .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency , difficult urination , urinary retention , early menses .
Most common adverse reactions are : sedation , sleepiness , dizziness , disturbed coordination , epigastric distress , and thickening of bronchial secretions .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Cerecor , Inc . , at 1 - 866 - 416 - 9637 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Do not use of Karbinal ER in patients who are taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , which prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects of antihistamines .
• Avoid use of Karbinal ER with alcohol and other CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) due to additive effects .
• Monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) : Prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects .
( 4 and 7 ) • Alcohol and CNS depressants ( hypnotics , sedatives , tranquilizers , etc . ) : Avoid concomitant use due to additive adverse effects .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Advise not to breastfeed .
( 8 . 2 ) • Contraindicated in children younger than 2 years of age .
( 4 and 8 . 4 ) • May cause sedation or excitation in young children .
( 8 . 4 ) • May cause dizziness , sedation , and hypotension in elderly patients .
Start elderly patients on lower doses and observe closely for confusion and over - sedation .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Published data over decades of use of antihistamines , including carbinoxamine , have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal out comes .
However , published dat a specifically evaluating the risk of carbinoxamine were not found .
Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with carbinoxamine maleate .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Based on the physical properties of carbinoxamine , it is likely that carbinoxamine is present in breastmilk .
There are published reports of drowsiness and irritability in infants exposed to antihistamines via breastmilk .
There are post - marketing reports of deaths in children under 2 years of age exposed to carbinoxamine by oral administration .
There are no available data on the effects on milk production .
It is not recommended to breastfeed during treatment wit h Karbinal ER [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] and use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Karbinal ER is contraindicated in pediatric patients younger than 2 years of age becuase deaths have been reported in this patient population who were taking carbinoxamine - containing drug products .
The safety and effectiveness of Karbinal ER in pediatric patients aged 2 years and older hve been established and I based on demonstration of bioequivalence to the immediate - release reference product [ see Clinical Phamacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Carbinoxamine may diminish mental alertness or produce sedation in children .
Paradoxical reactions with excitation are more likely in younger children .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Karbinal ER may cause dizziness , hypotension , confusion , or over - sedation in the elderly .
Start elderly patients on lower doses and observe closely .
10 .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with carbinoxamine may cause central nervous system depression or stimulation , hallucinations , convulsions , and death .
Atropine - like signs and symptoms – dry mouth ; fixed , dilated pupils ; flushing ; and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur .
The treatment of overdosage consists of discontinuation of Karbinal ER and institution of symptomatic and supportive therapy .
Vital signs ( including respiration , pulse , blood pressure , and temperature ) and EKG should be monitored .
Induction of vomiting is not recommended .
Activated charcoal should be given and gastric lavage should be considered after ingestion of a potentially life - threatening amount of drug .
In the presence of severe anticholinergic effects , physostigmine may be useful .
Vasopressors may be used to treat hypotension .
11 .
DESCRIPTION Each 5 mL of Karbinal ER Extended - release Oral Suspension contains carbinoxamine complexed with polistirex equivalent to 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate and the following inactive ingredients : citric acid anhydrous , strawberry - banana flavor , glycerin , high fructose corn syrup , methylparaben , modified food starch , polysorbate 80 , polyvinyl acetate , povidone , propylparaben , purified water , sodium metabisulfite , sodium polystyrene sulfonate , sucrose , triacetin , and xanthan gum .
Carbinoxamine maleate is freely soluble in water .
The chemical name is 2 - [ ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) - 2 - pyridinylmethoxy ] - N , N - dimethylethanamine ( Z ) - 2 - butenedioate ( 1 : 1 ) , which has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The drug - polistirex complex is formed with the active ingredient ( carbinoxamine maleate , USP ) and sodium polystyrene sulfonate , USP , which has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Carbinoxamine is an H 1 receptor antagonist ( antihistamine ) that exhibits anticholinergic ( drying ) and sedative properties .
Antihistamines compete with histamine for receptor sites on effector cells .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Karbinal ER after single - dose administration of 16 mg was bioequivalent to the reference carbinoxamine immediate - release oral solution after the administration of two doses of 8 mg six hours apart under fasting conditions .
The carbinoxamine mean ( SD ) peak plasma concentration ( C max ) was 28 . 7 ( 5 . 3 ) ng / mL at 6 . 7 hours after Karbinal ER administration .
The plasma half - life of carbinoxamine was 17 . 0 hours .
There was no effect of food on the pharmacokinetic parameters .
Karbinal ER after multiple - dose administration of 16 mg every 12 hours for 8 days was bioequivalent to the reference carbinoxamine immediate - release oral solution after multiple - dose administration of 8 mg every 6 hours .
The mean ( SD ) steady - state C max was 72 . 9 ( 24 . 4 ) ng / mL at 5 . 6 hours after Karbinal ER administration .
Carbinoxamine mean ( SD ) minimum plasma concentration at steady - state was 51 . 8 ( 20 . 3 ) ng / mL .
13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to determine the possible effects of carbinoxamine on carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and fertility .
14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness and safety of Karbinal ER is based on demonstration of bioequivalence to the immediate - release reference product [ see Pharmacokinetics ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Karbinal ER Oral Suspension contains 4 mg carbinoxamine maleate per 5 mL .
It is a light beige to tan viscous suspension with strawberry - banana flavor and is supplied as follows : NDC 23594 - 101 - 05 Bottles of 16 fl oz ( 480 mL ) NDC 23594 - 101 - 01 Bottles of 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) Physician Samples Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted from 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container with child - resistant closure .
17 .
Patient Counseling Information Administration Advise patients to measure Karbinal ER with an accurate milliliter measuring device .
A household teaspoon is not an accurate measuring device and could lead to overdosage .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Activities Requiring Mental Alertness Advise patients to use caution when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery .
Karbinal ER may produce marked drowsiness and impair the mental or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
MAOIs Advise patients to not use MAOIs while taking Karbinal ER .
MAOIs may prolong and intensify the anticholinergic ( drying ) effects [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Lactation Advise women that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Karbinal ER [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 and 8 . 4 ) ] .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 480 mL Bottle Label NDC 23594 - 101 - 05 Karbinal ™ ER ( carbinoxamine maleate ) Extended - release Oral Suspension 4 mg / 5 ml Shake Well Before Use Dose every 12 hours Dispense with an accurate milliliter measuring device Strawberry Banana Flavored Rx only 16 fl oz .
( 480 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured by : Tris Pharma , Inc .
Monmouth Junction , NJ 08852 Distributed by : Aytu Therapeutics Englewood , CO 80112 www . aytubio . com LB8594 Rev 01 06 / 2021 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Label NDC 23594 - 101 - 01 Karbinal ™ ER ( carbinoxamine maleate ) Extended - release Oral Suspension 4 mg / 5 ml Shake Well Before Use Dose every 12 hours Dispense with an accurate milliliter measuring device Strawberry Banana Flavored Physician Sample Not For Sale Rx only 1 fl oz .
( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
