Drug Facts - Antiseptic Towelettes Active Ingredient : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 13 % Purpose : First Aid Antiseptic Use : For Professional and Hospital use .
Helps prevent infection .
Antiseptic cleansing of face , hands and body without soap and water .
Warnings : For external use only .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
If unusual redness , swelling or other symptoms occur , consult a physician immediately .
Do not use : In the eyes , or over large areas of the body .
Directions : Tear open packet , unfold towelette and use to cleanse desired skin area .
Discard towelette appropriately after single use .
Inactive ingredient : Purified water .
Drug Facts - Antibiotic Application Active ingredients ( in each gram ) Bacitracin zinc ( bacitracin 400 units ) Neomycin sulfate ( neomycin 3 . 5 mg ) Polymyxin B sulfate ( polymyxin B 5 , 000 units ) Purpose First aid antibiotic Use • First aid to help prevent infection in minor cuts , scrapes , and burns .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the eyes • over large areas of the body • if you are allergic to any of the ingredient • longer than 1 week unless directed by a doctor .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • deep or punture wounds • animal bites • serious burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • the condition persists or gets worse • a rash or other allergic reaction develops .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Clean the affected area .
• Apply a small amount of this product ( an amount equal to the surface area of the tip of a finger ) on the area 1 to 3 times daily .
• May be covered with a sterile bandage .
Inactive ingredients Mineral oil , petrolatum , purified water Antiseptic Towelettes ( 49687 - 0016 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Antibiotic Application ( 49687 - 0013 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Refill 2 ( 49687 - 0016 - 0 ) Labeling : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
