Active ingredient Menthol 5 % w / w ......
Purpose : Topical analgesic Purpose Topical analgesic Uses Temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : • simple backache • arthrits • strains • bruises • sprains Warnings For external use only When using this prudocts : • use only as directed • avoid contact with eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use and ask a doctor if : • you experience pain , swelling or blistering of the skin • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If accidentally ingested , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Ask doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if : • you experience pain , swelling or blistering of the skin • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • arthritic pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
When using When using this prudocts : • use only as directed • avoid contact with eyes or on mucous membranes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Do not use • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin • do not apply to irritated skin or if excessive irritation develops • do not bandage tightly or use with heating pad or device Stop use Stop use and ask a doctor if : Burning disconfort or excessive skin irritation develops , condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days Pregnancy or breast feeding If pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children If accidentally ingested , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately Directions • adults and children 12 years of age and older : Clean and dry affected area , pop apart and partially peel back protective ﬁlm and apply exposed gel - patch to site of pain .
Carefully remove remaining ﬁlm while pressing the gel - patch to skin and leave in place for up to 8 hours .
Use on affected areas not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
• children under 12 years of age : consult a physician • wash hands after use with cool water Dosage forms & strengths This is patch dosage form .
The active ingredient strength is 5 % .
Inactive ingredients Water , Glycerin , Polyacrylic Acid , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Polyacrylate , Mineral Oil , Lavender Essential Oil , Polysorbate 80 , PVP , Petrolatum , Dihydroxyaluminum Aminoacetate , Edetate Disodium , Kaolin , Carboxymethylcellulose Sodium , Titanium Dioxide , L - Tartaric Acid , Benzalkonium Chloride , Lauralkonium Chloride Questions or comments Questions or comments : 86 - 21 - 31166566 Other information • store at 20 - 25 ℃ ( 68 - 77 ℉ ) • store in a cool dry place away from direct sunlight Package label .
Principal display panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
