Loratadine Oral Solution - Allergy Active Ingredient : Loratadine 5 mg ( in each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) ( TSP ) ) Purpose : Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • itchy , watery eyes • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat Warnings Do not use if you have ever had allergic reaction to this product or any of it ' s ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have liver or kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
When using this product do not take more than directed .
Taking more than directed may cause drowsiness .
Stop use and ask a doctor if an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Seek medical help right away .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 6 years and over 2 teaspoonfuls ( TSP ) daily ; do not take more than 2 teaspoonfuls ( TSP ) in 24 hours children 2 to under 6 years of age 1 teaspoonful ( TSP ) daily ; do not take more than 1 teaspoonful ( TSP ) in 24 hours children under 2 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • Each teaspoonful contains : sodium 1 mg • Safety Sealed .
Do not use if imprinted seal around cap is broken or missing • Store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Butylated hydroxylanisole , citric acid , glycerin , grape flavor , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sucralose .
Questions 1 - 888 - 974 - 5279 Distributed by : Lannett Company , Inc .
Philadelphia , PA 19136 Loratadine Oral Solution - Hives Relief Active Ingredient : Loratadine 5 mg ( in each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ( tsp ) ) ) Purpose : Antihistamine Uses • relieves itching due to hives ( urticaria ) .
This product will not prevent hives or an allergic skin reaction from occurring .
Warnings Severe Allergy Warning : Get emergency help immediately if you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • trouble swallowing • dizziness or loss of consciousness • swelling of tongue • swelling in or around mouth • trouble speaking • drooling • wheezing or problems breathing These symptoms may be signs of anaphylactic shock .
This condition can be life threatening if not treated by a health professional immediately .
Symptoms of anaphylactic shock may occur when hives first appear or up to a few hours later .
Not a Substitute for Epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for “ anaphylaxis ” or severe allergy symptoms that could occur with your hives , never use this product as a substitute for the epinephrine injector .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
Do not use - to prevent hives from any known cause such as : • foods • insects stings • medicines • latex or rubber gloves because this product will not stop hives from occurring .
Avoiding the cause of your hives is the only way to prevent them .
Hives can sometimes be serious .
If you do not know the cause of your hives , see your doctor for a medical exam .
Your doctor may be able to help you find a cause .
- if you have ever had an allergic reaction to this product ( loratadine ) or any of its ingredients Ask a doctor before use if you have • liver or kidney disease .
Your doctor should determine if you need a different dose .
• hives that are an unusual color , look bruised or blistered • hives that do not itch When using this product do not take more than directed .
Taking more than directed may cause drowsiness .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • an allergic reaction to this product occurs .
Get medical help right away • symptoms don ’ t improve after 3 days of treatment • the hives have lasted more than 6 weeks If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions adults and children 6 years and over 2 teaspoonfuls ( tsp ) daily ; do not take more than 2 teaspoonfuls ( tsp ) in 24 hours children under 6 years of age ask a doctor consumers with liver or kidney disease ask a doctor Other information • Safety sealed .
Do not use if imprinted seal around cap is broken or missing • Store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Butylated hydroxyanisole , citric acid , glycerin , grape flavor , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sucralose .
Questions 1 - 888 - 974 - 5279 Manufactured by : Silarx Pharmaceuticals , Inc . 1033 Stoneleigh Ave Carmel , NY 10512 USA Patient Leaflet Once Daily / Non - Drowsy * Loratadine Oral Solution Hives Relief 5 mg per 5 mL Antihistamine What you should know about : Non - Drowsy * Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Original Prescription Strength – 24 Hour Product Relief of Itching Due to Hives ( Please read all of this information before taking Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Product .
Save this leaflet for future reference . )
What is Loratadine Oral Solution - Hives Relief product ?
Loratadine Oral Solution - Hives Relief product contain loratadine , a non - drowsy * antihistamine .
Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Original prescription strength medicine to relieve itching due to hives .
What are hives and what do they look like ?
Hives are itchy raised red or pink bumps , blotches or streaky areas of various sizes on the surface of the skin .
They can come and go .
Do not use this product if your hives look bruised , have an unusual color , or look blistered .
These may be signs of a more serious problem .
If you have these signs , ask a Doctor before taking Loratadine Oral Solution - Hives Relief product .
What can cause hives ?
Many things , including food , drugs ( medicines ) , insect stings , stress , exercise or temperature can cause hives .
A doctor may be able to help you find the cause of your hives .
When you know the cause , avoid it .
Do not use this product to prevent hives or allergic skin reactions known to be caused by food , insect stings , medicines , latex or rubber gloves , or any other causes .
Many medicines can cause hives .
How long do hives last ?
Hives can last from a few hours to a few weeks , and often come and go .
See a doctor if your hives have lasted more than 6 weeks .
Are hives very serious ?
Hives are very common and they are usually not serious .
But in rare cases , they can be the first sign of a life threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis .
A sign that you have this serious reaction would be that you have hives along with any of the following symptoms : • Dizziness or feeling faint • Trouble swallowing • Wheezing or problems breathing • Trouble speaking • Hives or swelling in or around the mouth • Drooling Hives AND any of these symptoms means call 911 or Get Immediate Medical Help Can I use Loratadine Oral Solution - Hives Relief product instead of an epinephrine injection for my allergic reaction ?
Never use Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product as a substitute for epinephrine .
If your doctor has prescribed an epinephrine injector for your severe allergic reactions , your doctor is concerned that your hives might lead to a severe allergic reaction ( anaphylaxis ) or to asthma - like symptoms that could occur with your hives .
Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product is not a substitute for epinephrine .
If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , carry it with you at all times .
Who can take Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Product ?
People who have hives ( urticaria ) and are 6 years of age or older can take Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product .
( See label Directions for proper dose . )
Who should not take Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Product ?
• People who have ever had an allergic reaction to these products or any of their ingredients .
• People who are taking any other products containing loratadine • People with liver or kidney disease unless directed by a doctor • Children under the age of 6 years .
What if I know the cause of my hives and I want to take Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Product to prevent the hives from occurring ?
Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product should never be used to prevent hives or allergic skin reactions from any known cause .
Such causes can include but are not limited to : • Food • Insect Stings • Medicines • Latex or rubber gloves .
If you have ever had an allergic reaction to any of these causes , you should see a doctor .
When should you contact a doctor ?
Contact a doctor before taking Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product if you have : • Hives that have an unusual color or that look bruised or blistered • Hives that have lasted longer than 6 weeks If you are pregnant or breast feeding , you should ask a doctor or health professional before use .
Contact a doctor while taking Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief Product if you ( or your child ) have : • A rash or itching that does not get better after taking Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product for 3 days • Hives that keep coming back .
How long can Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product be taken to relieve the itching ?
Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product can be taken during the entire time that you have itching due to hives ( see Directions ) .
Don ’ t forget , if the hives last longer than 6 weeks , contact your doctor .
How should Loratadine Oral Solution – Hives Relief product be taken ?
• Adults and children 6 years and older should take 2 teaspoonfuls of Loratadine Oral Solution ( 10 mg ) daily .
• Do not take more than one dose in 24 hour period .
• If you have liver or kidney disease , ask a doctor .
What else can I do to make the itching and rash feel better ?
Wear loose clothing to help reduce irritation .
Keeping the temperature cool can help with the itching .
Other important information : • Allergy Alert : Do not use if you are allergic to loratadine , any of its ingredients , or other antihistamines .
• If you have been prescribed an epinephrine injector , you should carry it with you at all times .
• Keep out of reach of children .
• In case of an overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
* When taken as directed .
See drug facts panel on carton .
Silarx Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
1033 Stoneleigh Ave . Carmel , NY 10512 10 - 1108 Rev . 11 / 17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
