Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic Acid 1 % Purpose Acne Treatment Use for the management of acne Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once daily or every other day .
Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Warnings For external use only Inactive ingredients sodium cocoyl , isethionate , stearic acid , water , sodium isethionate , fragrance , cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine , sodium chloride , galactoarabinan , disodium EDTA , pentasodium pentelate , titanium dioxide When using this product • do not use this prouct more than three times a day • skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Questions or comments ?
Within US 1 - 800 - 950 - 4695 Proactiv Cleansing Body Bar 7 35786 02037 8 Drug Facts Active ingredient … … … Purpose Salicylic acid 1 % ... Acne Treatment Use for management of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • do not use this product more than three times per day .
• skin irritation and dryness are more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Drug Facts ( continued ) Directions • Sensitivity Test for a New User : Apply product sparingly to one or two small affected areas during the first 3 days .
If no discomfort occurs , follow the directions stated below .
• apply a small amount to dampened skin .
• cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily .
• because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
proactiv ® CLEANSING BODY BAR Net wt .
2 . 7 OZ .
79 g Salicylic acid acne treatment This soap - free cleansing bar contains acne - fighting salicylic acid to help clear pores as well as treat and help prevent new acne blemishes on the face and body .
Sulfate - free • dermatologist tested • non - comedogenic KEY INGREDIENTS : Salicylic Acid – an acne medicine that penetrates the follicle and encourages the shedding of dead skin cells , helping keep the pores clear of cellular debris .
Cleans up acne blemishes and helps prevent new ones from forming .
Cleansing Agent – mild , high - foaming cleansing ingredient derived from coconut oil , making proactive Cleansing Body Bar soap - free and surfactant - free .
Distributed by The Proactiv Company LLC • 100 N Sepulveda Blvd . , El Segundo , CA 90245 • proactive . com Made in the USA of Foreign and Domestic Components • Proactiv is a trademark of the The Proactive Company SanL PA01113 TIPS Wet hands and work bar until it lathers .
Apply to dampened skin , gently massaging in an upward circular motion .
Rinse thoroughly with warm water and pat dry with a clean towel .
Can be used twice daily .
If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application use to once a day .
Can be used all over the face and body or on targeted areas .
If using during the day , follow with a sunscreen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
