1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AzaSite ® is indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following microorganisms : CDC coryneform group G [ 1 ] Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus mitis group Streptococcus pneumoniae [ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
AzaSite is a macrolide antibiotic indicated for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis caused by susceptible isolates of the following microorganisms : CDC coryneform group G , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus , Streptococcus mitis group , and Streptococcus pneumoniae .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage regimen for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis is : Instill 1 drop in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily , eight to twelve hours apart for the first two days and then instill 1 drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily for the next five days .
Instill 1 drop in the affected eye ( s ) twice daily , eight to twelve hours apart for the first two days and then instill 1 drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily for the next five days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 2 . 5 mL of a 1 % sterile topical ophthalmic solution .
2 . 5 mL of 1 % sterile topical ophthalmic solution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • For topical ophthalmic use only .
( 5 . 1 ) • Anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity have been reported with systemic use of azithromycin .
( 5 . 2 ) • Growth of resistant organisms may occur with prolonged use .
( 5 . 3 ) • Patients should not wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Topical Ophthalmic Use Only NOT FOR INJECTION .
AzaSite is indicated for topical ophthalmic use only , and should not be administered systemically , injected subconjunctivally , or introduced directly into the anterior chamber of the eye .
5 . 2 Anaphylaxis and Hypersensitivity with Systemic Use of Azithromycin In patients receiving systemically administered azithromycin , serious allergic reactions , including angioedema , anaphylaxis , and dermatologic reactions including Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported rarely in patients on azithromycin therapy .
Although rare , fatalities have been reported .
The potential for anaphylaxis or other hypersensitivity reactions should be considered based on known hypersensitivity to azithromycin when administered systemically .
5 . 3 Growth of Resistant Organisms with Prolonged Use As with other anti - infectives , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms , including fungi .
If super - infection occurs , discontinue use and institute alternative therapy .
Whenever clinical judgment dictates , the patient should be examined with the aid of magnification , such as slit - lamp biomicroscopy , and where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
5 . 4 Avoidance of Contact Lenses Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in one clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared with the rates in the clinical trials of the same or another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to AzaSite in 698 patients .
The population was between 1 and 87 years old with clinical signs and symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
The most frequently reported ocular adverse reaction reported in patients receiving AzaSite was eye irritation .
This reaction occurred in approximately 1 - 2 % of patients .
Other adverse reactions associated with the use of AzaSite were reported in less than 1 % of patients and included ocular reactions ( blurred vision , burning , stinging and irritation upon instillation , contact dermatitis , corneal erosion , dry eye , eye pain , itching , ocular discharge , punctate keratitis , visual acuity reduction ) and non - ocular reactions ( dysgeusia , facial swelling , hives , nasal congestion , periocular swelling , rash , sinusitis , urticaria ) .
Most common adverse reaction reported in patients was eye irritation ( 1 - 2 % of patients ) .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Thea Pharma Inc . at 1 - 833 - 838 - 4028 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice at doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
The highest dose was associated with moderate maternal toxicity .
These doses are estimated to be approximately 5 , 000 times the maximum human ocular daily dose of 2 mg .
In the animal studies , no evidence of harm to the fetus due to azithromycin was found .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , azithromycin should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether azithromycin is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when azithromycin is administered to a nursing woman .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of AzaSite solution in pediatric patients below 1 year of age have not been established .
The efficacy of AzaSite in treating bacterial conjunctivitis in pediatric patients one year or older has been demonstrated in controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION AzaSite ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) is a 1 % sterile aqueous topical ophthalmic solution of azithromycin formulated in DuraSite ® ( polycarbophil , edetate disodium , sodium chloride ) .
AzaSite is an off - white , viscous liquid with an osmolality of approximately 290 mOsm / kg .
Preservative : 0 . 003 % benzalkonium chloride .
Inactives : mannitol , citric acid , sodium citrate , poloxamer 407 , polycarbophil , edetate disodium ( EDTA ) , sodium chloride , water for injection , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 6 . 3 .
Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic with a 15 - membered ring .
Its chemical name is ( 2 R , 3 S , 4 R , 5 R , 8 R , 10 R , 11 R , 12 S , 13 S , 14 R ) - 13 - [ ( 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - C - methyl - 3 - O - methyl - α - L - ribohexopyranosyl ) oxy ] - 2 - ethyl - 3 , 4 , 10 - trihydroxy - 3 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 10 , 12 , 14 - heptamethyl - 11 - [ [ 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 - ( dimethylamino ) - β - D - xylo - hexopyranosyl ] oxy ] - 1 - oxa - 6 - aza - cyclopentadecan - 15 - one , and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Azithromycin has a molecular weight of 749 , and its empirical formula is C 38 H 72 N 2 O 12 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The plasma concentration of azithromycin following ocular administration of AzaSite ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) in humans is unknown .
Based on the proposed dose of one drop to each eye ( total dose of 100 mcL or 1 mg ) and exposure information from systemic administration , the systemic concentration of azithromycin following ocular administration is estimated to be below quantifiable limits ( ≤ 10 ng / mL ) at steady - state in humans , assuming 100 % systemic availability .
12 . 4 Microbiology Azithromycin acts by binding to the 50 S ribosomal subunit of susceptible microorganisms and interfering with microbial protein synthesis .
Azithromycin has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and clinically in conjunctival infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
CDC coryneform group G [ 1 ] Haemophilus influenzae Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus mitis group Streptococcus pneumoniae The following in vitro data are also available , but their clinical significance in ophthalmic infections is unknown .
The safety and effectiveness of AzaSite in treating ophthalmological infections due to these microorganisms have not been established .
The following microorganisms are considered susceptible when evaluated using systemic breakpoints .
However , a correlation between the in vitro systemic breakpoint and ophthalmological efficacy has not been established .
This list of microorganisms is provided as an aid only in assessing the potential treatment of conjunctival infections .
Azithromycin exhibits in vitro minimal inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) of equal or less ( systemic susceptible breakpoint ) against most ( ≥ 90 % ) of isolates of the following ocular pathogens : Chlamydia pneumoniae Chlamydia trachomatis Legionella pneumophila Moraxella catarrhalis Mycoplasma hominis Mycoplasma pneumoniae Neisseria gonorrhoeae Peptostreptococcus species Streptococci ( Groups C , F , G ) Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus agalactiae Ureaplasma urealyticum Viridans group streptococci [ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Azithromycin has shown no mutagenic potential in standard laboratory tests : mouse lymphoma assay , human lymphocyte clastogenic assay , and mouse bone marrow clastogenic assay .
No evidence of impaired fertility due to azithromycin was found in mice or rats that received oral doses of up to 200 mg / kg / day .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Phospholipidosis ( intracellular phospholipid accumulation ) has been observed in some tissues of mice , rats , and dogs given multiple systemic doses of azithromycin .
Cytoplasmic microvacuolation , which is likely a manifestation of phospholipidosis , has been observed in the corneas of rabbits given multiple ocular doses of AzaSite .
This effect was reversible upon cessation of AzaSite treatment .
The significance of this toxicological finding for animals and for humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a randomized , vehicle - controlled , double - blind , multicenter clinical study in which patients were dosed twice daily for the first two days , then once daily on days 3 , 4 , and 5 , AzaSite solution was superior to vehicle on days 6 - 7 in patients who had a confirmed clinical diagnosis of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Clinical resolution was achieved in 63 % ( 82 / 130 ) of patients treated with AzaSite versus 50 % ( 74 / 149 ) of patients treated with vehicle .
The p - value for the comparison was 0 . 03 and the 95 % confidence interval around the 13 % ( 63 % - 50 % ) difference was 2 % to 25 % .
The microbiological success rate for the eradication of the baseline pathogens was approximately 88 % compared to 66 % of patients treated with vehicle ( p < 0 . 001 , confidence interval around the 22 % difference was 13 % to 31 % ) .
Microbiologic eradication does not always correlate with clinical outcome in anti - infective trials .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AzaSite is a sterile aqueous topical ophthalmic formulation of 1 % azithromycin .
NDC 82584 - 307 - 03 : 2 . 5 mL in 5 mL bottle containing a total of 25 mg of azithromycin in a white , round , low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle , with a clear LDPE dropper tip , and a tan colored high density polyethylene ( HDPE ) eyedropper cap .
A white tamper evident over - cap is provided .
NDC 82584 - 307 - 04 : 2 . 5 mL in 4 mL bottle containing a total of 25 mg of azithromycin in a white , round , low - density polyethylene ( LDPE ) bottle , with a clear LDPE dropper tip , and a tan colored high density polyethylene ( HDPE ) eyedropper cap .
A white tamper evident over - cap is provided .
Storage and Handling : Store unopened bottle under refrigeration at 2 ° to 8 ° C ( 36 ° to 46 ° F ) .
Once the bottle is opened , store at 2 ° to 25 ° C ( 36 ° to 77 ° F ) for up to 14 days .
Discard after the 14 days .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Patients should be advised to avoid contaminating the applicator tip by allowing it to touch the eye , fingers or other sources .
Patients should be directed to discontinue use and contact a physician if any signs of an allergic reaction occur .
Patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of the therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by AzaSite ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
Patients should be advised to thoroughly wash hands prior to using AzaSite .
Patients should be advised to invert the closed bottle ( upside down ) and shake once before each use .
Remove cap with bottle still in the inverted position .
Tilt head back , and with bottle inverted , gently squeeze bottle to instill one drop into the affected eye ( s ) .
Manufactured for : Thea Pharma Inc .
Lexington , MA 02420 U . S . Patent No . : 7 , 758 , 553 AzaSite is a registered trademark of Sun Pharma © 2022 .
Thea Pharma Inc .
All rights reserved Rev . 05 / 22 N10270C2USA / 0522 A PATIENT INFORMATION AzaSite ® ( A - zuh - site ) ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) 1 % Read this Patient Information before you start using AzaSite ® and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is AzaSite ?
AzaSite is a prescription sterile eye drop solution .
AzaSite is used to treat bacterial conjunctivitis which is an infection of the eye caused by certain bacteria .
It is not known if AzaSite is safe and effective in children less than 1 year of age .
Information about bacterial conjunctivitis .
Bacterial conjunctivitis is a bacterial infection of the mucous membranes which line the inside of the eyelids .
Symptoms may include redness of the eye and discharge .
The infection can be spread to other people and to both eyes .
Who should not use AzaSite ?
Do not use AzaSite if you are allergic to azithromycin or any of the ingredients in AzaSite .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of the ingredients in AzaSite .
What should I tell my doctor before using AzaSite ?
Before you use AzaSite , tell your doctor if you : • wear contact lenses .
Do not wear contact lenses if you have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if AzaSite will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if AzaSite passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you are using AzaSite .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctors and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use AzaSite ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information leaflet for the right way to use AzaSite .
• Use AzaSite exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• For the first 2 days place 1 drop of AzaSite in your eye ( or eyes ) each morning and 1 drop in your eye ( or eyes ) each evening .
Wait 8 to 12 hours after placing your morning drops before you place evening drops in your eye ( or eyes ) .
• For the next 5 days place 1 drop of AzaSite in your eye ( or eyes ) 1 time each day .
• Make sure you continue to use AzaSite as directed by your doctor even if you feel better after you start using it .
Skipping drops can increase the chances that : • your medicine will not work well • Bacteria can develop resistance , which means in the future your bacterial conjunctivitis may not improve from AzaSite or other drugs that treat infections from bacteria .
What should I be aware of while using AzaSite ?
Do not wear contact lenses if you have signs or symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis and until you have finished your prescribed course of treatment .
The symptoms of bacterial conjunctivitis may include : • discharge coming from the eye • eye redness • eye irritation Only your doctor can tell you if you have bacterial conjunctivitis .
Severe allergic reactions have been reported rarely when azithromycin has been taken by mouth .
• Serious rash or serious allergic reactions may occur .
Azithromycin , the active ingredient in AzaSite , may cause a serious rash or a serious allergic reaction .
Both of these reactions may need to be treated in a hospital and may be life - threatening .
• Stop taking AzaSite and call your doctor right away or get emergency help if you have any of these symptoms : • skin rash , hives , sores in your mouth , or your skin blisters and peels • swelling of your face , eyes , lips , tongue , or throat • trouble swallowing or breathing Increased risk of other infections caused by bacteria or fungi .
• Using AzaSite for a long time may cause other bacteria or fungi to grow .
If this happens you may get a new infection .
Tell your doctor right away if your symptoms do not get better .
What are the possible side effects of AzaSite ?
The most common side effect of AzaSite is eye irritation .
Other side effects seen with AzaSite include : • eye burning , stinging and irritation when the drop hits your eye • irritation on your eyelid and the skin around your eye • a feeling of discomfort and irritation or that something is in your eye • dry eye • eye pain • eye itching • discharge coming from your eye • changes to the surface of your eye • blurred vision • changes in your taste • hives and rash on your skin • stuffy nose and sinus infection • swelling around your eye or of your face Tell your doctor about any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of AzaSite .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store AzaSite ?
• Before you open your AzaSite , store it in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After you open your AzaSite , store it at room temperature or the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 77 ° F ( 2 ° C to 25 ° C ) • AzaSite should not be stored for more than 14 days after opening .
After 14 days , throw the AzaSite bottle away .
• Safely throw away medicine that is out of date or no longer needed .
Keep AzaSite and all medicines out of reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of AzaSite Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use AzaSite for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AzaSite to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information summarizes the most important information about AzaSite .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about AzaSite that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . azasite . com or call 1 - 833 - 838 - 4028 .
What are the ingredients in AzaSite ?
Active ingredient : azithromycin Inactive ingredients : 0 . 003 % benzalkonium chloride , mannitol , citric acid , sodium citrate , poloxamer 407 , polycarbophil , edetate disodium ( EDTA ) , sodium chloride , water , and sodium hydroxide .
Instructions for Use AzaSite ® ( A - zuh - site ) ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) 1 % Read this Instructions for Use for AzaSite before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Important : • AzaSite is for use as an eye drop only .
The checklist below tells you when to use your medicine for each eye that has bacterial conjunctivitis : □ □ Day 1 : 1 drop in the morning and 1 drop in the evening □ □ Day 2 : 1 drop in the morning and 1 drop in the evening □ Day 3 1 drop anytime during the day □ Day 4 1 drop anytime during the day □ Day 5 1 drop anytime during the day □ Day 6 1 drop anytime during the day □ Day 7 1 drop anytime during the day This is a total of 9 drops of AzaSite for each infected eye .
• Avoid letting the applicator tip touch your eye , your fingers , or other objects .
• If a drop misses your eye , try again .
• Follow the steps below to use AzaSite correctly .
Before using a new bottle of AzaSite : [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Turn the white cap clockwise until it comes off .
Throw away the white cap .
See Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold the bottle straight , turn the tan cap counterclockwise until it comes off .
Put the tan cap back on the bottle and close tightly .
( This lets out the air . )
See Figure B Wash your hands each time you use AzaSite .
To use AzaSite : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 1 .
Turn the closed bottle upside down .
See Figure C Step 2 .
Shake your hand firmly .
This helps move the medicine into the tip of the bottle .
See Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Hold the bottle upside down and take off the tan cap .
See Figure E Step 4 .
Tilt your head back .
Hold the bottle over your eye and gently squeeze the bottle to let 1 drop into each eye that has bacterial conjunctivitis .
Put the tan cap back on the bottle and close tightly .
See Figure F If a drop does not come out of the bottle , repeat steps one to four .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Thea Pharma Inc .
Lexington , MA 02420 U . S . Patent No . : 7 , 758 , 553 AzaSite is a registered trademark of Sun Pharma .
© 2022 .
Thea Pharma Inc .
All rights reserved Rev . 05 / 22 N10270C2USA / 0522 B [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 5 mL Bottle Carton NDC 82584 - 307 - 03 AzaSITE ® ( azithromycin ophthalmic solution ) 1 % Sterile 2 . 5 mL Rx Only FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
