Active Ingredient ( s ) Alcohol 70 % v / v .
Purpose : Antimicrobial Purpose Antiseptic , Hand Sanitizer Use Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flame Do not use • in children less than 2 months of age • on open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet hands with product and briskly rub hands together until dry • Supervise children under 6 years of age in use of this product Other information • Store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) • May discolor certain abric Inactive ingredients glycerin , hydrogen peroxide , purified water USP Editorial revisions to the wording This is a hand sanitizer manufactured according to the Temporary Policy for Preparation of Certain Alcohol - Based Hand Sanitizer Products During the Public Health Emergency ( CoViD - 19 ) ; Guidance for Industry .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommendations : • Alcohol ( ethanol ) ( USP or Food Chemical Codex ( FCC ) grade ) ( 80 % , volume / volume ( v / v ) ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
• Glycerol ( 1 . 45 % v / v ) .
• Hydrogen peroxide ( 0 . 125 % v / v ) .
• Sterile distilled water or boiled cold water .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel Hylolex Hand Sanitizer Lavender + Zinc Sulfate + Paraben Free 70 % Ethyl Alcohol Kills Germs [ MULTIMEDIA ] 59 mL NDC : 75540 - 528 - 02 HX - HandSanitizer - 041020 - Lavender2 ( 1 ) .
jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
