DESCRIPTION Pyrazinamide , the pyrazine analogue of nicotinamide , is an antituberculous agent .
It is a white crystalline powder , stable at room temperature , and sparingly soluble in water .
Pyrazinamide has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each pyrazinamide tablet for oral administration contains 500 mg of pyrazinamide and the following inactive ingredients : Corn Starch , Magnesium Stearate , Pregelatinized Starch and Stearic Acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pyrazinamide is well absorbed from the GI tract and attains peak plasma concentrations within 2 hours .
Plasma concentrations generally range from 30 to 50 mcg / mL with doses of 20 to 25 mg / kg .
It is widely distributed in body tissues and fluids including the liver , lungs and cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) .
The CSF concentration is approximately equal to concurrent steady - state plasma concentrations in patients with inflamed meninges . 1 Pyrazinamide is approximately 10 % bound to plasma proteins . 2 The half - life ( t1 / 2 ) of pyrazinamide is 9 to 10 hours in patients with normal renal and hepatic function .
The plasma half - life may be prolonged in patients with impaired renal or hepatic function .
Pyrazinamide is hydrolyzed in the liver to its major active metabolite , pyrazinoic acid .
Pyrazinoic acid is hydroxylated to the main excretory product , 5 - hydroxypyrazinoic acid . 3 Approximately 70 % of an oral dose is excreted in urine , mainly by glomerular filtration within 24 hours . 3 Pyrazinamide may be bacteriostatic or bactericidal against Mycobacterium tuberculosis depending on the concentration of the drug attained at the site of infection .
The mechanism of action is unknown .
In vitro and in vivo the drug is active only at a slightly acidic pH . INDICATIONS & USAGE Pyrazinamide is indicated for the initial treatment of active tuberculosis in adults and children when combined with other antituberculous agents .
( The current recommendation of the CDC for drug - susceptible disease is to use a six - month regimen for initial treatment of active tuberculosis , consisting of isoniazid , rifampin and pyrazinamide given for 2 months , followed by isoniazid and rifampin for 4 months .
* 4 ) ( Patients with drug - resistant disease should be treated with regimens individualized to their situation .
Pyrazinamide frequently will be an important component of such therapy . )
( In patients with concomitant HIV infection , the physician should be aware of current recommendations of CDC .
It is possible these patients may require a longer course of treatment . )
It is also indicated after treatment failure with other primary drugs in any form of active tuberculosis .
Pyrazinamide should only be used in conjunction with other effective antituberculous agents .
* See recommendations of Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) and American Thoracic Society for complete regimen and dosage recommendations . 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Pyrazinamide is contraindicated in persons : • with severe hepatic damage .
• who have shown hypersensitivity to it .
• with acute gout .
WARNINGS Patients started on pyrazinamide should have baseline serum uric acid and liver function determinations .
Those patients with preexisting liver disease or those at increased risk for drug related hepatitis ( e . g . , alcohol abusers ) should be followed closely .
Pyrazinamide should be discontinued and not be resumed if signs of hepatocellular damage or hyperuricemia accompanied by an acute gouty arthritis appear .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Pyrazinamide inhibits renal excretion of urates , frequently resulting in hyperuricemia which is usually asymptomatic .
If hyperuricemia is accompanied by acute gouty arthritis , pyrazinamide should be discontinued .
Pyrazinamide should be used with caution in patients with a history of diabetes mellitus , as management may be more difficult .
Primary resistance of M . tuberculosis to pyrazinamide is uncommon .
In cases with known or suspected drug resistance , in vitro susceptibility tests with recent cultures of M . tuberculosis against pyrazinamide and the usual primary drugs should be performed .
There are few reliable in vitro tests for pyrazinamide resistance .
A reference laboratory capable of performing these studies must be employed .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Patients should be instructed to notify their physicians promptly if they experience any of the following : fever , loss of appetite , malaise , nausea and vomiting , darkened urine , yellowish discoloration of the skin and eyes , pain or swelling of the joints .
Compliance with the full course of therapy must be emphasized , and the importance of not missing any doses must be stressed .
LABORATORY TESTS Baseline liver function studies [ especially ALT ( SGPT ) , AST ( SGOT ) determinations ] and uric acid levels should be determined prior to therapy .
Appropriate laboratory testing should be performed at periodic intervals and if any clinical signs or symptoms occur during therapy .
DRUG & OR LABORATORY TEST INTERACTIONS Pyrazinamide has been reported to interfere with ACETEST ® and KETOSTIX ® urine tests to produce a pink - brown color . 5 CARCINOGENESIS & MUTAGENESIS & IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY In lifetime bioassays in rats and mice , pyrazinamide was administered in the diet at concentrations of up to 10 , 000 ppm .
This resulted in estimated daily doses for the mouse of 2 g / kg , or 40 times the maximum human dose , and for the rat of 0 . 5 g / kg , or 10 times the maximum human dose .
Pyrazinamide was not carcinogenic in rats or male mice and no conclusion was possible for female mice due to insufficient numbers of surviving control mice .
Pyrazinamide was not mutagenic in the Ames bacterial test , but induced chromosomal aberrations in human lymphocyte cell cultures .
PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pyrazinamide .
It is also not known whether pyrazinamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Pyrazinamide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS Pyrazinamide has been found in small amounts in breast milk .
Therefore , it is advised that pyrazinamide be used with caution in nursing mothers taking into account the risk - benefit of this therapy . 9 PEDIATRIC USE Pyrazinamide regimens employed in adults are probably equally effective in pediatric patients . 4 , 10 , 11 Pyrazinamide appears to be well tolerated in pediatric patients .
GERIATRIC USE Clinical studies of pyrazinamide did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic or renal function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
It does not appear that patients with impaired renal function require a reduction in dose .
It may be prudent to select doses at the low end of the dosing range , however . 13 ADVERSE REACTIONS General Fever , porphyria and dysuria have rarely been reported .
Gout ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Gastrointestinal The principal adverse effect is a hepatic reaction ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hepatotoxicity appears to be dose related , and may appear at any time during therapy .
GI disturbances including nausea , vomiting and anorexia have also been reported .
Hematologic and Lymphatic Thrombocytopenia and sideroblastic anemia with erythroid hyperplasia , vacuolation of erythrocytes and increased serum iron concentration have occurred rarely with this drug .
Adverse effects on blood clotting mechanisms have also been rarely reported .
Other Mild arthralgia and myalgia have been reported frequently .
Hypersensitivity reactions including rashes , urticaria , and pruritus have been reported .
Fever , acne , photosensitivity , porphyria , dysuria and interstitial nephritis have been reported rarely .
OVERDOSAGE Overdosage experience is limited .
In one case report of overdose , abnormal liver function tests developed .
These spontaneously reverted to normal when the drug was stopped .
Clinical monitoring and supportive therapy should be employed .
Pyrazinamide is dialyzable . 13 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Pyrazinamide should always be administered with other effective antituberculous drugs .
It is administered for the initial 2 months of a 6 - month or longer treatment regimen for drug - susceptible patients .
Patients who are known or suspected to have drug - resistant disease should be treated with regimens individualized to their situation .
Pyrazinamide frequently will be an important component of such therapy .
Patients with concomitant HIV infection may require longer courses of therapy .
Physicians treating such patients should be alert to any revised recommendations from CDC for this group of patients .
Usual dose : Pyrazinamide is administered orally , 15 to 30 mg / kg once daily .
Older regimens employed 3 to 4 divided doses daily , but most current recommendations are for once a day .
Three grams per day should not be exceeded .
The CDC recommendations do not exceed 2 g per day when given as a daily regimen ( see table ) .
Alternatively , a twice weekly dosing regimen ( 50 to 70 mg / kg twice weekly based on lean body weight ) has been developed to promote patient compliance with a regimen on an outpatient basis .
In studies evaluating the twice weekly regimen , doses of pyrazinamide in excess of 3 g twice weekly have been administered .
This exceeds the recommended maximum 3 g / daily dose .
However , an increased incidence of adverse reactions has not been reported .
The table is taken from the CDC - American Thoracic Society joint recommendations : 4 Recommended Drugs for the Initial Treatment of Tuberculosis in Children and Adults Drug Daily Dose * Maximal Daily Dose in Children and Adults Twice Weekly Dose Children Adults Children Adults Isoniazid 10 to 20 mg / kg PO or IM 5 mg / kg PO or IM 300 mg 20 to 40 mg / kg Max .
900 mg 15 mg / kg Max .
900 mg Rifampin 10 to 20 mg / kg PO 10 mg / kg PO 600 mg 10 to 20 mg / kg Max .
600 mg 10 mg / kg Max .
600 mg Pyrazinamide 15 to 30 mg / kg PO 15 to 30 mg / kg PO 2 g 50 to 70 mg / kg 50 to 70 mg / kg Streptomycin 20 to 40 mg / kg IM 15 mg / kg ** IM 1 g ** 25 to 30 mg / kg IM 25 to 30 mg / kg IM Ethambutol 15 to 25 mg / kg PO 15 to 25 mg / kg PO 2 . 5 g 50 mg / kg 50 mg / kg Definition of abbreviations : PO = perorally ; IM = intramuscularly .
* Doses based on weight should be adjusted as weight changes .
** In persons older than 60 yrs of age the daily dose of streptomycin should be limited to 10 mg / kg with a maximal dose of 750 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 5963 NDC : 50090 - 5963 - 0 100 TABLET in a BOTTLE REFERENCES • Drug Information , American Hospital Formulary Service .
American Society of Hospital Pharmacists .
Bethesda , MD . 1991 .
• USPDI , Drug Information for the Health Care Professional .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc .
Rockville , MD . 1991 : 1 B : 2226 - 2227 .
• Goodman - Gilman A , Rall TW , Nies AS , Taylor P .
The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics , ed 8 .
New York , Pergamon Press .
1990 ; 1154 .
• Treatment of tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection in adults and children .
Am Rev Respir Dis .
1986 ; 134 : 363 - 368 .
• Reynolds JEF , Parfitt K , Parsons AV , Sweetman SC .
Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia , ed 29 .
London , The Pharmaceutical Press .
1989 ; 569 - 570 .
• Bioassay of pyrazinamide for possible carcinogenicity .
National Cancer Institute Carcinogenesis Technical Report Series No . 48 , 1978 .
• Zerger E , Anderson B , Haworth S , Lawlor T , Mortelmans K , Speck W . Salmonella mutagenicity tests : III .
Results from the testing of 255 chemicals .
Environ Mutagen .
1987 ; 9 ( Suppl 9 ) : 1 - 109 .
• Roman IC , Georgian L . Cytogenetic effects of some antituberculosis drugs in vitro .
Mutation Research .
1977 ; 48 : 215 - 224 .
• Holdiness M . Antituberculosis drugs and breast - feeding .
Arch Intern Med .
1984 ; 144 : 1888 .
• Turcios N , Evans H . Preventing and managing tuberculosis in children .
J Resp Dis .
1989 ; 10 ( 6 ) ( Jun ) : 23 .
• Starke JR .
Multidrug therapy for tuberculosis in children .
Pediatr Infec Dis J . 1990 ; 9 : 785793 .
• Specific requirements on content and format of labeling for human prescription drugs ; proposed addition of " geriatric use " subsection in the labeling .
Federal Register .
1990 ; 55 ( 212 ) ( Nov 1 ) : 46134 - 46137 .
• Stamathakis G , Montes C , Trouvin JH , et al .
Pyrazinamide and pyrazinoic acid pharmacokinetics in patients with chronic renal failure .
Clinical Nephrology .
1988 ; 30 : 230 - 234 .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured by : Novitium Pharma , LLC 70 Lake Drive , East Windsor New Jersey 08520 Issued : 01 / 2021 LB4280 - 00 PYRAZINAMIDE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
