WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
( 5 . 3 ) Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 ) WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY OR FOR WEIGHT LOSS Thyroid hormones , including Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
( 5 . 3 ) Larger doses may produce serious or even life - threatening manifestations of toxicity .
( 6 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma .
Limitations of Use : The relative bioavailability between Levothyroxine Sodium Injection and oral levothyroxine products has not been established .
Caution should be used when switching patients from oral levothyroxine products to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection as accurate dosing conversion has not been studied .
Levothyroxine Sodium is an L - thyroxine product .
Levothyroxine ( T4 ) Sodium Injection is indicated for the treatment of myxedema coma .
( 1 ) Important Limitations of Use : The relative bioavailability of this drug has not been established .
Use caution when converting patients from oral to intravenous levothyroxine .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Consider the patient ’ s age , general physical condition , cardiac risk factors , as well as the clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms when determining dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease .
( 2 . 1 ) • • An initial intravenous loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection between 300 to 500 mcg followed by once daily intravenous maintenance doses between 50 and 100 mcg should be administered , as clinically indicated , until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
( 2 . 1 ) • • Do not add to other IV fluids .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosage An initial intravenous loading dose of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection between 300 to 500 mcg , followed by once daily intravenous maintenance doses between 50 and 100 mcg , should be administered , as clinically indicated , until the patient can tolerate oral therapy .
The age , general physical condition , and cardiac risk factors of the patient , as well as the clinical severity of myxedema and duration of myxedema symptoms should be considered when determining the starting and maintenance dosages of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
Levothyroxine Sodium Injection produces a gradual increase in the circulating concentrations of the hormone with an approximate half - life of 9 to 10 days in hypothyroid patients .
Daily administration of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection should be maintained until the patient is capable of tolerating an oral dose and is clinically stable .
For chronic treatment of hypothyroidism , an oral dosage form of levothyroxine should be used to maintain a euthyroid state .
Relative bioavailability between Levothyroxine Sodium Injection and oral levothyroxine products has not been established .
Based on medical practice , the relative bioavailability between oral and intravenous administration of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is estimated to be from 48 to 74 % .
Due to differences in absorption characteristics of patients and the oral levothyroxine product formulations , TSH and thyroid hormone levels should be measured a few weeks after initiating oral levothyroxine and dose adjusted accordingly .
2 . 2 Dosing in the Elderly and in Patients with Cardiovascular Disease Intravenous levothyroxine may be associated with cardiac toxicity – including arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death – in the elderly and in those with underlying cardiovascular disease .
Therefore , cautious use , including doses in the lower end of the recommended range , may be warranted in these populations .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions Intravenous levothyroxine may be associated with cardiac toxicity - including arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death — in the elderly and in those with underlying cardiovascular disease .
Therefore , cautious use , including doses in the lower end of the recommended range , may be warranted in these populations .
Discard any unused portion .
DO NOT ADD LEVOTHYROXINE SODIUM INJECTION TO OTHER INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Levothyroxine sodium injection 100 mcg / mL is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied as 1 mL per vial .
Injection : 100 mcg / mL in a single - dose vial .
Ready - to - use solution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease : Overtreatment may cause arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Start with lower doses in elderly patients and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease and monitor patients after administration ( 5 . 1 ) .
• • Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment ( 5 . 2 ) .
• • Worsening of Diabetic Control : May worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control ( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Cardiac Complications in Elderly and in Patients with Cardiovascular Disease Excessive bolus dosing of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection ( greater than 500 mcg ) is associated with cardiac complications , particularly in the elderly and in patients with an underlying cardiac condition .
Adverse events that can potentially be related to the administration of large doses of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection include arrhythmias , tachycardia , myocardial ischemia and infarction , or worsening of congestive heart failure and death .
Cautious use , including doses in the lower end of the recommended range , may be warranted in these populations .
Close observation of the patient following the administration of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is advised .
5 . 2 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis , which can lead to myxedema coma , may occur in association with other autoimmune disorders such as adrenal insufficiency , pernicious anemia , and insulin ‑ dependent diabetes mellitus .
Patients should be treated with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of treatment with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , until adrenal function has been adequately assessed .
Failure to do so may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis when thyroid hormone therapy is initiated , due to increased metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids by thyroid hormone .
With initiation of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection , patients with myxedema coma should also be monitored for previously undiagnosed diabetes insipidus .
5 . 3 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with levothyroxine are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : • • General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating • • Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia • • Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm • • Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest • • Respiratory : dyspnea • • Gastrointestinal : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests • • Dermatologic : flushing , rash Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various gastrointestinal symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness , and wheezing .
Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur .
Adverse reactions associated with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating , headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm , palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest , dyspnea , diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests , flushing , and rash .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Leucadia Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 877 - 411 - 9681 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
( 7 , 12 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to Levothyroxine Sodium Injection ( see Tables 1 - 3 ) .
Table 1 : Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Effecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nictonic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Potential impact ( below ) : Administration of these agents with levothyroxine results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein - binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increase free T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total and free T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 2 : Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased levothyroxine requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ’ - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine .
Table 3 : Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change slightly , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
It should be noted that actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( See above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decreased or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of levothyroxine to antidiabetic or insulin therapy may result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Careful monitoring of diabetic control is recommended .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants Levothyroxine increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides Levothyroxine may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and levothyroxine may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
Levothyroxine may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in increased levothyroxine requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and levothyroxine may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients .
7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use may of sympathomimetics and levothyroxine may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determine the free T4 index ( FT4I ) in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens , and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Elderly and those with underlying cardiovascular disease should receive doses at the lower end of the recommended range .
( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The clinical data in pregnant women treated with oral levothyroxine to treat hypothyroidism do not indicate a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There are no data available on the use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in pregnant women .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with myxedema coma in pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
No developmental or reproductive toxicity studies in animals have been conducted with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
The estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
All pregnancies have background risks of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risks of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies are 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Myxedema coma is a medical emergency that can be fatal if left untreated .
Delaying treatment in pregnant women with myxedema coma increases the risk of maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality .
Life - sustaining therapy for pregnant women with myxedema coma should not be withheld due to potential concerns regarding the effects of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection on the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk following the administration of oral levothyroxine .
No adverse effects on the breastfed infant have been reported , and there is no information on the effects of levothyroxine on milk production from levothyroxine oral treatment .
There are no available data with use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in lactating women .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Levothyroxine Sodium Injection and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Levothyroxine Sodium Injection or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use and Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease See Section 2 , Dosage and Administration , for full prescribing information in the geriatric patient population .
Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease in the elderly , cautious use of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in the elderly and in patients with known cardiac risk factors is advised .
Atrial fibrillation is a common side effect associated with levothyroxine treatment in the elderly [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Serum creatinine and levothyroxine levels should be closely monitored in patients with severe renal impairment receiving intravenous levothyroxine with betadex sulfobutyl ( SBECD ) [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE In general , the signs and symptoms of overdosage with levothyroxine are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Excessive doses of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection ( greater than 500 mcg ) are associated with cardiac complications in patients with underlying cardiac disease .
Treatment of Overdosage Levothyroxine Sodium Injection should be reduced in dose or temporarily discontinued if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is the certified Regional Poison Control Center .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in the patient .
In the event of an overdose , appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated as dictated by the patient ’ s medical status .
11 DESCRIPTION Levothyroxine sodium injection contains synthetic levothyroxine ( L - thyroxine ) sodium salt .
Levothyroxine sodium has an empirical formula of C15H10I4NNaO4 , a molecular weight of 798 . 85 g / mol ( anhydrous ) , and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levothyroxine sodium injection is a sterile , preservative - free , clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution for intravenous administration available as 100 mcg / mL in a single - dose clear glass vial .
Each mL of levothyroxine sodium injection also contains 0 . 05 mg arginine , USP ; 80 mg betadex sulfobutyl ether sodium , USP ; 0 . 05 mg edetate disodium , USP ; and water for injection , USP .
Sodium chloride , USP was added to adjust tonicity .
Hydrochloric acid , NF and / or sodium hydroxide , NF may have been added for pH adjustment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and levothyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion is regulated by the hypothalamic pituitary - thyroid axis .
Thyrotropin releasing hormone ( TRH ) released from the hypothalamus stimulates secretion of thyrotropin stimulating hormone ( TSH ) from the anterior pituitary .
TSH , in turn , is the physiologic stimulus for the synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones , T4 and T3 , by the thyroid gland .
Circulating serum T3 and T4 levels exert a feedback effect on both TRH and TSH secretion .
When serum T3 and T4 levels increase , TRH and TSH secretion decrease .
When thyroid hormone levels decrease , TRH and TSH secretion increases .
TSH is used for the diagnosis of hypothyroidism and evaluation of levothyroxine therapy adequacy with other laboratory and clinical data [ see Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
There are drugs known to affect thyroid hormones and TSH by various mechanisms and those examples are diazepam , ethioamide , lovastatin , metoclopramide , 6 - mercaptopurine , nitroprusside , perphenazine , and thiazide diuretics .
Some drugs may cause a transient decrease in TSH secretion without hypothyroidism and those drugs ( dose ) are dopamine ( greater than 1 mcg per kg per min ) , glucocorticoids ( hydrocortisone greater than 100 mg per day or equivalent ) and octreotide ( greater than 100 mcg per day ) .
Thyroid hormones regulate multiple metabolic processes and play an essential role in normal growth and development , and normal maturation of the central nervous system and bone .
The metabolic actions of thyroid hormones include augmentation of cellular respiration and thermogenesis , as well as metabolism of proteins , carbohydrates and lipids .
The protein anabolic effects of thyroid hormones are essential to normal growth and development .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption – Levothyroxine Sodium Injection is administered via the intravenous route .
Following administration , the synthetic levothyroxine cannot be distinguished from the natural hormone that is secreted endogenously .
Distribution – Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half - life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 ) ] .
Betadex sulfobutyl ether ( SBECD ) does not affect levothyroxine binding to plasma proteins .
Metabolism – T4 is slowly eliminated .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately eighty percent of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by mono - deiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( rT3 ) .
T3 and rT3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Elimination – Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged , where it is hydrolyzed and eliminated in feces as the free hormones .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
In patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD ( eGFR of < 15 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , accumulation of SBECD occurs [ see Renal Impairment 8 . 6 ] .
Table 1 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid Patients Hormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( Days ) Protein Binding ( % ) 2 T4 10 to 20 1 6 to 81 99 . 96 T3 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 T4 : Levothyroxine T3 : Liothyronine 13 to 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism .
2 Includes TBG , TBPA , and TBA .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and Pharmacology No animal toxicology studies have been conducted with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES No clinical studies have been conducted with Levothyroxine Sodium Injection in patients with myxedema coma .
However , data from published literature support the intravenous use of levothyroxine sodium for the treatment of myxedema coma .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 100 mcg / mL is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution , supplied as1 mL per vial .
Package of 1 single - dose vial : NDC 24201 - 002 - 01 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Protect from light and store product at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Drug product is preservative free .
Discard any unused portion .
Manufactured for : Leucadia Pharmaceuticals Carlsbad , CA 92011 USA www . leucadiapharma . com Revised : 05 / 2021 INS - 0017 - R1 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Levothyroxine 100 mcg per mL Single Dose Vial Label NDC 24201 - 002 - 01 Levothyroxine Sodium Injection 100 mcg per vial For Intravenous Use 1 mL Single Dose Vial Discard any unused portion .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
