Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use for the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes .
If product gets into the eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
• skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• limit use to the face and neck Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wet face • dispense product into hands and massage gently onto face and neck , avoiding the delicate eye area • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly with warm water one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day Other information • keep tightly closed • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients water , sodium cocoyl isethionate , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , laureth - 3 , polyethylene , sodium laureth sulfate , sodium cocoamphoacetate , niacinamide , sodium lactate , sorbitol , hexyldecanol , fragrance , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , sodium hydroxide , dipotassium glycyrrhizate , disodium EDTA , bisabolol , cetylhydroxyproline palmitamide , stearic acid , polyquaternium - 43 , Brassica campestris ( rapeseed ) sterols , phenoxyethanol , sodium benzoate , FD & C blue no . 1 , FD & C yellow no . 6 Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 25 - CLEAR ( 1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 ) .
You may also report side effects to this phone number Distributed by : Reckitt Benckiser Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 mL Tube Label Clearasil ® ULTRA Acne + Marks Daily Scrub Salicylic Acid 2 % Acne Medication REDUCES MARKS Helps clear pimples fast , and reduces the appearance of acne marks 5 . 0 FL OZ ( 150 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
