WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY or FOR WEIGHT LOSS • Thyroid hormones , including TIROSINT - SOL , either alone or with other therapeutic agents , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• In euthyroid patients , doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are ineffective for weight reduction .
• Larger doses may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity , particularly when given in association with sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 7 ) , and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
WARNING : NOT FOR TREATMENT OF OBESITY or FOR WEIGHT LOSS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Thyroid hormones , including TIROSINT - SOL , should not be used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss .
• Doses beyond the range of daily hormonal requirements may produce serious or even life threatening manifestations of toxicity ( 6 , 10 ) .
1 INDICATION AND USAGE TIROSINT - SOL is L - thyroxine ( T4 ) indicated for : • Hypothyroidism - As replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism ( 1 ) • Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression - As an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer ( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients ( 1 ) • Not indicated for treatment of transient hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis ( 1 ) Hypothyroidism TIROSINT - SOL is indicated as a replacement therapy in primary ( thyroidal ) , secondary ( pituitary ) , and tertiary ( hypothalamic ) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism .
Pituitary Thyrotropin ( Thyroid - Stimulating Hormone , TSH ) Suppression TIROSINT - SOL is indicated as an adjunct to surgery and radioiodine therapy in the management of thyrotropin - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
Limitations of Use : • Tirosint - SOL is not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse goiter in iodine - sufficient patients as there are no clinical benefits and overtreatment with TIROSINT - SOL may induce hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Tirosint - SOL is not indicated for treatment of transient hypothyroidism during the recovery phase of subacute thyroiditis .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer once daily , on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast ( 2 . 1 ) • Administer at least 4 hours before or after drugs that are known to interfere with absorption ( 2 . 1 ) • Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within an hour of certain foods that may affect TIROSINT - SOL absorption ( 2 . 1 ) • To administer TIROSINT - SOL in water , squeeze the contents of one single unit - dose ampule into a glass or cup containing water ( 2 . 1 ) • To administer TIROSINT - SOL directly , either squeeze it into the mouth OR onto a spoon and immediately consume ( 2 . 1 ) • Starting dose depends on a variety of factors , including age , body weight , cardiovascular status , concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food , and the specific nature of the condition being treated .
Peak therapeutic effect may not be attained for 4 - 6 weeks ( 2 . 2 ) • See full prescribing information for dosing in specific patient populations ( 2 . 3 ) • Adequacy of therapy determined with periodic monitoring of TSH and / or T4 as well as clinical status ( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 General Administration Information Administer TIROSINT - SOL as a single daily oral dose , on an empty stomach , one - half to one hour before breakfast .
Administer TIROSINT - SOL at least 4 hours before or after drugs known to interfere with TIROSINT - SOL absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Evaluate the need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within an hour of certain foods that may affect TIROSINT - SOL absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 9 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
TIROSINT - SOL may be administered in water or directly into the mouth : • To administer TIROSINT - SOL in water , squeeze the contents of one single unit - dose ampule into a glass or cup containing water .
Stir the diluted TIROSINT - SOL and drink all of it immediately .
Rinse the glass or cup with additional water and drink the contents to ensure that the total dose is taken .
Do not dilute TIROSINT - SOL in a medium other than water .
Open the ampule and prepare the solution immediately before intake .
• To administer TIROSINT - SOL directly ( without water ) , either squeeze it into the mouth OR onto a spoon and immediately consume .
2 . 2 General Principles of Dosing The dose of TIROSINT - SOL for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of factors including : the patient ' s age , body weight , cardiovascular status , concomitant medical conditions ( including pregnancy ) , concomitant medications , co - administered food , and the specific nature of the condition being treated [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dose adjustments made based on periodic assessment of the patient ' s clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose of TIROSINT - SOL may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks .
2 . 3 Dosing in Specific Patient Populations Primary Hypothyroidism in Adults and in Adolescents in Whom Growth and Puberty are Complete Start TIROSINT - SOL at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy , non - elderly individuals who have been hypothyroid for only a short time ( such as a few months ) .
The average full replacement dose of TIROSINT - SOL is approximately 1 . 6 mcg per kg per day ( for example : 100 to 125 mcg per day for a 70 kg adult ) .
Adjust the dose by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg increments every 4 to 6 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal .
Doses greater than 200 mcg per day are seldom required .
An inadequate response to daily doses greater than 300 mcg per day is rare and may indicate poor compliance , malabsorption , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
For elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiovascular disease , start with a dose of 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day .
Increase the dose every 6 to 8 weeks , as needed , until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH returns to normal .
The full replacement dose of TIROSINT - SOL may be less than 1 mcg per kg per day in elderly patients .
In patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism , start with a dose of 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day .
Adjust the dose in 12 . 5 to 25 mcg increments every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum TSH level is normalized .
Secondary or Tertiary Hypothyroidism Start TIROSINT - SOL at the full replacement dose in otherwise healthy , non - elderly individuals .
Start with a lower dose in elderly patients with underlying cardiovascular disease or patients with severe longstanding hypothyroidism as described above .
Serum TSH is not a reliable measure of TIROSINT - SOL dose adequacy in patients with secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism and should not be used to monitor therapy .
Use the serum free - T4 level to monitor adequacy of therapy in this patient population .
Titrate TIROSINT - SOL dosing per above instructions until the patient is clinically euthyroid and the serum free - T4 level is restored to the upper half of the normal range .
Pediatric Dosage - Congenital or Acquired Hypothyroidism The recommended daily dose of TIROSINT - SOL in pediatric patients with hypothyroidism is based on body weight and changes with age as described in Table 1 .
Start TIROSINT - SOL at the full daily dose in most pediatric patients .
Start at a lower dose in newborns ( 0 to 3 months ) at risk for cardiac failure and children at risk for hyperactivity ( see below ) .
Monitor for clinical and laboratory response [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Table 1 : TIROSINT - SOL Dosing Guidelines for Pediatric HypothyroidismAGE Daily Dose Per Kg Body Weight [ 1 ] 0 - 3 months 10 - 15 mcg / kg / day 3 - 6 months 8 - 10 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 months 6 - 8 mcg / kg / day 1 - 5 years 5 - 6 mcg / kg / day 6 - 12 years 4 - 5 mcg / kg / day Greater than 12 years but growth and puberty incomplete 2 - 3 mcg / kg / day Growth and puberty complete 1 . 6 mcg / kg / day [ 1 ] The dose should be adjusted based on clinical response and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Newborns ( 0 to 3 months ) at risk for cardiac failure : Consider a lower starting dose in newborns at risk for cardiac failure .
Increase the dose in 4 to 6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response .
Children at risk for hyperactivity : To minimize the risk of hyperactivity in children , start at one - fourth the recommended full replacement dose , and increase on a weekly basis by one - fourth the full recommended replacement dose until the full recommended replacement dose is reached .
Pregnancy Preexisting Hypothyroidism : TIROSINT - SOL dose requirements may increase during pregnancy .
Measure serum TSH and free - T4 as soon as pregnancy is confirmed and , at a minimum , during each trimester of pregnancy .
In patients with primary hypothyroidism , maintain serum TSH in the trimester - specific reference range .
For patients with serum TSH above the normal trimester specific range , increase the dose of TIROSINT - SOL by 12 . 5 to 25 mcg per day and measure TSH every 4 weeks until a stable TIROSINT - SOL dose is reached and serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range .
Reduce TIROSINT - SOL dosage to pre - pregnancy levels immediately after delivery and measure serum TSH levels 4 to 8 weeks postpartum to ensure the TIROSINT - SOL dose is appropriate .
New Onset Hypothyroidism : Normalize thyroid function as rapidly as possible .
In patients with moderate to severe signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism , start TIROSINT - SOL at the full replacement dose ( 1 . 6 mcg per kg body weight per day ) .
In patients with mild hypothyroidism ( TSH < 10 mIU per Liter ) , start TIROSINT - SOL at 1 . 0 mcg per kg body weight per day .
Evaluate serum TSH every 4 weeks and adjust TIROSINT - SOL dosage until serum TSH is within the normal trimester specific range [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
TSH Suppression in Well - Differentiated Thyroid Cancer Generally , TSH is suppressed to below 0 . 1 mIU per Liter , and this usually requires a TIROSINT - SOL dose of greater than 2 mcg per kg per day .
However , in patients with high - risk tumors , the target level for TSH suppression may be lower .
2 . 4 Monitoring TSH and / or Thyroxine ( T4 ) Levels Assess the adequacy of therapy by periodic assessment of laboratory tests and clinical evaluation .
Persistent clinical and laboratory evidence of hypothyroidism , despite an apparent adequate replacement dose of TIROSINT - SOL , may be evidence of inadequate absorption , poor compliance , drug interactions , or a combination of these factors .
Adults In adult patients with primary hypothyroidism , monitor serum TSH levels after an interval of 6 to 8 weeks after any change in dose .
In patients on a stable and appropriate replacement dose , evaluate clinical and biochemical response every 6 to 12 months and whenever there is a change in the patient ' s clinical status .
Pediatrics In patients with congenital hypothyroidism , assess the adequacy of replacement therapy by measuring both serum TSH and total or free - T4 .
Monitor TSH and total or free - T4 in children as follows : 2 and 4 weeks after the initiation of treatment , 2 weeks after any change in dosage , and then every 3 to 12 months thereafter following dose stabilization until growth is completed .
Poor compliance or abnormal values may necessitate more frequent monitoring .
Perform routine clinical examination , including assessment of mental and physical growth and development , and bone maturation , at regular intervals .
While the general aim of therapy is to normalize the serum TSH level , TSH may not normalize in some patients due to in utero hypothyroidism causing a resetting of pituitary - thyroid feedback .
Failure of the serum T4 to increase into the upper half of the normal range within 2 weeks of initiation of TIROSINT - SOL therapy and / or of the serum TSH to decrease below 20 mIU per Liter within 4 weeks may indicate the child is not receiving adequate therapy .
Assess compliance , dose of medication administered , and method of administration prior to increasing the dose of TIROSINT - SOL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Secondary ( Pituitary ) and Tertiary ( Hypothalamic ) Hypothyroidism Monitor serum free - T4 levels and maintain in the upper half of the normal range in these patients .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS TIROSINT - SOL oral solution is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in a 1 mL white , non - transparent , unit - dose ampule .
Each ampule bears a colored label with the dosage strength and the product name ( TIROSINT - SOL ) : Strength ( mcg / mL ) Color 13 Green 25 Orange 37 . 5 Dark Blue 44 Red 50 White 75 Purple 62 . 5 Grey 88 Olive 100 Yellow 112 Rose 125 Brown 137 Turquoise 150 Blue 175 Lilac 200 Pink Oral solution : 13 , 25 , 37 . 5 , 44 , 50 , 62 . 5 , 75 , 88 , 100 , 112 , 125 , 137 , 150 , 175 , 200 mcg / mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS TIROSINT - SOL is contraindicated in patients with : • Hypersensitivity to glycerol , the inactive ingredient in TIROSINT - SOL [ see Adverse Events ( 6 ) ] .
• Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to glycerol ( 4 ) • Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiac adverse reactions in the elderly and in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease : Initiate TIROSINT - SOL at less than the full replacement dose because of the increased risk of cardiac adverse reactions , including atrial fibrillation .
( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 5 ) • Myxedema coma : Do not use oral thyroid hormone drug products to treat myxedema coma .
( 5 . 2 ) • Acute adrenal crisis in patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency : Treat with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiation of TIROSINT - SOL treatment .
( 5 . 3 ) • Prevention of hyperthyroidism or incomplete treatment of hypothyroidism : Proper dose titration and careful monitoring is critical to prevent the persistence of hypothyroidism or the development of hyperthyroidism .
( 5 . 4 ) • Worsening of diabetic control : Therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing thyroid hormone therapy .
( 5 . 5 ) • Decreased bone mineral density associated with thyroid hormone over - replacement : Over - replacement can increase bone resorption and decrease bone mineral density .
Give the lowest effective dose .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Cardiac Adverse Reactions in the Elderly and in Patients with Underlying Cardiovascular Disease Overtreatment with levothyroxine may cause an increase in heart rate , cardiac wall thickness , and cardiac contractility , and may precipitate angina or arrhythmias , particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients .
Initiate TIROSINT - SOL therapy in this population at lower doses than those recommended in younger individuals or in patients without cardiac disease [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Monitor for cardiac arrhythmias during surgical procedures in patients with coronary artery disease receiving suppressive TIROSINT - SOL therapy .
Monitor patients receiving concomitant TIROSINT - SOL and sympathomimetic agents for signs and symptoms of coronary insufficiency .
If cardiac symptoms develop or worsen , reduce the TIROSINT - SOL dose or withhold it for one week and restart at a lower dose .
5 . 2 Myxedema Coma Myxedema coma is a life - threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation and hypometabolism , and may result in unpredictable absorption of levothyroxine sodium from the gastrointestinal tract .
Use of oral thyroid hormone drug products is not recommended to treat myxedema coma .
Administer thyroid hormone products formulated for intravenous administration to treat myxedema coma .
5 . 3 Acute Adrenal Crisis in Patients with Concomitant Adrenal Insufficiency Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids .
Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy prior to initiating glucocorticoid therapy may precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency .
Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids prior to initiating treatment with TIROSINT - SOL [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Prevention of Hyperthyroidism or Incomplete Treatment of Hypothyroidism TIROSINT - SOL has a narrow therapeutic index .
Over - or under - treatment with TIROSINT - SOL may have negative effects on growth and development , cardiovascular function , bone metabolism , reproductive function , cognitive function , emotional state , gastrointestinal function , and on glucose and lipid metabolism .
Titrate the dose of TIROSINT - SOL carefully and monitor response to titration to avoid these effects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Monitor for the presence of drug or food interactions when using TIROSINT - SOL and adjust the dose as necessary [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Worsening of Diabetic Control Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting , changing , or discontinuing thyroid hormone therapy [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Decreased Bone Mineral Density Associated with Thyroid Hormone Over - Replacement Increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density may occur as a result of levothyroxine over - replacement , particularly in post - menopausal women .
The increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous , elevations in bone alkaline phosphatase , and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels .
Administer the minimum dose of TIROSINT - SOL that achieves the desired clinical and biochemical response to mitigate this risk .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions associated with TIROSINT - SOL therapy are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
They include the following : • General : fatigue , increased appetite , weight loss , heat intolerance , fever , excessive sweating • Central nervous system : headache , hyperactivity , nervousness , anxiety , irritability , emotional lability , insomnia • Musculoskeletal : tremors , muscle weakness , muscle spasm • Cardiovascular : palpitations , tachycardia , arrhythmias , increased pulse and blood pressure , heart failure , angina , myocardial infarction , cardiac arrest • Respiratory : dyspnea • Gastrointestinal ( GI ) : diarrhea , vomiting , abdominal cramps , elevations in liver function tests • Dermatologic : hair loss , flushing , rash • Endocrine : decreased bone mineral density • Reproductive : menstrual irregularities , impaired fertility Seizures have been reported rarely with the institution of levothyroxine therapy .
Adverse reactions associated with TIROSINT - SOL are primarily those of hyperthyroidism due to therapeutic overdosage including : arrhythmias , myocardial infarction , dyspnea , muscle spasm , headache , nervousness , irritability , insomnia , tremors , muscle weakness , increased appetite , weight loss , diarrhea , heat intolerance , menstrual irregularities , and skin rash ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact IBSA Pharma Inc . at 1 - 800 - 587 - 3513 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
Adverse Reactions in Children Pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children receiving levothyroxine therapy .
Overtreatment may result in craniosynostosis in infants and premature closure of the epiphyses in children with resultant compromised adult height .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions to inactive ingredients have occurred in patients treated with thyroid hormone products .
These include urticaria , pruritus , skin rash , flushing , angioedema , various GI symptoms ( abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and diarrhea ) , fever , arthralgia , serum sickness and wheezing .
Hypersensitivity to levothyroxine itself is not known to occur .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See full prescribing information for drugs that affect thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics and metabolism ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to TIROSINT - SOL ( 7 ) 7 . 1 Drugs Known to Affect Thyroid Hormone Pharmacokinetics Many drugs can exert effects on thyroid hormone pharmacokinetics ( e . g . , absorption , synthesis , secretion , catabolism , protein binding , and target tissue response ) and may alter the therapeutic response to TIROSINT - SOL ( see Tables 2 - 5 below ) .
Table 2 : Drugs That May Decrease T4 Absorption ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Concurrent use may reduce the efficacy of TIROSINT - SOL by binding and delaying or preventing absorption , potentially resulting in hypothyroidism .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Calcium Carbonate Ferrous Sulfate Calcium carbonate may form an insoluble chelate with levothyroxine , and ferrous sulfate likely forms a ferric - thyroxine complex .
Administer TIROSINT - SOL at least 4 hours apart from these agents .
Orlistat Monitor patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and TIROSINT - SOL for changes in thyroid function .
Bile Acid Sequestrants - Colesevelam - Cholestyramine - Colestipol Ion Exchange Resins - Kayexalate - Sevelamer Bile acid sequestrants and ion exchange resins are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption .
Administer TIROSINT - SOL at least 4 hours prior to these drugs or monitor thyrotropin ( TSH ) levels .
Other drugs : Proton Pump Inhibitors Sucralfate Antacids - Aluminum & Magnesium Hydroxides - Simethicone Gastric acidity is an essential requirement for adequate absorption of levothyroxine .
Sucralfate , antacids and proton pump inhibitors may cause hypochlorhydria , affect intragastric pH , and reduce levothyroxine absorption .
Monitor patients appropriately .
Table 3 : Drugs That May Alter T4 and Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) Serum Transport Without Affecting Free Thyroxine ( FT4 ) Concentration ( Euthyroidism ) Drug or Drug Class Effect Clofibrate Estrogen - containing oral contraceptives Estrogens ( oral ) Heroin / Methadone 5 - Fluorouracil Mitotane Tamoxifen These drugs may increase serum thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) concentration .
Androgens / Anabolic Steroids Asparaginase Glucocorticoids Slow - Release Nicotinic Acid These drugs may decrease serum TBG concentration .
Potential impact ( below ) : Administration of these agents with TIROSINT - SOL results in an initial transient increase in FT4 .
Continued administration results in a decrease in serum T4 and normal FT4 and TSH concentrations .
Salicylates ( > 2 g / day ) Salicylates inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin .
An initial increase in serum FT4 is followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations , although total T4 levels may decrease by as much as 30 % .
Other drugs : Carbamazepine Furosemide ( > 80 mg IV ) Heparin Hydantoins Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs - Fenamates These drugs may cause protein - binding site displacement .
Furosemide has been shown to inhibit the protein binding of T4 to TBG and albumin , causing an increased free - T4 fraction in serum .
Furosemide competes for T4 - binding sites on TBG , prealbumin , and albumin , so that a single high dose can acutely lower the total T4 level .
Phenytoin and carbamazepine reduce serum protein binding of levothyroxine , and total and free - T4 may be reduced by 20 % to 40 % , but most patients have normal serum TSH levels and are clinically euthyroid .
Closely monitor thyroid hormone parameters .
Table 4 : Drugs That May Alter Hepatic Metabolism of T4 ( Hypothyroidism ) Potential impact : Stimulation of hepatic microsomal drug - metabolizing enzyme activity may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine , resulting in increased TIROSINT - SOL requirements .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Phenobarbital Rifampin Phenobarbital has been shown to reduce the response to thyroxine .
Phenobarbital increases L - thyroxine metabolism by inducing uridine 5 ' - diphospho - glucuronosyltransferase ( UGT ) and leads to a lower T4 serum levels .
Changes in thyroid status may occur if barbiturates are added or withdrawn from patients being treated for hypothyroidism .
Rifampin has been shown to accelerate the metabolism of levothyroxine .
Table 5 : Drugs That May Decrease Conversion of T4 to T3Potential impact : Administration of these enzyme inhibitors decreases the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 , leading to decreased T3 levels .
However , serum T4 levels are usually normal but may occasionally be slightly increased .
Drug or Drug Class Effect Beta - adrenergic antagonists ( e . g . , Propranolol > 160 mg / day ) In patients treated with large doses of propranolol ( > 160 mg / day ) , T3 and T4 levels change , TSH levels remain normal , and patients are clinically euthyroid .
Actions of particular beta - adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when the hypothyroid patient is converted to the euthyroid state .
Glucocorticoids ( e . g . , Dexamethasone ≥ 4 mg / day ) Short - term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30 % with minimal change in serum T4 levels .
However , long - term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production ( See Table 3 above ) .
Other drugs : Amiodarone Amiodarone inhibits peripheral conversion of levothyroxine ( T4 ) to triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and may cause isolated biochemical changes ( increase in serum free - T4 , and decrease or normal free - T3 ) in clinically euthyroid patients .
7 . 2 Antidiabetic Therapy Addition of TIROSINT - SOL therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements .
Carefully monitor glycemic control , especially when thyroid therapy is started , changed , or discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
7 . 3 Oral Anticoagulants TIROSINT - SOL increases the response to oral anticoagulant therapy .
Therefore , a decrease in the dose of anticoagulant may be warranted with correction of the hypothyroid state or when the TIROSINT - SOL dose is increased .
Closely monitor coagulation tests to permit appropriate and timely dosage adjustments .
7 . 4 Digitalis Glycosides TIROSINT - SOL may reduce the therapeutic effects of digitalis glycosides .
Serum digitalis glycoside levels may decrease when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid , necessitating an increase in the dose of digitalis glycosides .
7 . 5 Antidepressant Therapy Concurrent use of tricyclic ( e . g . , amitriptyline ) or tetracyclic ( e . g . , maprotiline ) antidepressants and TIROSINT - SOL may increase the therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs , possibly due to increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines .
Toxic effects may include increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias and central nervous system stimulation .
TIROSINT - SOL may accelerate the onset of action of tricyclics .
Administration of sertraline in patients stabilized on TIROSINT - SOL may result in increased TIROSINT - SOL requirements .
7 . 6 Ketamine Concurrent use of ketamine and TIROSINT - SOL may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia .
Closely monitor blood pressure and heart rate in these patients .
7 . 7 Sympathomimetics Concurrent use of sympathomimetics and TIROSINT - SOL may increase the effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone .
Thyroid hormones may increase the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery disease .
7 . 8 Tyrosine - Kinase Inhibitors Concurrent use of tyrosine - kinase inhibitors such as imatinib may cause hypothyroidism .
Closely monitor TSH levels in such patients .
7 . 9 Drug - Food Interactions Consumption of certain foods may affect TIROSINT - SOL absorption thereby necessitating adjustments in dosing [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Soybean flour ( infant formula ) , cottonseed meal , walnuts , and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption of TIROSINT - SOL from the gastrointestinal tract .
Grapefruit juice may delay the absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its bioavailability .
7 . 10 Drug - Laboratory Test Interactions Consider changes in TBG concentration when interpreting T4 and T3 values .
Measure and evaluate unbound ( free ) hormone and / or determine the free - T4 index ( FT4I ) in this circumstance .
Pregnancy , infectious hepatitis , estrogens , estrogen - containing oral contraceptives , and acute intermittent porphyria increase TBG concentrations .
Nephrosis , severe hypoproteinemia , severe liver disease , acromegaly , androgens and corticosteroids decrease TBG concentration .
Familial hyper - or hypo - thyroxine binding globulinemias have been described , with the incidence of TBG deficiency approximating 1 in 9000 .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pregnancy may require the use of higher doses of TIROSINT - SOL ( 2 . 3 , 8 . 1 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Experience with levothyroxine use in pregnant women , including data from post - marketing studies , have not reported increased rates of major birth defects or miscarriages [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with untreated hypothyroidism in pregnancy .
Since thyroid - stimulating hormone ( TSH ) levels may increase during pregnancy , TSH should be monitored and TIROSINT - SOL dosage adjusted during pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
There are no animal studies conducted with levothyroxine during pregnancy .
TIROSINT - SOL should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of complications , including spontaneous abortion , gestational hypertension , pre - eclampsia , stillbirth , and premature delivery .
Untreated maternal hypothyroidism may have an adverse effect on fetal neurocognitive development .
Dose Adjustments During Pregnancy and the Postpartum Period Pregnancy may increase TIROSINT - SOL requirements .
Serum TSH levels should be monitored and the TIROSINT - SOL dosage adjusted during pregnancy .
Since postpartum TSH levels are similar to preconception values , the TIROSINT - SOL dosage should return to the pre - pregnancy dose immediately after delivery [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Data Human Data Levothyroxine is approved for use as a replacement therapy for hypothyroidism .
There is a long experience of levothyroxine use in pregnant women , including data from post - marketing studies that have not reported increased rates of fetal malformations , miscarriages or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes associated with levothyroxine use in pregnant women .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of levothyroxine on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of levothyroxine on milk production .
Adequate levothyroxine treatment during lactation may normalize milk production in hypothyroid lactating mothers .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for TIROSINT - SOL and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from TIROSINT - SOL or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The initial dose of TIROSINT - SOL varies with age and body weight .
Dosing adjustments are based on an assessment of the individual patient ' s clinical and laboratory parameters [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] .
In children in whom a diagnosis of permanent hypothyroidism has not been established , discontinue TIROSINT - SOL administration for a trial period , but only after the child is at least 3 years of age .
Obtain serum T4 and TSH levels at the end of the trial period , and use laboratory test results and clinical assessment to guide diagnosis and treatment , if warranted .
Congenital Hypothyroidism [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 4 ) ] Rapid restoration of normal serum T4 concentrations is essential for preventing the adverse effects of congenital hypothyroidism on intellectual development as well as on overall physical growth and maturation .
Therefore , initiate TIROSINT - SOL therapy immediately upon diagnosis .
Levothyroxine is generally continued for life in these patients .
Closely monitor infants during the first two weeks of TIROSINT - SOL therapy for cardiac overload , arrhythmias , and aspiration from avid suckling .
Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment and overtreatment .
Undertreatment may have deleterious effects on intellectual development and linear growth .
Overtreatment has been associated with craniosynostosis in infants , and may adversely affect the tempo of brain maturation and accelerate the bone age with resultant premature closure of the epiphyses and compromised adult stature .
Acquired Hypothyroidism in Pediatric Patients Closely monitor patients to avoid undertreatment and overtreatment .
Undertreatment may result in poor school performance due to impaired concentration and slowed mentation and in reduced adult height .
Overtreatment may accelerate the bone age and result in premature epiphyseal closure and compromised adult stature .
Treated children may manifest a period of catch - up growth , which may be adequate in some cases to normalize adult height .
In children with severe or prolonged hypothyroidism , catch - up growth may not be adequate to normalize adult height .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Because of the increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly , initiate TIROSINT - SOL at less than the full replacement dose [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly patients .
Atrial fibrillation is the most common of the arrhythmias observed with levothyroxine overtreatment in the elderly .
10 OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdosage are those of hyperthyroidism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
In addition , confusion and disorientation may occur .
Cerebral embolism , shock , coma , and death have been reported .
Seizures occurred in a 3 - year - old child ingesting 3 . 6 mg of levothyroxine .
Symptoms may not necessarily be evident or may not appear until several days after ingestion of levothyroxine sodium .
Reduce the TIROSINT - SOL dose or discontinue temporarily if signs or symptoms of overdosage occur .
Initiate appropriate supportive treatment as dictated by the patient ' s medical status .
For current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage , contact the National Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or www . poison . org .
11 DESCRIPTION TIROSINT - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution contains synthetic L - 3 , 3 ' , 5 , 5 ' - tetraiodothyronine sodium salt [ levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium ] .
Synthetic T4 is chemically identical to that produced in the human thyroid gland .
Levothyroxine ( T4 ) sodium has an empirical formula of C 15 H 10 I 4 NNaO 4 ∙ x H 2 O ( where x = 5 ) , molecular weight of 798 . 86 g / mol ( anhydrous ) , and structural formula as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] TIROSINT - SOL oral solution is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in a 1 mL white , non - transparent , unit - dose ampule and is available in the following strengths ( mcg / mL ) : 13 , 25 , 37 . 5 , 44 , 50 , 62 . 5 , 75 , 88 , 100 , 112 , 125 , 137 , 150 , 175 , 200 .
The inactive ingredients in TIROSINT - SOL are glycerol and water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Thyroid hormones exert their physiologic actions through control of DNA transcription and protein synthesis .
Triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and L - thyroxine ( T4 ) diffuse into the cell nucleus and bind to thyroid receptor proteins attached to DNA .
This hormone nuclear receptor complex activates gene transcription and synthesis of messenger RNA and cytoplasmic proteins .
The physiological actions of thyroid hormones are produced predominantly by T3 , the majority of which ( approximately 80 % ) is derived from T4 by deiodination in peripheral tissues .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Oral levothyroxine sodium is a synthetic T4 hormone that exerts the same physiologic effect as endogenous T4 , thereby maintaining normal T4 levels when a deficiency is present .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Absorption of orally administered T4 from the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract ranges from 40 % to 80 % .
The majority of the levothyroxine dose is absorbed from the jejunum and upper ileum .
The relative bioavailability of TIROSINT - SOL compared to TIROSINT capsules , is approximately 98 % .
T4 absorption is increased by fasting , and decreased in malabsorption syndromes and by certain foods such as soybeans .
Dietary fiber decreases the bioavailability of T4 .
Absorption may also decrease with age .
In addition , many drugs and foods affect T4 absorption [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Distribution Circulating thyroid hormones are greater than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , including thyroxine - binding globulin ( TBG ) , thyroxine - binding prealbumin ( TBPA ) , and thyroxine - binding albumin ( TBA ) , whose capacities and affinities vary for each hormone .
The higher affinity of both TBG and TBPA for T4 partially explains the higher serum levels , slower metabolic clearance , and longer half - life of T4 compared to T3 .
Protein - bound thyroid hormones exist in reverse equilibrium with small amounts of free hormone .
Only unbound hormone is metabolically active .
Many drugs and physiologic conditions affect the binding of thyroid hormones to serum proteins [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Thyroid hormones do not readily cross the placental barrier [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Elimination Metabolism T4 is slowly eliminated ( see Table 6 ) .
The major pathway of thyroid hormone metabolism is through sequential deiodination .
Approximately 80 % of circulating T3 is derived from peripheral T4 by monodeiodination .
The liver is the major site of degradation for both T4 and T3 , with T4 deiodination also occurring at a number of additional sites , including the kidney and other tissues .
Approximately 80 % of the daily dose of T4 is deiodinated to yield equal amounts of T3 and reverse T3 ( rT3 ) .
T3 and rT3 are further deiodinated to diiodothyronine .
Thyroid hormones are also metabolized via conjugation with glucuronides and sulfates and excreted directly into the bile and gut where they undergo enterohepatic recirculation .
Excretion Thyroid hormones are primarily eliminated by the kidneys .
A portion of the conjugated hormone reaches the colon unchanged and is eliminated in the feces .
Approximately 20 % of T4 is eliminated in the stool .
Urinary excretion of T4 decreases with age .
Table 6 : Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Thyroid Hormones in Euthyroid PatientsHormone Ratio in Thyroglobulin Biologic Potency Half - Life ( Days ) Protein Binding ( % ) [ 1 ] Levothyroxine ( T4 ) 10 – 20 1 6 – 7 [ 2 ] 99 . 96 Liothyronine ( T3 ) 1 4 ≤ 2 99 . 5 [ 1 ] Includes TBG , TBPA and TBA .
[ 2 ] 3 – 4 days in hyperthyroidism , 9 to 10 days in hypothyroidism .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility of levothyroxine sodium .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied TIROSINT - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution is a clear , colorless to slightly yellow solution supplied in a 1 mL white , non - transparent , unit - dose ampule .
The dosage strength is identified on the box and the pouch , and is associated with a distinct color .
Each ampule bears a colored label with the dosage strength and the product name ( TIROSINT - SOL ) .
Table 7 : TIROSINT - SOL Packaging DescriptionStrength ( mcg / mL ) Color [ 1 ] Box NDC ( 30 Unit - Dose Ampules ) Pouch NDC ( 5 Unit - Dose Ampules ) 13 Green 71858 - 0105 - 5 71858 - 0105 - 4 25 Orange 71858 - 0110 - 5 71858 - 0110 - 4 37 . 5 Dark Blue 71858 - 0112 - 5 71858 - 0112 - 4 44 Red 71858 - 0113 - 5 71858 - 0113 - 4 50 White 71858 - 0115 - 5 71858 - 0115 - 4 62 . 5 Grey 71858 - 0117 - 5 71858 - 0117 - 4 75 Purple 71858 - 0120 - 5 71858 - 0120 - 4 88 Olive 71858 - 0125 - 5 71858 - 0125 - 4 100 Yellow 71858 - 0130 - 5 71858 - 0130 - 4 112 Rose 71858 - 0135 - 5 71858 - 0135 - 4 125 Brown 71858 - 0140 - 5 71858 - 0140 - 4 137 Turquoise 71858 - 0145 - 5 71858 - 0145 - 4 150 Blue 71858 - 0150 - 5 71858 - 0150 - 4 175 Lilac 71858 - 0155 - 5 71858 - 0155 - 4 200 Pink 71858 - 0160 - 5 71858 - 0160 - 4 [ 1 ] Shown on box , pouch and ampule .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store TIROSINT - SOL in the original container ( closed pouch ) at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Use TIROSINT - SOL oral solution within three ( 3 ) months after opening the pouch .
Keep the ampules in the pouch until ready to use as important information may be lost ( i . e . , manufacturer / distributor names and distributor contact phone number ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient and / or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Dosing and Administration • Instruct patients to take TIROSINT - SOL only as directed by their healthcare provider .
• Instruct patients to take TIROSINT - SOL one - half to one hour before breakfast .
• Instruct patients about the TIROSINT - SOL dosing instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that agents such as iron and calcium supplements and antacids can decrease the absorption of levothyroxine .
Instruct patients not to take TIROSINT - SOL within 4 hours of these agents .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider should they become pregnant or are thinking of becoming pregnant while taking TIROSINT - SOL .
Important Information • Inform patients that it may take several weeks before they notice an improvement in symptoms .
• Inform patients that the levothyroxine in TIROSINT - SOL is intended to replace a hormone that is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
Generally , replacement therapy is to be taken for life .
• Inform patients that TIROSINT - SOL should not be used as a primary or adjunctive therapy in a weight control program .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are taking any other medications , including prescription and over - the - counter preparations [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider of any other medical conditions , particularly heart disease , diabetes , clotting disorders , and adrenal or pituitary gland problems , as the dose of medications used to control these other conditions may need to be adjusted while taking TIROSINT - SOL .
If they have diabetes , instruct patients to monitor their blood and / or urinary glucose levels as directed by their physician and immediately report any changes to their physician .
If patients are taking anticoagulants , their clotting status should be checked frequently .
• Instruct patients to notify their physician or dentist that they are taking TIROSINT - SOL prior to any surgery .
Adverse Reactions • Instruct patients to notify their healthcare provider if they experience any of the following symptoms : rapid or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shortness of breath , leg cramps , headache , nervousness , irritability , sleeplessness , tremors , change in appetite , weight loss , vomiting , diarrhea , excessive sweating , heat intolerance , fever , changes in menstrual periods , hives or skin rash , or any other unusual medical event .
• Inform patients that partial hair loss may occur rarely during the first few months of TIROSINT - SOL therapy , but this is usually temporary .
Rx Only Manufactured for IBSA Pharma Inc . by : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA 6912 Pazzallo Switzerland Distributed by : IBSA Pharma Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 10 / 2022 PATIENT INFORMATION TIROSINT ® - SOL [ tee - row - sent - sōl ] ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution What is the most important information I should know about TIROSINT - SOL ?
Do not use TIROSINT - SOL to treat weight problems or weight loss .
What is TIROSINT - SOL ?
TIROSINT - SOL is a prescription medicine that contains a hormone called levothyroxine which is normally produced by the thyroid gland .
TIROSINT - SOL is used : • to replace or give extra levothyroxine in people whose thyroid does not produce enough of this hormone ; or • with surgery and radiodine therapy to manage a type of thyroid cancer called thyroid - dependent well - differentiated thyroid cancer .
TIROSINT - SOL should not be used to treat people who are recovering from swelling of the thyroid gland ( thyroiditis ) and whose bodies do not produce enough levothyroxine for a short time .
Do not take TIROSINT - SOL : • if you are allergic to glycerol the inactive ingredient in TIROSINT - SOL ; or • if your adrenal glands are not working well and you have not been treated for this problem .
Before you take TIROSINT - SOL , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or have had heart problems • have or have had thyroid nodules • have adrenal or pituitary gland problems • have any food or drug allergies • have low red blood cell count ( anemia ) • have diabetes • have weak bones ( osteoporosis ) • have or had a history of blood clotting problems • have recently received radiation therapy with iodine ( such as I - 131 ) • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Your doctor may need to change your TIROSINT - SOL dose while you are pregnant .
• are breastfeeding .
TIROSINT - SOL can pass into your milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take TIROSINT - SOL .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you are taking including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
TIROSINT - SOL may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how TIROSINT - SOL works so your doctor may have to adjust the amount of medicines you take .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of medicines that interact with TIROSINT - SOL .
How should I take TIROSINT - SOL ?
• TIROSINT - SOL is for oral use only .
Do not inhale , inject , or place TIROSINT - SOL in the eyes .
• See the detailed " Instructions for Use " that come with TIROSINT - SOL for information on the right way to take your dose of TIROSINT - SOL oral solution .
• Take TIROSINT - SOL exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor will tell you how much TIROSINT - SOL to take each day .
• Your doctor may change your dose , if needed .
• Take your dose of TIROSINT - SOL 1 time each day 30 minutes to 1 hour before breakfast on an empty stomach .
• Certain medicines can interfere with how TIROSINT - SOL is absorbed by your body .
Take TIROSINT - SOL : • at least 4 hours before or after you take medicines that contain calcium carbonate or iron ( ferrous sulfate ) ; and • at least 4 hours before you take medicines that contain bile acid sequestrants or ion exchange resins .
Know the medicines you take .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
• Certain foods including soybean flour , cotton seed meal , walnuts , and dietary fiber can affect your treatment and dose of TIROSINT - SOL .
Talk to your doctor if you eat or drink these foods .
• Do not remove TIROSINT – SOL ampules from the sealed aluminum foil pouch until you are ready to use them .
• Use all 5 TIROSINT - SOL ampules within three ( 3 ) months after opening the aluminum foil pouch .
• Your doctor should do certain blood tests while you are taking TIROSINT - SOL and may change your daily dose of TIROSINT - SOL as needed .
Keep taking TIROSINT - SOL unless your doctor tells you to stop or to change your dose .
It may take weeks before you notice your symptoms getting better .
Keep using this medicine even if you feel well .
If you take too much TIROSINT - SOL , call your doctor , your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of TIROSINT - SOL ?
TIROSINT - SOL may cause serious side effects , including : • heart problems .
You may experience an increased heart rate , chest pain and irregular heartbeat .
Your risk of developing heart problems may be greater if you are elderly , you have heart problems , or you take too much TIROSINT - SOL .
Your doctor may reduce your dose or stop treatment with TIROSINT - SOL for a while if you develop heart problems .
• worsening diabetic control .
If you are diabetic , it may be harder to control your blood sugar levels causing hyperglycemia while taking TIROSINT - SOL .
Check your blood sugar levels closely after starting , changing , or stopping treatment with TIROSINT - SOL .
Your doctor may have to change your diabetes treatment plan .
• weak or brittle bones .
Your risk of developing weak or brittle bones may be greater if you are post - menopausal or you take too much TIROSINT - SOL .
The most common side effects of TIROSINT - SOL include : • fast or irregular heartbeat • chest pain • shortness of breath • leg cramps • headache • nervousness • hives or skin rash • irritability • sleep problems ( insomnia ) • tremors • muscle weakness • change in appetite • weight loss • vomiting • diarrhea • sweating a lot • heat intolerance • fever • changes in menstrual period Other side effects may include partial hair loss during the first months of treatment with TIROSINT - SOL .
This usually lasts a short period of time ( temporary ) .
These are not all the possible side effects of TIROSINT - SOL .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to IBSA Pharma Inc . at 1 - 800 - 587 - 3513 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TIROSINT - SOL ?
• Store TIROSINT - SOL at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Use TIROSINT - SOL within three ( 3 ) months after opening the pouch .
Keep TIROSINT - SOL in the original closed pouch until you are ready to use it as important information may be lost ( i . e . , manufacturer / distributor names and distributor contact phone number .
• Do not store the diluted or mixed TIROSINT - SOL solution .
Keep TIROSINT - SOL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of TIROSINT - SOL Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use TIROSINT - SOL for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TIROSINT - SOL to other people , even if they have the same symptoms as you .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about TIROSINT - SOL that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in TIROSINT - SOL oral solution ?
Active ingredient : levothyroxine sodium Inactive ingredients : glycerol , and water Manufactured by : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA , 6912 Pazzallo , Switzerland Marketed and distributed by : IBSA Pharma Inc , Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA For more information , go to www . tirosintsol . com or call 1 - 800 - 587 - 3513 .
Instructions for Use TIROSINT ® - SOL ( tee - row - sent - sōl ) ( levothyroxine sodium ) oral solution Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking TIROSINT - SOL and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
Important Information : • TIROSINT - SOL is for oral use only .
Do not inhale , inject , or place TIROSINT - SOL in the eyes .
• TIROSINT - SOL can be taken : • by diluting or mixing in water first or • by directly squeezing into the mouth or onto a spoon .
• Do not dilute or mix TIROSINT - SOL with any liquid other than water .
• Open the ampule and prepare the solution right before you take TIROSINT - SOL .
• After you have diluted or mixed TIROSINT - SOL it must be taken or thrown away .
Step 1 .
Open the aluminum pouch by tearing the edge along the dotted line ( See Figure A ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A Step 2 .
Remove 1 ampule from the strip to be used right away ( See Figure B ) .
Return the unused ampules back into the pouch before storing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B Step 3 .
Hold the TIROSINT - SOL ampule upright ( cap on top ) between the first finger and thumb without squeezing the ampule .
Open the ampule by twisting off the top ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Step 4 .
Taking TIROSINT - SOL by diluting or mixing : • Turn the ampule upside down .
• Squeeze the middle , softer part of the ampule between the first finger and thumb slowly to release the liquid medicine into a glass or cup containing water , then release the pressure and wait a few seconds ( See Figure D ) .
• Keeping the ampule upside down , repeat this step for a minimum of 5 times , until no more liquid medicine comes out of the ampule .
• Stir the solution .
• Drink all the liquid medicine right away .
• Rinse the glass or cup with more water and drink to make sure all the medicine has been taken .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D Taking TIROSINT - SOL directly into the mouth or by spoon : • Turn the ampule upside down .
• Squeeze the middle , softer part of the ampule between the first finger and thumb slowly to release the liquid medicine into the mouth or onto a spoon , then release the pressure and wait a few seconds ( See Figure E ) .
• Keeping the ampule upside down , repeat this step for a minimum of 5 times , until no more liquid medicine comes out of the ampule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure E Step 5 .
Throw away ( discard ) the empty ampule .
How should I store TIROSINT - SOL ?
• Store TIROSINT - SOL at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Use TIROSINT - SOL within three ( 3 ) months after opening the pouch .
Keep TIROSINT - SOL in the original closed pouch until you are ready to use it as important information may be lost ( i . e . , manufacturer / distributor names and distributor contact phone number .
• Do not store the diluted or mixed TIROSINT - SOL solution .
Keep TIROSINT - SOL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufacturer : IBSA Institut Biochimique SA , 6912 Pazzallo , Switzerland Marketed and Distributed by : IBSA Pharma Inc . , Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Issued : 10 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 13 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0105 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 13 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 25 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0110 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 25 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 37 . 5 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0112 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 37 . 5 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 44 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0113 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 44 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0115 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 50 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 62 . 5 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0117 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 62 . 5 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 75 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0120 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 75 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 88 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0125 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 88 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0130 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 100 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 112 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0135 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 112 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 125 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0140 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 125 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 137 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0145 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 137 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 150 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0150 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 150 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 175 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0155 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 175 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 200 microgram / mL Ampule Pouch Carton NDC 71858 - 0160 - 5 TIROSINT ® - SOL ( levothyroxine sodium ) Oral Solution 200 microgram / mL For Oral Use Only – NOT for Inhalation , Injection or Ophthalmic Use R x Only 6 pouches x 5 ampules IBSA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
