Rx only FOR TOPICAL DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use .
DESCRIPTION Calcipotriene cream , 0 . 005 % contains calcipotriene , USP , a synthetic vitamin D 3 derivative , for topical dermatological use .
Chemically , calcipotriene , USP is ( 5 Z , 7 E , 22 E , 24 S ) - 24 - cyclopropyl - 9 , 10 - secochola - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 ) , 22 - tetraene - 1α , 3β , 24 - triol , with the empirical formula C 27 H 40 O 3 , a molecular weight of 412 . 62 g / mol and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Calcipotriene , USP is a white or almost white crystalline powder .
Calcipotriene cream , 0 . 005 % contains 50 mcg / g anhydrous calcipotriene , USP in a cream base of benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , ceteth - 20 , cetostearyl alcohol , disodium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate , glycerin , medium chain triglycerides , mineral oil , monosodium phosphate monohydrate , purified water and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In humans , the natural supply of vitamin D depends mainly on exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun for conversion of 7 - dehydrocholesterol to vitamin D 3 ( cholecalciferol ) in the skin .
Calcipotriene is a synthetic analog of vitamin D 3 .
Clinical studies with radiolabelled calcipotriene ointment indicate that approximately 6 % ( ± 3 % , SD ) of the applied dose of calcipotriene is absorbed systemically when the ointment is applied topically to psoriasis plaques , or 5 % ( ± 2 . 6 % , SD ) when applied to normal skin , and much of the absorbed active is converted to inactive metabolites within 24 hours of application .
Systemic absorption of the cream has not been studied .
Vitamin D and its metabolites are transported in the blood , bound to specific plasma proteins .
The active form of the vitamin , 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D 3 ( calcitriol ) , is known to be recycled via the liver and excreted in the bile .
Calcipotriene metabolism following systemic uptake is rapid , and occurs via a similar pathway to the natural hormone .
CLINICAL STUDIES Adequate and well - controlled trials of patients treated with calcipotriene cream have demonstrated improvement usually beginning after 2 weeks of therapy .
This improvement continued with approximately 50 % of patients showing at least marked improvement in the signs and symptoms of psoriasis after 8 weeks of therapy , but only approximately 4 % showed complete clearing .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Calcipotriene cream , 0 . 005 % , is indicated for the treatment of plaque psoriasis .
The safety and effectiveness of topical calcipotriene in dermatoses other than psoriasis have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Calcipotriene cream is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
It should not be used by patients with demonstrated hypercalcemia or evidence of vitamin D toxicity .
Calcipotriene cream should not be used on the face .
WARNINGS Contact dermatitis , including allergic contact dermatitis , has been observed with the use of calcipotriene cream .
PRECAUTIONS General Use of calcipotriene cream may cause transient irritation of both lesions and surrounding uninvolved skin .
If irritation develops , calcipotriene cream should be discontinued .
For external use only .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Always wash hands thoroughly after use .
Reversible elevation of serum calcium has occurred with use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium outside the normal range should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored .
Information for Patients Patients using calcipotriene cream should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used only as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the face or eyes .
As with any topical medication , patients should wash their hands after application .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of adverse reactions .
• Patients that apply calcipotriene cream to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility When calcipotriene was applied topically to mice for up to 24 months at dosages of 3 , 10 and 30 mcg / kg / day ( corresponding to 9 , 30 and 90 mcg / m 2 / day ) , no significant changes in tumor incidence were observed when compared to control .
In a study in which albino hairless mice were exposed to both UVR and topically applied calcipotriene , a reduction in the time required for UVR to induce the formation of skin tumors was observed ( statistically significant in males only ) , suggesting that calcipotriene may enhance the effect of UVR to induce skin tumors .
Patients that apply calcipotriene cream to exposed portions of the body should avoid excessive exposure to either natural or artificial sunlight ( including tanning booths , sun lamps , etc . ) .
Physicians may wish to limit or avoid use of phototherapy in patients that use calcipotriene cream .
Calcipotriene did not elicit any mutagenic effects in an Ames mutagenicity assay , a mouse lymphoma TK locus assay , a human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , or in a micronucleus assay conducted in mice .
Studies in rats at doses up to 54 mcg / kg / day ( 324 mcg / m 2 / day ) of calcipotriene indicated no impairment of fertility or general reproductive performance .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Studies of teratogenicity were done by the oral route where bioavailability is expected to be approximately 40 to 60 % of the administered dose .
Increased rabbit maternal and fetal toxicity was noted at 12 mcg / kg / day ( 132 mcg / m 2 / day ) .
Rabbits administered 36 mcg / kg / day ( 396 mcg / m 2 / day ) resulted in fetuses with a significant increase in the incidences of pubic bones , forelimb phalanges , and incomplete bone ossification .
In a rat study , oral doses of 54 mcg / kg / day ( 318 mcg / m 2 / day ) resulted in a significantly higher incidence of skeletal abnormalities consisting primarily of enlarged fontanelles and extra ribs .
The enlarged fontanelles are most likely due to calcipotriene ' s effect upon calcium metabolism .
The maternal and fetal calculated no - effect exposures in the rat ( 43 . 2 mcg / m 2 / day ) and rabbit ( 17 . 6 mcg / m 2 / day ) studies are approximately equal to the expected human systemic exposure level ( 18 . 5 mcg / m 2 / day ) from dermal application .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , calcipotriene cream should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers There is evidence that maternal 1 , 25 - dihydroxy vitamin D 3 ( calcitriol ) may enter the fetal circulation , but it is not known whether it is excreted in human milk .
The systemic disposition of calcipotriene is expected to be similar to that of the naturally occurring vitamin .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when calcipotriene cream is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of calcipotriene cream in pediatric patients have not been established .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at greater risk than adults of systemic adverse effects when they are treated with topical medication .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of calcipotriene cream , approximately 15 % were 65 or older , while approximately 3 % were 75 and over .
There were no significant differences in adverse events for subjects over 65 years compared to those under 65 years of age .
However , the greater sensitivity of older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials Experience In controlled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse experiences reported for calcipotriene cream , 0 . 005 % were cases of skin irritation , which occurred in approximately 10 to 15 % of patients .
Rash , pruritus , dermatitis and worsening of psoriasis were reported in 1 to 10 % of patients .
Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions associated with the use of calcipotriene cream have been identified post - approval : contact dermatitis , including allergic contact dermatitis .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied calcipotriene can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
Elevated serum calcium has been observed with excessive use of topical calcipotriene .
If elevation in serum calcium should occur , discontinue treatment until normal calcium levels are restored ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin layer of calcipotriene cream to the affected skin twice daily and rub in gently and completely .
The safety and efficacy of calcipotriene cream have been demonstrated in patients treated for eight weeks .
HOW SUPPLIED Calcipotriene cream , 0 . 005 % is available in : NDC 51407 - 605 - 60 60 gram tube ( 1 tube per carton ) NDC 51407 - 605 - 12 120 gram tube ( 1 tube per carton ) STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403513 , India Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma - us . com To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA at 1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
March 2021 Marketed by : GSMS , Incorporated Camarillo , CA 93012 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 gm Carton NDC 51407 - 605 - 12 Calcipotriene Cream , 0 . 005 % 120 gm Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
