0642 - 0075 - 30 Prenatal Supplement with DHA Rx COMPOSITION Each SELECT - OB ® caplet contains : Vitamin A ( as retinyl acetate & beta carotene ) 510 mcg RAE ( 1700 IU ) Vitamin C ( as ascorbic acid ) 60 mg Vitamin D ( as cholecalciferol ) 10 mcg ( 400 IU ) Vitamin E ( as dl - alpha tocopheryl acetate ) 13 . 5 mg ( 30 IU ) Thiamin ( Vitamin B1 as thiamine mononitrate ) 1 . 6 mg Riboflavin ( Vitamin B2 ) 1 . 8 mg Niacin ( as niacinamide ) 15 mg NE Vitamin B6 ( as pyridoxine hydrochloride ) 2 . 5 mg Folate ( as folic acid ) 1700 mcg DFE Vitamin B12 ( as cyanocobalamin ) 5 mcg Iron ( as polysaccharide iron complex ) 29 mg Magnesium ( as magnesium oxide ) 25 mg Zinc ( as zinc oxide ) 15 mg Each softgel capsule contains : Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ( from natural algal oil ) 250 mg Other Ingredients in Select - OB ® caplet : Fructose , Stearic Acid , Mono and Diglycerides , Croscarmellose Sodium , Mixed Berry Flavor WONF , Gelatin ( Porcine ) , Silicon Dioxide , Citric Acid , Magnesium Stearate , Modified Food Starch , Hydroxypropylmethyl Cellulose , Malic Acid , Sucrose , Corn Starch , Dicalcium Phosphate , Sodium Ascorbate , Medium Chain Triglycerides , Sorbic Acid , Tocopherol Concentrate , Sodium Benzoate , dl - Alpha - Tocopherol , Butylated Hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) , Tricalcium Phosphate .
Coating : Hydroxypropylmethyl Cellulose , Titanium Dioxide , Polydextrose , Hydroxypropyl Cellulose , Triacetin , Polyethylene Glycol , FD & C Blue # 1 / Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue # 2 / Aluminum Lake .
Contains : Soy Other Ingredients in DHA softgel capsule : Gelatin , Glycerin USP , Water .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Select - OB + DHA ® is indicated to provide vitamin , mineral , and omega - 3 fatty acid supplementation prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and during the postnatal period for the lactating and non - lactating mother .
* Select - OB + DHA ® does not contain fish , fish oils , fish proteins or fish byproducts .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Select - OB + DHA ® is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to any of its components or color additives .
Folic acid is contraindicated in patients with untreated and uncomplicated pernicious anemia , and in those with anaphylactic sensitivity to folic acid .
Iron therapy is contraindicated in patients with hemochromatosis and patients with iron storage disease or the potential for iron storage disease due to chronic hemolytic anemia ( e . g . , inherited anomalies of hemoglobin structure or synthesis and / or red cell enzyme deficiencies , etc . ) , pyridoxine responsive anemia , or cirrhosis of the liver .
Cyanocobalamin is contraindicated in patients with sensitivity to cobalt or to cyanocobalamin ( vitaminB12 ) .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or a Poison Control Center immediately .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS Select - OB + DHA ® should be used with caution in patients with known sensitivity or allergy to soy .
Vitamin D supplementation should be used with caution in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
High doses of vitamin D can lead to elevated levels of calcium that reside in the blood and soft tissues .
Bone pain , high blood pressure , formation of kidney stones , renal failure , and increased rick of heart disease can occur .
Prolonged use of iron slats may produce iron storage disease .
Folic acid , especially in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily , may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematologic remission may occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
The use of folic acid doses above 1 mg daily may precipitate or exacerbate the neurological damage of vitamin B12 deficiency .
Consumption of more than 3 grams of omega - 3 fatty acids per day from all sources may lead to excessive bleeding .
Supplemental intake of omega - 3 fatty acids such as DHA exceeding 2 grams per day is not recommended .
Avoid overdosage .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of the anticonvulsant drugs .
Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium - containing kidney stones .
Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics ; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions .
Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin - drug interactions .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled to disclose all medical conditions , including use of all medications , vitamins and supplements , pregnancy , and breast - feeding .
Pediatric Use Not for pediatric use .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals , but generally at doses substantially higher than those in Select - OB + DHA ® .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Before , during and after pregnancy , chew or swallow one blue Select OB ® caplet and swallow one DHA softgel capsule daily , or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Select - OB + DHA ® is available as a light blue caplet debossed EV0077 and one amber - colored DHA softgel capsule .
Available in Box of Unit - Dose pack of 30 ( 5 child resistant blister cards of 6 SELECT - OB ® caplets and 6 DHA softgel capsules each ) ( 0642 - 0075 - 30 ) and as professional samples ( 0642 - 0075 - 03 ) .
Store at room temperature , approximately 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) , avoid excessive heat and moisture .
* These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration . This product is not intended to diagnose , treat , cure , or prevent any disease .
Rx Distributed by : Exeltis USA , Inc .
Florham Park , NJ 07932 1 - 877 - 324 - 9349 www . exeltisusa . com © 2023 Exeltis USA , Inc .
All rights reserved .
U . S . Patent No . 7 , 560 , 123 ; 8 , 101 , 587 ; 8 , 197 , 855 ; and 8 , 609 , 629 Select - OB + DHA ® is a trademark of Exeltis Healthcare , S . L . Rev . January 2023 0753001 - 02 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Kit Carton 0642 - 0075 - 30 Select - OB + DHA ® Prenatal Supplement with DHA Berry flavored BLUE Select - OB ® Caplet can be chewed or swallowed DHA Softgel Capsule from natural source DHA Smaller DHA Softgel DOES NOT CONTAIN FISH OIL R X Unit Dose Pack 30 Caplets and 30 Softgel Capsules U . S . Patented [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
