Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if ■ You are a woman ■ Your amount of hair loss is dierent than that shown on the side of this carton , or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % Minozidil Topical Solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
■ You have no family history of hair loss ■ Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy ■ You do not know the reason for your hair loss ■ You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
■ Your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful ■ You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product ■ Do not apply on other parts of the body ■ Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
■ Some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture ■ It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
■ The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for everyone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs ■ Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs ■ Your hands or feet swell ■ Scalp irritation or redness occurs ■ Unwanted facial hair growth occurs ■ You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS ■ Apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the area of hair loss ■ Using more or more often will not improve results ■ Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again .
• See hair loss pictures on side of this carton • Before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
• Hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • In clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 19 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • Store at controlled room temperature between 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or Comments ?
1 ( 800 ) 351 - 6648 Scalp Med 5131 Procyon Street , Las Vegas , NV 89118 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
