Minoxidil 2 % w / v USE Use to regrow hair on the scalp Hair regrowth treatment For external use only .
Flamable : Keep away from fire of flame .
Do not use if : Your degree of hair loss is different than shown on the side of this carton , because this product may not work for you You have no family history of hair loss Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy Your hair loss is associated with childbirth You do not know the reason for your hair loss You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children Your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease WHEN USING THIS PRODUCT • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water • Some people have expereinced changes in hair color and / or texture • It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some women , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results • The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • Chest pain , rapid heart beat , faintness , or dissiness occurs • Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • Your hands of feet swell • Scalp irritation or redness occurs • You do not see hair regrowth in 8 months If pregnant or breast feeding , as a healthcare professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Apply 1 mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area Using more or more ofthen will not improve results Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again OTHER INFORMATION • In clincial studies of mostly white women aged 18 - 45 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , the following responses to 2 % minoxidil topical solution was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using 2 % minoxidil topical solution for 8 months ( 19 % had moderate regrowth ; 40 % had minimal hair regrowth ) .
This compares with the 7 % of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using a placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it , for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth ; 33 % had minimal regrowth ) .
• Store at controlled room temperature 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or Comments ?
• 1 - 877 - 907 - 4047 • Visit Website www . shapiromd . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
