Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of carton ) For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use if • You are a woman • Your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % minoxidil topical solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receeding hairline • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children .
• Your scalp is red , inflammed , infected , irritated , or painful • You use other medicines on your scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• Some people have experienced change in hair color and / or texture .
It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice daily usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • Prime the sprayer by holding the bottle upright and pump the sprayer 5 times to ensure delivery of full spray • Do not inhale Mist • Apply on mL with spray ( 6 sprays ) 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in teh airloss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again OTHER INFORMATION • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 45 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or Comments ?
( 833 ) INTLSHP • Visit Website at intelligent . shop [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
