Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 1 % Antimicrobial Hand cleaner and sanitizer .
Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 months of age .
Do not use on open skin wounds .
Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of eye contact , flush eyes with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or redness develops .
These may be signs of serious condition Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a poison control center right away .
Directions .
Wipe hands thoroughly with wipe .
Discard wipe when it becomes overly soiled or if dry .
Inactive ingredients : Water , Laurtrimonium chloride , Citric acid , Caprylyl / Capryl Glucosides , Glycerine , d - limonene , aloe .
Klean - Them Hand Scrubbing Towels Antimicrobial Action RITE - KEM Convient Heavy Duty Ready to Use Tough Yet Gentle Portable Waterless Hand Cleaner Scrubbing Towel with Dual Texture Soothes , Cleans , and Smooths Hands 60 - 10 . 25 in x 11 . 75 in pre - moistened towels .
Net Contents 18 ounces .
Before using this product please read entire label .
Dispensing / Container Directions : Open dispensing flap in center of Lid .
Lift upward to remove lid .
Feed corner of lid through opening in lid .
Replace lit on tub by pressing downward .
Pull towel upward and outward to remove single towel .
Close flap after each use to avoid drying .
Store at room temperature .
NDC # 73943 - 951 - 01 WWW . RITE - KEM . COM Sold By Rite - Kem , Inc .
703 Westmoreland Drive Tupelo , MS 38801 662 - 840 - 6060 Warning May cause an allergic skin reaction .
WATERLESS CLEANING POWER Cleans the toughest grease , dirt , oils , and the like with or without water .
TOUGH YET GENTLE Heavy duty 3 - D textured scrubbing towels leave hands clean and refreshed .
PORTABLE Easy to carry and keep on hand and close by at the job site .
USE ON EQUIPMENT Wipe down tools .
Use where liquid degreasers are not available or not appropriate HEAVY - DUTY Specially formulated to clean the toughest soils such as tar , asphalt , rubber cement , grease , oil , paint and more .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
