Vanacof DMX NDC 58809 - 850 - 08 8 fl .
Oz .
( 237 mL ) Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 15 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 18 mg ......... Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 396 mg ...................................... Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 10 mg ................
Nasal Decongestant Purpose Cough Suppressant Expectorant Nasal Decongestant Uses ■ temporarily relieves : ■ cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants ■ the intensity of coughing ■ nasal congestion due to a cold ■ the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep ■ helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Warnings Do not use if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have ■ heart disease ■ high blood pressure ■ thyroid disease ■ diabetes ■ a cough that lasts or is chronic such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema ■ a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) ■ difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland When using this product do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ symptoms do not improve within 7 days or are accompanied by a fever , rash or persistent headache .
A persistent cough may be a sign of a serious condition .
■ nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occurs ■ new symptoms occur If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period ■ use enclosed dosage cup or tablespoon ( TBSP ) ■ dose as follows or as directed by a doctor adults and children 12 years of age and over : 15 mL ( 1 TBSP ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 90 mL ( 6 TBSP ) in a 24 hour period .
children 6 to under 12 years of age : 7 . 5 mL ( 1 / 2 TBSP ) every 4 hours , not to exceed 45 mL ( 3 TBSP ) in a 24 hour period .
children under 6 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Other information ■ each 15 mL contains : Sodium 6 mg ■ this packaging is child - resistant .
■ read all product information before using ■ store at 20 ° to 30 ° C ( 68 ° to 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients citric acid , flavors , glycerin , L - menthol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 535 - 0305 9 a . m . - 5 p . m . CST PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 58809 - 850 - 08 VANACOF DMX Raspberry - Mint Flavor 8 fl oz ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
