Leucadia ™ Rx only WARNING Fludarabine phosphate for injection should be administered under the supervision of a qualified physician experienced in the use of antineoplastic therapy .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection can severely suppress bone marrow function .
When used at high doses in dose - ranging studies in patients with acute leukemia , fludarabine phosphate for injection was associated with severe neurologic effects , including blindness , coma , and death .
This severe central nervous system toxicity occurred in 36 % of patients treated with doses approximately four times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than the recommended dose .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate for injection in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine phosphate for injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
DESCRIPTION Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP contains fludarabine phosphate , a fluorinated nucleotide analog of the antiviral agent vidarabine , 9 - β - D - arabinofuranosyladenine ( ara - A ) that is relatively resistant to deamination by adenosine deaminase .
Each vial of sterile lyophilized solid cake contains 50 mg of the active ingredient fludarabine phosphate , USP , 50 mg of mannitol , USP , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 7 . 7 .
The pH range for the final product is 7 . 2 to 8 . 2 .
Reconstitution with 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP results in a solution containing 25 mg per mL of fludarabine phosphate , USP , intended for intravenous administration .
The chemical name for fludarabine phosphate , USP is 9 H - Purin - 6 - amine , 2 - fluoro - 9 - ( 5 - 0 - phosphono - β - D - arabino - furanosyl ) ( 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP ) .
The molecular formula of fludarabine phosphate , USP is C 10 H 13 FN 5 O 7 P ( MW 365 . 2 ) and the structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Fludarabine phosphate is rapidly dephosphorylated to 2 - fluoro - ara - A and then phosphorylated intracellularly by deoxycytidine kinase to the active triphosphate , 2 - fluoro - ara - ATP .
This metabolite appears to act by inhibiting DNA polymerase alpha , ribonucleotide reductase and DNA primase , thus inhibiting DNA synthesis .
The mechanism of action of this antimetabolite is not completely characterized and may be multi - faceted .
Phase I studies in humans have demonstrated that fludarabine phosphate is rapidly converted to the active metabolite , 2 - fluoro - ara - A , within minutes after intravenous infusion .
Consequently , clinical pharmacology studies have focused on 2 - fluoro - ara - A pharmacokinetics .
After the five daily doses of 25 mg 2 - fluoro - ara - AMP / m 2 to cancer patients infused over 30 minutes , 2 - fluoro - ara - A concentrations show a moderate accumulation .
During a 5 - day treatment schedule , 2 - fluoro - ara - A plasma trough levels increased by a factor of about 2 .
The terminal half - life of 2 - fluoro - ara - A was estimated as approximately 20 hours .
In vitro , plasma protein binding of fludarabine ranged between 19 % and 29 % .
A correlation was noted between the degree of absolute granulocyte count nadir and increased area under the concentration x time curve ( AUC ) .
Special Populations Pediatric Patients Limited pharmacokinetic data for fludarabine phosphate for injection are available from a published study of children ( ages 1 to 21 years ) with refractory acute leukemias or solid tumors ( Children ' s Cancer Group Study 097 1 ) .
When fludarabine phosphate for injection was administered as a loading dose over 10 minutes immediately followed by a 5 - day continuous infusion , steady - state conditions were reached early .
Patients with Renal Impairment The total body clearance of the principal metabolite 2 - fluoro - ara - A correlated with the creatinine clearance , indicating the importance of the renal excretion pathway for the elimination of the drug .
Renal clearance represents approximately 40 % of the total body clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Due to insufficient data , fludarabine phosphate for injection should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
CLINICAL STUDIES Two single - arm open - label studies of fludarabine phosphate for injection have been conducted in adult patients with CLL refractory to at least one prior standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
In a study conducted by M . D . Anderson Cancer Center ( MDAH ) , 48 patients were treated with a dose of 22 to 40 mg / m 2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
Another study conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group ( SWOG ) involved 31 patients treated with a dose of 15 to 25 mg / m 2 daily for 5 days every 28 days .
The overall objective response rates were 48 % and 32 % in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
The complete response rate in both studies was 13 % ; the partial response rate was 35 % in the MDAH study and 19 % in the SWOG study .
These response rates were obtained using standardized response criteria developed by the National Cancer Institute CLL Working Group 3 and were achieved in heavily pretreated patients .
The ability of fludarabine phosphate for injection to induce a significant rate of response in refractory patients suggests minimal cross - resistance with commonly used anti - CLL agents .
The median time to response in the MDAH and SWOG studies was 7 weeks ( range of 1 to 68 weeks ) and 21 weeks ( range of 1 to 53 weeks ) respectively .
The median duration of disease control was 91 weeks ( MDAH ) and 65 weeks ( SWOG ) .
The median survival of all refractory CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection was 43 weeks and 52 weeks in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Rai stage improved to Stage II or better in 7 of 12 MDAH responders ( 58 % ) and in 5 of 7 SWOG responders ( 71 % ) who were Stage III or IV at baseline .
In the combined studies , mean hemoglobin concentration improved from 9 . 0 g / dL at baseline to 11 . 8 g / dL at the time of response in a subgroup of anemic patients .
Similarly , average platelet count improved from 63 , 500 / mm 3 to 103 , 300 / mm 3 at the time of response in a subgroup of patients who were thrombocytopenic at baseline .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with B - cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) who have not responded to or whose disease has progressed during treatment with at least one standard alkylating - agent containing regimen .
The safety and effectiveness of Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP in previously untreated or non - refractory patients with CLL have not been established .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Fludarabine phosphate for injection is contraindicated in those patients who are hypersensitive to this drug or its components .
WARNINGS ( See BOXED WARNINGS . )
Dose Dependent Neurologic Toxicities There are clear dose dependent toxic effects seen with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Dose levels approximately 4 times greater ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) than that recommended for CLL ( 25 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days ) were associated with a syndrome characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
Symptoms appeared from 21 to 60 days following the last dose .
Thirteen of 36 patients ( 36 % ) who received fludarabine phosphate for injection at high doses ( 96 mg / m 2 / day for 5 to 7 days ) developed this severe neurotoxicity .
Similar severe central nervous system toxicity , including coma , seizures , agitation and confusion , has been reported in patients treated at doses in the range of the dose recommended for chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
In postmarketing experience neurotoxicity has been reported to occur either earlier or later than in clinical trials ( range 7 to 225 days ) .
The effect of chronic administration of fludarabine phosphate for injection on the central nervous system is unknown ; however , patients have received the recommended dose for up to 15 courses of therapy .
Bone Marrow Suppression Severe bone marrow suppression , notably anemia , thrombocytopenia and neutropenia , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
In a Phase I study in adult solid tumor patients , the median time to nadir counts was 13 days ( range , 3 to 25 days ) for granulocytes and 16 days ( range , 2 to 32 ) for platelets .
Most patients had hematologic impairment at baseline either as a result of disease or as a result of prior myelosuppressive therapy .
Cumulative myelosuppression may be seen .
While chemotherapy - induced myelosuppression is often reversible , administration of fludarabine phosphate for injection requires careful hematologic monitoring .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in adult patients .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Autoimmune Reactions Instances of life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur after one or more cycles of treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection in patients with or without a previous history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia or a positive Coombs ' test and who may or may not be in remission from their disease .
Steroids may or may not be effective in controlling these hemolytic episodes .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate for injection developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
The mechanism ( s ) which predispose patients to the development of this complication has not been identified .
Patients undergoing treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection should be evaluated and closely monitored for hemolysis .
Discontinuation of therapy with fludarabine is recommended in case of hemolysis .
Transfusion Associated Graft - Versus - Host Disease Transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease has been observed after transfusion of nonirradiated blood in fludarabine phosphate for injection treated patients .
Fatal outcome as a consequence of this disease has been reported .
Therefore , to minimize the risk of transfusion - associated graft - versus - host disease , patients who require blood transfusion and who are undergoing , or who have received , treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection should receive irradiated blood only .
Pulmonary Toxicity In a clinical investigation using fludarabine phosphate for injection in combination with pentostatin ( deoxycoformycin ) for the treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) in adults , there was an unacceptably high incidence of fatal pulmonary toxicity .
Therefore , the use of fludarabine phosphate for injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended .
Pregnancy Category D Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate for injection in pregnant women .
Fludarabine administered to rats and rabbits during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformations and decreased fetal body weights .
If fludarabine phosphate for injection is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
Male Fertility and Reproductive Outcomes Males with female sexual partners of childbearing potential should use contraception during and after cessation of fludarabine phosphate for injection therapy .
Fludarabine may damage testicular tissue and spermatozoa .
Possible sperm DNA damage raises concerns about loss of fertility and genetic abnormalities in fetuses .
The duration of this effect is uncertain .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Impairment of Fertility . )
PRECAUTIONS General Fludarabine phosphate for injection is a potent antineoplastic agent with potentially significant toxic side effects .
Patients undergoing therapy should be closely observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity .
Periodic assessment of peripheral blood counts is recommended to detect the development of anemia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
In patients with impaired state of health , fludarabine phosphate for injection should be given with caution and after careful risk / benefit consideration .
This applies especially for patients with severe impairment of bone marrow function ( thrombocytopenia , anemia , and / or granulocytopenia ) , immunodeficiency or with a history of opportunistic infection .
Prophylactic treatment should be considered in patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection may reduce the ability to drive or use machines , since fatigue , weakness , visual disturbances , confusion , agitation and seizures have been observed .
Tumor Cell Lysis Tumor lysis syndrome has been associated with fludarabine phosphate for injection treatment .
This syndrome has been reported in CLL patients with large tumor burden .
Since fludarabine phosphate for injection can induce a response as early as the first week of treatment , precautions should be taken in those patients at risk of developing this complication .
Renal Impairment Fludarabine phosphate for injection must be administered cautiously in patients with renal impairment .
The total body clearance of 2 - fluoro - ara - A has been shown to be directly correlated with creatinine clearance .
Patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min should have their fludarabine phosphate for injection dose reduced and be monitored closely for excessive toxicity .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
In patients aged 65 years or older , creatinine clearance should be measured before start of treatment .
Laboratory Tests During treatment , the patient ' s hematologic profile ( particularly neutrophils and platelets ) should be monitored regularly to determine the degree of hematopoietic suppression .
Drug Interactions The use of fludarabine phosphate for injection in combination with pentostatin is not recommended due to the risk of fatal pulmonary toxicity ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Carcinogenesis No animal carcinogenicity studies with fludarabine phosphate for injection have been conducted .
Mutagenesis Fludarabine phosphate was not mutagenic to bacteria ( Ames test ) or mammalian cells ( HGRPT assay in Chinese hamster ovary cells ) either in the presence or absence of metabolic activation .
Fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vitro to Chinese hamster ovary cells ( chromosome aberrations in the presence of metabolic activation ) and induced sister chromatid exchanges both with and without metabolic activation .
In addition , fludarabine phosphate was clastogenic in vivo ( mouse micronucleus assay ) but was not mutagenic to germ cells ( dominant lethal test in male mice ) .
Impairment of Fertility Studies in mice , rats and dogs have demonstrated dose - related adverse effects on the male reproductive system .
Observations consisted of a decrease in mean testicular weights in mice and rats with a trend toward decreased testicular weights in dogs and degeneration and necrosis of spermatogenic epithelium of the testes in mice , rats and dogs .
The possible adverse effects on fertility in humans have not been adequately evaluated .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category D ( See WARNINGS section . )
Based on its mechanism of action , fludarabine phosphate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of fludarabine phosphate in pregnant women .
Fludarabine phosphate was embryolethal and teratogenic in rats and rabbits .
If fludarabine phosphate for injection is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
In rats , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 2 . 4 times and 7 . 2 times the recommended human IV dose ( 25 mg / m 2 ) administered during organogenesis caused an increase in resorptions , skeletal and visceral malformations ( cleft palate , exencephaly , and fetal vertebrae deformities ) and decreased fetal body weights .
Maternal toxicity was not apparent at 2 . 4 times the human IV dose , and was limited to slight body weight decreases at 7 . 2 times the human IV dose .
In rabbits , repeated intravenous doses of fludarabine phosphate at 3 . 8 times the human IV dose administered during organogenesis increased embryo and fetal lethality as indicated by increased resorptions and a decrease in live fetuses .
A significant increase in malformations including cleft palate , hydrocephaly , adactyly , brachydactyly , fusions of the digits , diaphragmatic hernia , heart / great vessel defects , and vertebrae / rib anomalies were seen in all dose levels ( ≥ 0 . 5 times the human IV dose ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether fludarabine phosphate is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions including tumorigenicity in nursing infants , a decision should be made to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Data submitted to the FDA was insufficient to establish efficacy in any childhood malignancy .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection was evaluated in 62 pediatric patients ( median age 10 , range 1 to 21 ) with refractory acute leukemia ( 45 patients ) or solid tumors ( 17 patients ) .
The fludarabine phosphate for injection regimen tested for pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia ( ALL ) patients was a loading bolus of 10 . 5 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 30 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
In 12 pediatric patients with solid tumors , dose - limiting myelosuppression was observed with a loading dose of 8 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 23 . 5 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
The maximum tolerated dose was a loading dose of 7 mg / m 2 / day followed by a continuous infusion of 20 mg / m 2 / day for 5 days .
Treatment toxicity included bone marrow suppression .
Platelet counts appeared to be more sensitive to the effects of fludarabine phosphate for injection than hemoglobin and white blood cell counts .
Other adverse events included fever , chills , asthenia , rash , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and infection .
There were no reported occurrences of peripheral neuropathy or pulmonary hypersensitivity reaction .
Vaccination During and after treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection , vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided .
Disease Progression Richter ' s syndrome has been reported in CLL patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Very common adverse events include myelosuppression ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia and anemia ) , fever and chills , fatigue , weakness , infection , pneumonia , cough , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
Other commonly reported events include malaise , mucositis and anorexia .
Serious opportunistic infections ( such as latent viral reactivation , herpes zoster virus , Epstein - Barr virus , and progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ) have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Adverse events and those reactions which are more clearly related to the drug are arranged below according to body system .
Hematopoietic Systems Hematologic events ( neutropenia , thrombocytopenia , and / or anemia ) were reported in the majority of CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
During fludarabine phosphate for injection treatment of 133 patients with CLL , the absolute neutrophil count decreased to less than 500 / mm 3 in 59 % of patients , hemoglobin decreased from pretreatment values by at least 2 grams percent in 60 % , and platelet count decreased from pretreatment values by at least 50 % in 55 % .
Myelosuppression may be severe , cumulative , and may affect multiple cell lines .
Bone marrow fibrosis occurred in one CLL patient treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Several instances of trilineage bone marrow hypoplasia or aplasia resulting in pancytopenia , sometimes resulting in death , have been reported in postmarketing surveillance .
The duration of clinically significant cytopenia in the reported cases has ranged from approximately 2 months to approximately 1 year .
These episodes have occurred both in previously treated or untreated patients .
Life - threatening and sometimes fatal autoimmune phenomena such as hemolytic anemia , autoimmune thrombocytopenia / thrombocytopenic purpura ( ITP ) , Evans syndrome , and acquired hemophilia have been reported to occur in patients receiving fludarabine phosphate for injection ( see WARNINGS section ) .
The majority of patients rechallenged with fludarabine phosphate for injection developed a recurrence in the hemolytic process .
In postmarketing experience , cases of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia , mainly associated with prior , concomitant or subsequent treatment with alkylating agents , topoisomerase inhibitors , or irradiation have been reported .
Infections Serious , and sometimes fatal infections , including opportunistic infections and reactivations of latent viral infections such as VZV ( herpes zoster ) , Epstein - Barr virus and JC virus ( progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ) have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Rare cases of Epstein - Barr Virus ( EBV ) associated lymphoproliferative disorders have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
In postmarketing experience , cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy have been reported .
Most cases had a fatal outcome .
Many of these cases were confounded by prior and / or concurrent chemotherapy .
The time to onset has ranged from a few weeks to approximately one year after initiating treatment .
Of the 133 adult CLL patients in the two trials , there were 29 fatalities during study , approximately 50 % of which were due to infection .
Metabolic Tumor lysis syndrome has been reported in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
This complication may include hyperuricemia , hyperphosphatemia , hypocalcemia , metabolic acidosis , hyperkalemia , hematuria , urate crystalluria , and renal failure .
The onset of this syndrome may be heralded by flank pain and hematuria .
Nervous System ( See WARNINGS section . )
Objective weakness , agitation , confusion , seizures , visual disturbances , optic neuritis , optic neuropathy , blindness and coma have occurred in CLL patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection at the recommended dose .
Peripheral neuropathy has been observed in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection and one case of wrist - drop was reported .
There have been additional reports of cerebral hemorrhage though the frequency is not known .
Pulmonary System Pneumonia , a frequent manifestation of infection in CLL patients , occurred in 16 % and 22 % of those treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection in the MDAH and SWOG studies , respectively .
Pulmonary hypersensitivity reactions to fludarabine phosphate for injection characterized by dyspnea , cough and interstitial pulmonary infiltrate have been observed .
In postmarketing experience , cases of severe pulmonary toxicity have been observed with fludarabine phosphate for injection use which resulted in ARDS , respiratory distress , pulmonary hemorrhage , pulmonary fibrosis , pneumonitis and respiratory failure .
After an infectious origin has been excluded , some patients experienced symptom improvement with corticosteroids .
Gastrointestinal System Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting , anorexia , diarrhea , stomatitis and gastrointestinal bleeding and hemorrhage have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Elevations of pancreatic enzyme levels have also been reported .
Cardiovascular Edema has been frequently reported .
One patient developed a pericardial effusion possibly related to treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
There have been additional reports of heart failure and arrhythmia though the frequency is rare .
No other severe cardiovascular events were considered to be drug related .
Genitourinary System Rare cases of hemorrhagic cystitis have been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Skin Skin toxicity , consisting primarily of skin rashes , has been reported in patients treated with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and pemphigus have been reported , with fatal outcomes in some cases .
Neoplasms Worsening or flare up of preexisting skin cancer lesions , as well as new onset of skin cancer , has been reported in patients during or after treatment with fludarabine phosphate for injection .
Hepatobiliary Disorders Elevations of hepatic enzyme levels have been reported .
Data in the following table are derived from the 133 patients with CLL who received fludarabine phosphate for injection in the MDAH and SWOG studies .
PERCENT OF CLL PATIENTS REPORTING NONHEMATOLOGIC ADVERSE EVENTS ADVERSE EVENTS MDAH ( N = 101 ) SWOG ( N = 32 ) ANY ADVERSE EVENT 88 % 91 % BODY AS A WHOLE 72 84 FEVER 60 69 CHILLS 11 19 FATIGUE 10 38 INFECTION 33 44 PAIN 20 22 MALAISE 8 6 DIAPHORESIS 1 13 ALOPECIA 0 3 ANAPHYLAXIS 1 0 HEMORRHAGE 1 0 HYPERGLYCEMIA 1 6 DEHYDRATION 1 0 NEUROLOGICAL 21 69 WEAKNESS 9 65 PARESTHESIA 4 12 HEADACHE 3 0 VISUAL DISTURBANCE 3 15 HEARING LOSS 2 6 SLEEP DISORDER 1 3 DEPRESSION 1 0 CEREBELLAR SYNDROME 1 0 IMPAIRED MENTATION 1 0 PULMONARY 35 69 COUGH 10 44 PNEUMONIA 16 22 DYSPNEA 9 22 SINUSITIS 5 0 PHARYNGITIS 0 9 UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 2 16 ALLERGIC PNEUMONITIS 0 6 EPISTAXIS 1 0 HEMOPTYSIS 1 6 BRONCHITIS 1 0 HYPOXIA 1 0 GASTROINTESTINAL 46 63 NAUSEA / VOMITING 36 31 DIARRHEA 15 13 ANOREXIA 7 34 STOMATITIS 9 0 GI BLEEDING 3 13 ESOPHAGITIS 3 0 MUCOSITIS 2 0 LIVER FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL LIVER FUNCTION TEST 1 3 CHOLELITHIASIS 0 3 CONSTIPATION 1 3 DYSPHAGIA 1 0 CUTANEOUS 17 18 RASH 15 15 PRURITUS 1 3 SEBORRHEA 1 0 GENITOURINARY 12 22 DYSURIA 4 3 URINARY INFECTION 2 15 HEMATURIA 2 3 RENAL FAILURE 1 0 ABNORMAL RENAL FUNCTION TEST 1 0 PROTEINURIA 1 0 HESITANCY 0 3 CARDIOVASCULAR 12 38 EDEMA 8 19 ANGINA 0 6 CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE 0 3 ARRHYTHMIA 0 3 SUPRAVENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA 0 3 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION 0 3 DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS 1 3 PHLEBITIS 1 3 TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK 1 0 ANEURYSM 1 0 CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT 0 3 MUSCULOSKELETAL 7 16 MYALGIA 4 16 OSTEOPOROSIS 2 0 ARTHRALGIA 1 0 TUMOR LYSIS SYNDROME 1 0 More than 3000 adult patients received fludarabine phosphate for injection in studies of other leukemias , lymphomas , and other solid tumors .
The spectrum of adverse effects reported in these studies was consistent with the data presented above .
OVERDOSAGE High doses of fludarabine phosphate for injection ( see WARNINGS section ) have been associated with an irreversible central nervous system toxicity characterized by delayed blindness , coma and death .
High doses are also associated with severe thrombocytopenia and neutropenia due to bone marrow suppression .
There is no known specific antidote for fludarabine phosphate for injection overdosage .
Treatment consists of drug discontinuation and supportive therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Usual Dose The recommended adult dose of fludarabine phosphate for injection is 25 mg / m 2 administered intravenously over a period of approximately 30 minutes daily for five consecutive days .
Each 5 day course of treatment should commence every 28 days .
Dosage may be decreased or delayed based on evidence of hematologic or nonhematologic toxicity .
Physicians should consider delaying or discontinuing the drug if neurotoxicity occurs .
A number of clinical settings may predispose to increased toxicity from fludarabine phosphate for injection .
These include advanced age , renal impairment , and bone marrow impairment .
Such patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
The optimal duration of treatment has not been clearly established .
It is recommended that three additional cycles of fludarabine phosphate for injection be administered following the achievement of a maximal response and then the drug should be discontinued .
Renal Impairment Adjustments to the starting dose are recommended to provide appropriate drug exposure in patients with creatinine clearance 30 to 79 mL / min , as estimated by the Cockroft - Gault equations .
These adjustments are based on a pharmacokinetic study in patients with renal impairment .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min .
Starting Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment Creatinine Clearance Starting Dose ≥ 80 mL / min 25 mg / m 2 ( full dose ) 50 to 79 mL / min 20 mg / m 2 30 to 49 mL / min 15 mg / m 2 < 30 mL / min do not administer Renally impaired patients should be monitored closely for excessive toxicity and the dose modified accordingly .
Preparation of Solutions Fludarabine phosphate for injection should be prepared for parenteral use by aseptically adding Sterile Water for Injection , USP .
When reconstituted with 2 mL of Sterile Water for Injection , USP , the solid cake should fully dissolve in 15 seconds or less ; each mL of the resulting solution will contain 25 mg of fludarabine phosphate , 25 mg of mannitol , and sodium hydroxide to adjust the pH to 7 . 7 .
The pH range for the final product is 7 . 2 to 8 . 2 .
In clinical studies , the product has been diluted in 100 cc or 125 cc of 5 % Dextrose Injection , USP or 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride , USP .
Reconstituted fludarabine phosphate for injection contains no antimicrobial preservative and thus should be used within 8 hours of reconstitution .
Care must be taken to assure the sterility of prepared solutions .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Fludarabine phosphate for injection should not be mixed with other drugs .
Handling and Disposal Procedures for proper handling and disposal should be considered .
Consideration should be given to handling and disposal according to guidelines issued for cytotoxic drugs .
Several guidelines on this subject have been published .
1 - 4 Caution should be exercised in the handling and preparation of fludarabine phosphate for injection solution .
The use of latex gloves and safety glasses is recommended to avoid exposure in case of breakage of the vial or other accidental spillage .
If the solution contacts the skin or mucous membranes , wash thoroughly with soap and water ; rinse eyes thoroughly with plain water .
Avoid exposure by inhalation or by direct contact of the skin or mucous membranes .
HOW SUPPLIED Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP is supplied as follows : NDC Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP Package Factor 24201 - 237 - 01 50 mg Single - Dose Vial 1 vial per carton Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP is supplied as a white , lyophilized solid cake .
Each vial contains 50 mg of fludarabine phosphate , USP , 50 mg of mannitol , USP , and sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to 7 . 7 .
The pH range for the final product is 7 . 2 to 8 . 2 .
Fludarabine Phosphate for Injection , USP is supplied in a clear glass single dose vial ( 6 mL capacity ) and packaged individually .
Storage Conditions Store refrigerated between 2 ° and 8 ° C ( 36 ° and 46 ° F ) .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
REFERENCES • Preventing Occupational Exposures to Antineoplastic and Other Hazardous Drugs in Health Care Settings .
NIOSH Alert 2004 - 165 .
• OSHA Technical Manual , TED 1 - 0 .
15 A , Section VI : Chapter 2 .
Controlling Occupational Exposure to Hazardous Drugs .
OSHA , 1999 .
http : / / www . osha . gov / dts / osta / otm / otm _ vi _ 2 . html • American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2006 : 63 : 1172 - 1193 .
• Polvich , M . , White , J . M . , & Kelleher , L . O . ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice ( 2 nd ed . )
.
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society Leucadia ™ Mfd .
for Leucadia Pharmaceuticals Carlsbad , CA 92011 Made in USA January 2018 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – Vial Label NDC 24201 - 237 - 01 Rx only FLUDARABINE PHOSPHATE FOR INJECTION , USP 50 mg per vial Single - Dose Vial For Intravenous Use Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
