WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years and older [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years and older .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : Pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age experienced higher plasma exposure than patients 6 years and older at the same dose and high rates of adverse reactions , most notably weight loss .
( 8 . 4 ) Limitations of Use Pediatric patients younger than 6 years of age experienced higher plasma exposure than patients 6 years and older at the same dose and high rates of adverse reactions , most notably weight loss [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Recommended starting dose for patients 6 years and older : 10 mg once daily with or without food in the morning .
Dosage may be increased weekly in increments of 10 mg per day .
Daily dosage above 60 mg is not recommended .
( 2 . 1 ) • Capsules may be swallowed whole or opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to treating pediatric patients and adults with CNS stimulants including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 2 ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 General Dosing Information The recommended starting dose of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules for patients 6 years and older is 10 mg once daily in the morning with or without food .
Advise patients to establish a routine pattern with regard to meals .
The dose should be individualized according to the needs and response of the patient .
The dose may be titrated weekly in increments of 10 mg .
Daily doses above 60 mg have not been studied and are not recommended .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may be taken whole or the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto applesauce .
If the patient is using the sprinkled administration method , the sprinkled applesauce should be consumed immediately ; it should not be stored .
Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing .
The dose of a single capsule should not be divided .
The contents of the entire capsule should be taken , and patients should not take anything less than one capsule per day .
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Healthcare providers should periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur ; the dosage should be reduced , or , if necessary , the drug should be discontinued .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • 10 mg Extended - Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body & light turquoise blue opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body Imprinting : 910 .
Cap imprinting : RP • 15 mg Extended - Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and orange cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 915 .
Cap imprinting : RP • 20 mg Extended - Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and yellow opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 920 .
Cap imprinting : RP • 30 mg Extended - Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and blue violet cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 930 .
Cap imprinting : RP • 40 mg Extended - Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and pink opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 940 .
Cap imprinting : RP • 50 mg Extended - Release Capsules - Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and green opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 950 .
Cap Imprinting : RP • 60 mg Extended - Release Capsules Hard Gelatin Capsules , white opaque body and gray opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting : 960 .
Cap imprinting : RP Extended - Release Capsules : 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , 40 mg , 50 mg , and 60 mg of methylphenidate hydrochloride , which is equivalent to 8 . 6 mg , 13 . 0 mg , 17 . 3 mg , 25 . 9 mg , 34 . 6 mg , 43 . 2 mg , and 51 . 9 mg of methylphenidate free base , respectively , per capsule .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other components of the product .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with methylphenidate products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
• Concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors , and also within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor , because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or product components .
( 4 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Events : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Boxed Warning and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses .
Sudden death has been reported in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious heart problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmia , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 bpm ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products , in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
Careful follow - up of weight and height in pediatric patients ages 7 to 10 years who were randomized to either methylphenidate or non - medication treatment groups over 14 months , as well as in naturalistic subgroups of newly methylphenidate - treated and non - medication treated pediatric patients over 36 months ( to the ages of 10 to 13 years ) , suggests that consistently medicated pediatric patients ( i . e . , treatment for 7 days per week throughout the year ) have a temporary slowing in growth rate ( on average , a total of about 2 cm less growth in height and 2 . 7 kg less growth in weight over 3 years ) , without evidence of growth rebound during this period of development .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Abuse and Dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Hypersensitivity to Methylphenidate [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive Crisis with Concomitant Use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - Term Suppression of Growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most common adverse reactions in double - blind clinical trials ( > 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years were abdominal pain , decreased appetite , headache and insomnia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Rhodes Pharmaceuticals L . P . at ( 1 - 888 - 827 - 0616 ) ; or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Other Methylphenidate Products in Children , Adolescents , and Adults with ADHD Commonly reported ( ≥ 2 % of the methylphenidate group and at least twice the rate of the placebo group ) adverse reactions from placebo - controlled trials of methylphenidate products include : decreased appetite , decreased weight , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , dry mouth , vomiting , insomnia , anxiety , nervousness , restlessness , affect lability , agitation , irritability , dizziness , vertigo , tremor , blurred vision , increased blood pressure , increased heart rate , tachycardia , palpitations , hyperhidrosis , and pyrexia .
Clinical Trials Experience with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in Pediatric Patients with ADHD The safety data in this section is based on data from two one - week controlled clinical studies of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in pediatric patients with ADHD , one in children ages 6 to 12 years ( RP - BP - EF001 , hereafter " Study 1 " ) , and one in children and adolescents ages 6 to 17 years ( RP - BP - EF002 , hereafter " Study 2 " ) .
Two Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules clinical studies evaluated a total of 256 patients with ADHD .
Two hundred and forty - three ( 243 ) patients participated in the double - blind phase of these two clinical studies .
Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , single center , placebo - controlled , flexible - dose , cross - over study to evaluate the time of onset , duration of efficacy , tolerability and safety of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , or 40 mg administered for one week in 26 pediatric patients aged 6 to 12 years who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of ≥ 5 % and at a rate at least twice placebo ) : abdominal pain , pyrexia and headache .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation : No subjects discontinued due to adverse reactions during the double - blind phase of this study .
Study 2 was a randomized , double - blind , multicenter , placebo - controlled , parallel group , fixed - dose study of 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules administered for one week in 221 pediatric patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) who met DSM - IV criteria for ADHD [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Most Common Adverse Reactions ( incidence of ≥ 5 % and at a rate of at least twice placebo ) : abdominal pain , decreased appetite , headache and insomnia .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation : Two patients ( 4 . 4 % ) in the Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 40 mg group discontinued due to insomnia , nausea and rapid heart rate , respectively during the double - blind phase of the study .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 2 % of Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) with ADHD Taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules and at a Rate Greater than Placebo ( Study 2 ) System Organ Class Adverse Reaction Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ( n = 183 ) Placebo ( n = 47 ) Nervous System Disorders Headache 10 . 9 % 8 . 5 % Insomnia 9 . 8 % 2 . 1 % Dizziness 2 . 2 % 2 . 1 % Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain upper 8 . 2 % 0 % Nausea 3 . 8 % 2 . 1 % Vomiting 3 . 8 % 0 % Metabolism and Nutritional Decreased Appetite 4 . 9 % 0 % 6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of methylphenidate products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are as follows : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : Pancytopenia , Thrombocytopenia , Thrombocytopenic purpura Cardiac Disorders : Angina pectoris , Bradycardia , Extrasystole , Supraventricular tachycardia , Ventricular extrasystole Eye Disorders : Diplopia , Mydriasis , Visual impairment General Disorders : Chest pain , Chest discomfort , Hyperpyrexia Immune System Disorders : Hypersensitivity reactions such as Angioedema , Anaphylactic reactions , Auricular swelling , Bullous conditions , Exfoliative conditions , Urticarias , Pruritus NEC , Rashes , Eruptions , and Exanthems NEC Investigations : Alkaline phosphatase increased , Bilirubin increased , Hepatic enzyme increased , Platelet count decreased , White blood cell count abnormal , severe hepatic injury Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : Arthralgia , Myalgia , Muscle twitching , Rhabdomyolysis Nervous System : Convulsion , Grand mal convulsion , Dyskinesia , serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs Psychiatric Disorders : Disorientation , Libido changes Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Alopecia , Erythema 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Antihypertensive drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed ( 7 ) .
7 . 1 Clinically Important Interactions with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Do not administer Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules concomitantly or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment .
Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Antihypertensive Drugs Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension .
Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug as needed [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Risperidone Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
Risk Summary Limited published studies report on the use of methylphenidate in pregnant women ; however , the data are insufficient to inform any drug - associated risks .
No effects on morphological development were observed in embryo - fetal development studies with oral administration of methylphenidate to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to 10 and 15 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
However , spina bifida was observed in rabbits at a dose 52 times the MRHD given to adolescents .
A decrease in pup body weight was observed in a pre - and post - natal development study with oral administration of methylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at the highest dose of 60 mg / kg / day ( 6 times the MRHD given to adolescents ) [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population are unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions CNS stimulants , such as Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 75 and 200 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
Malformations ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) were observed in rabbits at the highest dose , which is approximately 52 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rabbits was 60 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of morphological development effects in rats , although increased incidences of fetal skeletal variations were seen at the highest dose level ( 10 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) , which was also maternally toxic .
The no effect level for embryo - fetal development in rats was 25 mg / kg / day ( 2 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
When methylphenidate was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 45 mg / kg / day , offspring body weight gain was decreased at the highest dose ( 6 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) , but no other effects on postnatal development were observed .
The no effect level for pre - and postnatal development in rats was 15 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 5 times the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published literature , based on breast milk sampling from five mothers , reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
However , long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in pediatric patients under 6 years have not been established .
Safety and efficacy of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules were evaluated in a multicenter , placebo - controlled , double - blind , parallel group study in 119 children 4 to < 6 years of age with ADHD followed by a 12 - month open - label extension in 44 of these children .
In these studies , patients experienced high rates of adverse reactions , most notably weight loss .
Comparing weights prior to initiation of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ( in the safety and efficacy study ) to weights after 12 months of treatment ( in the open - label extension ) , 20 of 39 patients with data ( 50 % ) had lost enough weight to decrease 10 or more percentiles on a Centers for Disease Control growth chart for weight .
In addition , systemic drug exposures in patients 4 to < 6 years of age were higher than those observed in older children and adolescents at the same dose ( 2 to 3 fold higher Cmax and AUC ) .
Therefore , the benefits of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules do not outweigh the risks in pediatric patients 4 to < 6 years of age .
The safety and effectiveness of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules have been established in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years in two adequate and well - controlled clinical trials [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established .
Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 6 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
In the study conducted in young rats , methylphenidate was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal weeks 13 - 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 times the MRHD of 60 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females exposed to the highest dose ( 8 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day ( approximately 0 . 5 times the MRHD given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules did not include any patients aged 65 years and over .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient start at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules contains methylphenidate a Schedule II controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is characterized by impaired control over drug use despite harm , and craving .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Abusers of CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of CNS stimulants including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules use .
9 . 3 Dependence Tolerance Tolerance ( a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ' s desired and / or undesired effects over time ) can occur during chronic therapy with CNS stimulants including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Dependence Physical dependence ( a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist ) can occur in patients treated with CNS stimulants including Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include extreme fatigue and depression .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdose , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring .
Treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug .
Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdosages .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
Use supportive and symptomatic measures .
Gastric contents may be evacuated by gastric lavage as indicated .
Before performing gastric lavage , control agitation and seizures if present and protect the airway .
Other measures to detoxify the gut include administration of activated charcoal and a cathartic .
Intensive care must be provided to maintain adequate circulation and respiratory exchange ; external cooling procedures may be required for pyrexia .
11 DESCRIPTION Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules contains methylphenidate hydrochloride , a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules contain multi layered beads , which are composed of an immediate - release layer which contains approximately 40 % of the methylphenidate dose , and a controlled release layer which contains approximately 60 % of the methylphenidate dose .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is available in seven capsule strengths .
Each extended - release capsule for once - a - day oral administration contains 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , 40 mg , 50 mg , or 60 mg of methylphenidate HCl USP , which is equivalent to 8 . 6 mg , 13 . 0 mg , 17 . 3 mg , 25 . 9 mg , 34 . 6 mg , 43 . 2 mg , or 51 . 9 mg of methylphenidate free base , respectively .
Chemically , methylphenidate HCl is d , l ( racemic ) methyl α - phenyl - 2 - piperidineacetate hydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C14H19NO2 ∙ HCl .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Methylphenidate hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white , odorless , fine crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Its molecular weight is 269 . 77 .
Inactive Ingredients : ammonio methacrylate copolymer , type B ; colloidal silicon dioxide ( added if necessary ) ; gelatin ; hypromelloses ; methacrylic acid copolymer , type C ; polyethylene glycol ; sugar spheres ; talc ; titanium oxide ; and triethyl citrate .
Each strength capsule also contains colorant ingredients in the capsule shell as follows : 10 mg : FD & C Blue No . 1 15 mg : D & C Red No . 28 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Red No . 40 20 mg : D & C Red No . 33 , D & C Yellow No . 10 30 mg : FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 3 40 mg : D & C Red No . 28 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 50 mg : D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Green No . 3 60 mg : Black Iron Oxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Methylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d - and l - isomers .
The d - isomer is more pharmacologically active than the l - isomer .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in adults , plasma methylphenidate concentrations increase rapidly , reaching an initial maximum at about 2 hours , followed by gradual descending concentrations over the next 4 to 6 hours , after which a gradual increase begins , reaching a second peak at approximately 8 hours ( Figure 1 ) .
The relative bioavailability of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules given once daily as compared to a methylphenidate immediate - release oral product given three times daily in adults is comparable .
The relative bioavailability is 102 % .
The pharmacokinetic profiles and parameters of methylphenidate are similar when Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is administered either as a whole capsule or sprinkled onto applesauce in subjects under fasting conditions ( see Table 2 and Figure 1 ) .
Table 2 : The Single Dose Pharmacokinetics of d , l - Methylphenidate [ 1 ] ER Capsule and Sprinkle following an Oral Dose of 80 mg Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules under Fasted Conditions in Healthy AdultsPharmacokinetic Parameters Capsule Sprinkle Cmax [ 2 ] ( ng / mL ) 23 . 47 ± 11 . 4 21 . 78 ± 9 . 5 AUC ( 0 - t ) null ( ng . hr / mL ) 262 . 7 ± 135 262 . 9 ± 128 AUC ( 0 - inf ) null ( ng . hr / mL ) 258 . 1 ± 94 . 2 258 . 0 ± 84 . 4 Tmax ( hr ) [ 3 ] 2 . 0 2 . 0 Half - life ( hr ) 5 . 09 5 . 43 Relative bioavailability 102 % 101 % [ 1 ] d , l ( racemic ) methylphenidate HCl [ 2 ] Cmax , AUC ( 0 - t ) AUC ( 0 - inf ) presented as mean ± SD [ 3 ] data presented as median ( range ) Figure 1 : Mean d , l - Methylphenidate Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles following 80 mg Administered as Capsule and Sprinkle Dose in Healthy Adults [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metabolism and Excretion In humans , methylphenidate is metabolized primarily via deesterification to alpha - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( PPAA ) .
The metabolite has little or no pharmacologic activity .
After oral dosing of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite was PPAA , accounting for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Food Effects Administration of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules with high fat meal showed a decreased or diminished second peak .
A high - fat meal also increased the average Cmax of methylphenidate by about 28 % and the AUC by about 19 % .
In the clinical trials of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , it was administered without regard to meals .
Alcohol Effect At an alcohol concentration up to 40 % , there was 96 % release of methylphenidate from Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 80 mg within two hours .
The results with the 80 mg capsule are considered to be representative of the other available capsules strengths .
Studies in Specific Populations Gender There is insufficient experience with the use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to detect gender variations in pharmacokinetics .
Race There is insufficient experience with the use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Age The pharmacokinetics of methylphenidate after Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules administration was studied in pediatric patients with ADHD between 6 and 12 years of age .
Following administration of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , the bi - phasic plasma methylphenidate concentration profile was qualitatively similar in healthy adult volunteers and pediatric patients with ADHD .
The bi - phasic profile in both groups is characterized by an early peak due to rapid absorption of the immediate - release component followed by a delayed , secondary peak due to the controlled - release component of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Renal Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in patients with renal insufficiency .
After oral administration of radiolabeled methylphenidate in humans , methylphenidate was extensively metabolized and approximately 80 % of the radioactivity was excreted in the urine in the form of ritalinic acid metabolite .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of methylphenidate clearance , renal insufficiency is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Hepatic Insufficiency There is no experience with the use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas and , in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas , at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg / day given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Methylphenidate did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 4 times the MRHD ( children ) on a mg / m2 basis .
Mutagenesis Methylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay or in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay .
Sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response , in an in vitro assay in cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells .
Methylphenidate was negative in vivo in males and females in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Methylphenidate did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week Continuous Breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses of up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 times the maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg / day given to adolescents on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules for the treatment of ADHD was established in a randomized , double - blind , single center , placebo - controlled , flexible - dose , cross - over trial in pediatric patients aged 6 to 12 years and a second randomized , double - blind , multicenter , placebo - controlled , fixed – dose trial in pediatric patients 6 to 17 years .
Pediatric Patients A randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , flexible - dose , cross - over , analog classroom study ( Study 1 ) was conducted in pediatric patients ages 6 to 12 years ( N = 26 ) who met DSM - IV - TR criteria for ADHD inattentive , hyperactive - impulsive or combined inattentive / hyperactive - impulsive subtypes .
Following a 2 to 4 week open - label dose optimization phase in which patients received flexible - dose Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg , 20 mg , 30 mg , or 40 mg administered once daily in the morning , patients were randomly assigned to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ( dose from open - label phase ) or placebo .
After 1 - week of treatment , patients were evaluated over a period of 12 hours .
Subsequently , patients were given the opposite treatment for 1 - week and returned for the second evaluation .
Patients could then enter an open - label extension phase for up to 21 months .
Efficacy assessments were conducted at 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . 5 , 6 , 7 . 5 , 9 , 10 . 5 and 12 hours post - dose using the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M . Flynn , and Pelham Total score ( SKAMP ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the average SKAMP Total Score , comparing Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to placebo .
SKAMP is a validated 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
The SKAMP Total Scores were statistically significantly better ( lower ) for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules than for placebo at the test day average and at all time points ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 . 5 , 6 , 7 . 5 , 9 , 10 . 5 and 12 hours ) post - dosing ( see Figure 2 ) .
Figure 2 : Absolute SKAMP - Total Score after treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules or Placebo ( Study 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] A randomized , double - blind , multicenter , placebo - controlled , parallel - group , fixed - dose study ( Study 2 ) was conducted in pediatric patients age 6 to 17 years ( N = 230 ) who met DSM - IV - TR criteria for ADHD inattentive , hyperactive - impulsive or combined inattentive / hyperactive - impulsive subtypes .
The ADHD - RS - IV is an 18 - item questionnaire with a score range of 0 to 54 points that measures the core symptoms of ADHD and includes both hyperactive / impulsive and inattentive subscales .
Patients were randomized to a daily morning dose of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg , or placebo for 1 week .
An 11 - week open label phase followed the double - blind phase .
Patients could then enter another open - label phase for up to 21 months .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean decrease from baseline to the end of Week 1 in the ADHD - RS - IV Total Score .
Each of the four Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules doses ( 10 mg , 15 mg , 20 mg , and 40 mg / day ) was compared to placebo at the end of week 1 .
For both the 20 mg / day and the 40 mg / day doses , Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules was superior to placebo in reduction of the ADHD - RS - IV Total Score , but not for the 10 mg / day or the 15 mg / day doses .
A total of 221 patients completed the 1 - week double - blind phase .
Among those , 200 ( 90 . 5 % ) completed the 11 - week open label phase and 173 ( 86 . 5 % ) patients continued into the 21 - month open - label extension phase .
Table 3 : Summary of Parallel - Group StudyStudy Number Treatment Group Primary Efficacy Measure : ADHD - RS - IV Total Score Mean Baseline Score ( SD ) LS Mean Reduction from Baseline ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Difference [ 1 ] ( 95 % CI ) Note : SD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval , not adjusted for multiple comparisons .
Study 2 ( Pediatric ) Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 10 mg / day 37 . 6 ( 8 . 32 ) 9 . 1 ( 1 . 40 ) 3 . 7 ( - 0 . 31 , 7 . 66 ) Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg / day 38 . 0 ( 8 . 64 ) 10 . 3 ( 1 . 59 ) 4 . 9 ( 0 . 63 , 9 . 07 ) Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 20 mg / day [ 2 ] 36 . 2 ( 8 . 46 ) 11 . 4 ( 1 . 49 ) 6 . 0 ( 1 . 92 , 10 . 02 ) Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 40 mg / day null 35 . 6 ( 9 . 16 ) 12 . 8 ( 1 . 49 ) 7 . 4 ( 3 . 38 , 11 . 45 ) Placebo 33 . 4 ( 11 . 01 ) 5 . 4 ( 1 . 48 ) -- [ 1 ] Difference ( placebo minus drug ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
Positive numbers indicate reduction ( improvement ) .
[ 2 ] Doses that are demonstrated to be effective .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules are available as follows : 10 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body & light turquoise blue opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body Imprinting " 910 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 075 - 45 15 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and orange cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 915 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 076 - 45 20 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and yellow opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 920 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 077 - 45 30 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and blue violet cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 930 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 078 - 45 40 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and pink opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 940 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 079 - 45 50 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and green opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 950 " .
Cap Imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 080 - 45 60 mg Extended - Release Capsules - white opaque body and gray opaque cap containing white spherical beads .
Body imprinting " 960 " .
Cap imprinting " RP " Bottles of 90 NDC 42858 - 081 - 45 Storage and Handling Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules should be stored at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules by a medicine takeback program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / High Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is a controlled substance , and it can be abused and lead to dependence .
Instruct patients that they should not give Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to anyone else .
Advise patients to store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules by a medicine take - back program if available [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , and 9 . 3 ) ] .
Dosage and Administration Instructions Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can be taken with or without food and that they should establish a routine pattern of taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules with regard to meals .
For patients who take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules sprinkled over applesauce , the contents of the entire capsule should be consumed immediately ; it should not be stored .
Patients should take the applesauce with sprinkled beads in its entirety without chewing .
When initiating treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , provide dosage escalation and administration instructions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients that there is a potential serious cardiovascular risk including sudden death , myocardial infarction , stroke , and hypertension with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules use .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Instruct patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can cause elevations of their blood pressure and pulse rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without prior history of psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct them to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation problems in fingers and toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ] Instruct patients beginning treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change from pale , to blue , to red .
Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients that Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Alcohol Advise patients to avoid alcohol while taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Consumption of alcohol while taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may result in a more rapid release of the dose of methylphenidate [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Marketed by : Rhodes Pharmaceuticals L . P . Coventry , RI 02816 Manufactured by : Patheon Manufacturing Services LLC Greenville , North Carolina 27834 This product is covered by US patents including US Patents No . 6 , 419 , 960 , 7 , 083 , 808 , 7 , 247 , 318 , 8 , 580 , 310 , 9 , 066 , 869 and 9 , 801 , 823 .
305286 - 0 B Revised : 06 / 2021 MEDICATION GUIDE Methylphenidate ( METH - il - FEN - i - date ) Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , CII This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : 06 / 2019 What is the most important information I should know about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can cause serious side effects , including : • Abuse and dependence .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , other methylphenidate containing medicines , and amphetamines have a high chance for abuse and can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Your healthcare provider should check you or your child for signs of abuse and dependence before and during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
• Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Heart - related problems , including : • sudden death , stroke , and heart attack in adults • sudden death in children who have heart problems or heart defects • increased blood pressure and heart rate Your healthcare provider should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these problems .
Your doctor should check you or your child ' s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Call your healthcare provider or go the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you or your child have any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
• Mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , or seeing or believing things that are not real ) or new manic symptoms Tell your healthcare provider about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , especially hearing voices , seeing or believing things that are not real , or new manic symptoms .
What is Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in people 6 years of age and older .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in people with ADHD .
• Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is not for use in children under 6 years of age .
• Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains methylphenidate that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give your Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to anyone else , because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules may harm others and is against the law .
Do not take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules if you or your child are : • allergic to methylphenidate hydrochloride or any of the ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
• taking or have stopped taking within the past 14 days a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Before taking Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules tell your healthcare provider about all medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • have mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression , or have a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression • have circulation problems in fingers and toes • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules will harm your unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules passes into breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed the baby during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines that you or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be changed during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Your healthcare provider will decide whether Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child take a medicine used to treat depression called monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Know the medicines that you or your child take .
Keep a list of the medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules be taken ?
• Take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules exactly as prescribed by your healthcare provider .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose if needed .
• Take Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules by mouth 1 time each day in the morning .
• Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can be taken with or without food but take it the same way each time .
• Swallow Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules whole , or if Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules cannot be swallowed whole , the capsules may be opened and sprinkled onto a tablespoonful of applesauce .
Make sure to sprinkle all the medicine onto the applesauce .
The Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules dose should not be divided .
• swallow all the applesauce and medicine mixture without chewing right away or within 10 minutes • do not chew the applesauce and medicine mixture • do not store applesauce and medicine mixture • Your healthcare provider may sometimes stop Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
• If a dose of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules is missed , do not take the dose later in the day or take an extra dose to make up for the missed dose , wait until the next morning to take the next scheduled dose .
• In case of poisoning call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should be avoided during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Avoid drinking alcohol during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
This may cause a faster release of the Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules medicine .
What are possible side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules can cause serious side effects , including : See " What is the most important information I should know about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ? "
• Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) .
Priapism has happened in males who take products that contain methylphenidate .
If you or your child develop priapism , get medical help right away .
• Circulation problems in fingers and toes ( peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ) .
Signs and symptoms may include : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your healthcare provider if you have or your child have numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have or your child have any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children .
Children should have their height and weight checked often during treatment with Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules treatment may be stopped if your child is not growing or gaining weight .
The most common side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in children 6 to 17 years of age include stomach pain , decreased appetite , headache , trouble sleeping .
These are not all the possible side effects of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Rhodes Pharmaceuticals L . P . at 1 - 888 - 827 - 0616 .
How should I store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
• Store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Store Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in a safe place , like a locked cabinet .
Protect from moisture .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules by a medication take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules in the household trash .
Keep Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms .
It may harm them and it is against the law .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Active Ingredient : methylphenidate hydrochloride Inactive Ingredients : ammonio methacrylate copolymer , type B ; colloidal silicon dioxide ( added if necessary ) ; gelatin ; hypromelloses ; methacrylic acid copolymer , type C ; polyethylene glycol ; sugar spheres ; talc ; titanium oxide ; and triethyl citrate .
Manufactured by : Patheon Manufacturing Services LLC , Greenville , North Carolina 27834 For more information call Rhodes Pharmaceuticals L . P . ( the distributor for Methylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ) at 1 - 888 - 827 - 0616 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 075 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 10 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 15 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 076 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 077 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 20 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 078 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 30 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 079 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 40 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 080 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 50 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 mg Capsule Bottle Label NDC 42858 - 081 - 45 CII Methylphenidate HCl Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg Dispense the accompanying Medication Guide to each patient .
Rhodes Rx only Once Daily 90 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
