[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ARZOL ® Silver Nitrate Applicators Silver Nitrate 75 % Potassium Nitrate 25 % for Simplified Silver Nitrate Therapy ARZOL Silver Nitrate Applicators provide a simple and convenient means of treating small lesions of the skin and mucous membranes .
On contact with living tissue , silver nitrate acts as an escharotic .
Deep action is avoided by the formation of a dense surface film of coagulated albumin .
Silver nitrate is a powerful chemical germicide .
Despite precipitation , it retains substantial germicidal potency even in the presence of large quantities of albuminous material , possibly by gradually redissolving the silver .
SPECIAL PROPERTIES The combination of silver nitrate with potassium nitrate has been called toughened silver nitrate , also lunar caustic .
When the tip of the applicator is impregnated with this compound , as in ARZOL , the silver nitrate can be applied quickly and conveniently to the precise area to be treated without spread of the escharotic to adjacent healthy tissues .
Exposure to light causes the silver in the tip to oxidize and turn brown in color .
This discoloration does not affect the therapeutic action of the tip and the oxidized film readily dissolves when dipped in water .
Moisture has a deteriorating effect on the tip .
It may cause it to break or loosen from the applicator ; therefore the applicators should be kept in a dry place .
CAUTION : Silver Nitrate is a caustic compound , the improper use of which may cause chemical burns .
Silver Nitrate mixes with body fluids ; this mixture is caustic and tissue damage may result if not removed quickly .
Contact of Silver Nitrate applicators on neonates ( as in use on the umbilicus ) and on thin delicate skin should be extremely short in duration .
INDICATIONS On the skin , applications of silver nitrate are recommended for cauterization of wounds and sluggish ulcers , also for removal of granulation tissue and warts .
On mucous membranes , silver nitrate may be applied to small ulcers and aphthae in the mouth resulting from injury or stomatitis , to infected tonsils , to rectal fissures and fistulae , and to vaginal or cervical ulcerations or erosions .
Epistaxis may be controlled by direct application to the site of hemorrhage within the nostrils .
APPLICATION ARZOL may be applied direct to mucous membranes and other moist surfaces .
In the case of dry skin , the applicator tip should be dipped in water immediately before use .
Apply carefully to the area to be treated .
DO NOT USE ON THE EYES .
SIDE EFFECTS Silver nitrate blackens the tissues to which it is applied but this discoloration gradually disappears .
In the case of applicators , poisoning from ingestion is rare .
ANTIDOTE In case of accidental poisoning , follow these directions : External : Eye Exposure -- First : Wash out the eye with lukewarm water for at least fifteen ( 15 ) minutes then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
Skin Exposure -- First : Wash the area very thoroughly with soap and water then call your physician .
Internal : First : Give one ( 1 ) glass of milk or water then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
HAZARDS Long continued applications to large areas may produce argyria , a slate - blue discoloration of the skin and mucous membranes .
AVAILABILITY ARZOL Silver Nitrate Applicators are supplied in boxes of 100 containing 10 packets each with 10 applicators ; also , in plastic tubes containing 100 applicators .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Arzol ® Silver Nitrate Applicators Silver Nitrate 75 % Potassium Nitrate 25 % FOR SIMPLIFIED SILVER NITRATE THERAPY POISON CAUTION : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Do not open this box or dispense packets or applicators separately .
WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
Keep in dry and dark place .
Do not use on the eyes .
100 APPLICATORS ANTIDOTE In case of accidental poisoning , follow these directions .
EXTERNAL - EYE EXPOSURE : FIRST : Wash out the eye with lukewarm water for at least fifteen ( 15 ) minutes THEN : call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
SKIN EXPOSURE : FIRST : Wash the areas very thoroughly with soap and water THEN : call your physician .
INTERNAL : FIRST : Give one ( 1 ) glass of milk or water THEN : call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
STABILITY PRECAUTIONS Light causes the silver in the tip to oxidize and turn brown in color .
This does not affect the therapeutic action of the tip and the oxidized film readily dissolves when dipped in water .
Moisture has a deteriorating effect on the tip .
It will cause the tip to break or loosen from the applicator ; therefore the applicators should be kept in a dry and dark place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ARZOL ® Silver Nitrate Applicators ( Silver Nitrate 75 % ) ( Potassium Nitrate 25 % ) for Simplified Silver Nitrate Therapy POISON TEN ( 10 ) applicators Caution : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Do not dispense packets or applicators separately .
Warning : Do not use on the eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep in a dry and dark place .
NOT FOR RESALE ANTIDOTE In case of accidental poisoning , follow these directions : External : Eye Exposure : First : Wash out the eye with lukewarm water for at least fifteen ( 15 ) minutes then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
Skin Exposure : First : Wash the area very thoroughly with soap and water then call your physician .
Internal : First : Give one ( 1 ) glass of milk or water then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
Stability Precautions Light causes the silver in the tip to oxidize and turn brown in color .
This does not affect the therapeutic action of the tip and the oxidized film readily dissolves when dipped in water .
Moisture has a deteriorating effect on the tip .
It will cause the tip to break or loosen from the applicator ; therefore the applicators should be kept in a dry and dark place .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] ARZOL Silver Nitrate Applicators Silver Nitrate 75 % Potassium Nitrate 25 % For Simplified Silver Nitrate Therapy Caution : Federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription .
Do not open this tube or dispense applicators separately .
Warning : Do not use on the eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep in a dry and dark place .
POISON In case of accidental poisoning , follow these directions : ANTIDOTE External : Eye Exposure : First : Wash out the eye with lukewarm water for at least fifteen ( 15 ) minutes then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
Skin Exposure : First : Wash the area very thoroughly with soap and water then call your physician .
Internal : First : Give one ( 1 ) glass of milk or water then call your physician or go to your nearest Emergency Room .
