WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY Do not administer ambrisentan to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm .
Ambrisentan is very likely to produce serious birth defects if used by pregnant females , as this effect has been seen consistently when it is administered to animals [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Exclude pregnancy before the initiation of treatment with ambrisentan .
Females of reproductive potential must use acceptable methods of contraception during treatment with ambrisentan and for one month after treatment .
Obtain monthly pregnancy tests during treatment and 1 month after discontinuation of treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Because of the risk of embryo - fetal toxicity , females can only receive ambrisentan through a restricted program called the Ambrisentan REMS program [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
WARNING : EMBRYO - FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Do not administer ambrisentan to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm ( 4 . 1 , 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) .
• Females of reproductive potential : Exclude pregnancy before the start of treatment , monthly during treatment , and 1 month after stopping treatment .
Prevent pregnancy during treatment and for one month after stopping treatment by using acceptable methods of contraception ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 3 ) .
• For all female patients , ambrisentan is available only through a restricted program called the Ambrisentan Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) ( 5 . 2 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ambrisentan tablets are indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) ( WHO Group 1 ) : • To improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening .
• In combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH , and to improve exercise ability [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
Studies establishing effectiveness included predominantly patients with WHO Functional Class II - III symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH ( 60 % ) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases ( 34 % ) .
Ambrisentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) ( WHO Group 1 ) : • To improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening .
• In combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH , and to improve exercise ability .
Studies establishing effectiveness included trials predominantly in patients with WHO Functional Class II - III symptoms and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH ( 60 % ) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases ( 34 % ) ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Initiate treatment at 5 mg once daily ( 2 . 1 ) .
• May be started with tadalafil ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Titrate at 4 - week intervals as needed and tolerated ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Do not split , crush , or chew tablets ( 2 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 .
Adult Dosage Initiate treatment at 5 mg once daily , with or without tadalafil 20 mg once daily .
At 4 - week intervals , either the dose of ambrisentan or tadalafil can be increased , as needed and tolerated , to ambrisentan tablets , 10 mg or tadalafil 40 mg .
Do not split , crush , or chew tablets .
2 . 2 .
Pregnancy Testing in Females of Reproductive Potential Initiate treatment with ambrisentan in females of reproductive potential only after a negative pregnancy test .
Obtain monthly pregnancy tests during treatment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 5 mg and 10 mg film - coated tablets for oral administration • Each 5 mg tablet is square shaped , light pink , with “ ∑ ” on one side and “ 51 ” on the other side .
• Each 10 mg tablet is oval shaped , dark pink , with “ ∑ ” on one side and “ 52 ” on the other side .
Tablet : 5 mg and 10 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Pregnancy ( 4 . 1 ) • Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 .
Pregnancy Ambrisentan may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant female .
Ambrisentan is contraindicated in females who are pregnant .
Ambrisentan was consistently shown to have teratogenic effects when administered to animals .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
4 . 2 .
Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Ambrisentan is contraindicated in patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ( IPF ) , including IPF patients with pulmonary hypertension ( WHO Group 3 ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 4 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Fluid retention may require intervention ( 5 . 3 ) .
• If patients develop acute pulmonary edema during initiation of therapy with ambrisentan , consider underlying pulmonary veno - occlusive disease and discontinue treatment if necessary ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Decreases in sperm count have been observed in patients taking endothelin receptor antagonists ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Decreases in hemoglobin have been observed within the first few weeks ; measure hemoglobin at initiation , at 1 month , and periodically thereafter ( 5 . 6 ) .
5 . 1 .
Embryo - fetal Toxicity Ambrisentan may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy and is contraindicated for use in females who are pregnant .
In females of reproductive potential , exclude pregnancy prior to initiation of therapy , ensure use of acceptable contraceptive methods , and obtain monthly pregnancy tests [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Ambrisentan is only available for females through a restricted program under a REMS [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 .
Ambrisentan REMS Program For all females , ambrisentan is available only through a restricted program called the Ambrisentan REMS , because of the risk of embryo - fetal toxicity [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Notable requirements of the Ambrisentan REMS program include the following : • Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training .
• All females , regardless of reproductive potential , must enroll in the Ambrisentan REMS program prior to initiating ambrisentan .
Male patients are not enrolled in the REMS .
• Females of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Pharmacies that dispense ambrisentan must be certified with the program and must dispense to female patients who are authorized to receive ambrisentan .
Further information is available at www . ambrisentanrems . us . com or 1 - 888 - 417 - 3172 .
5 . 3 .
Fluid Retention Peripheral edema is a known class effect of endothelin receptor antagonists , and is also a clinical consequence of PAH and worsening PAH .
In the placebo - controlled studies , there was an increased incidence of peripheral edema in patients treated with doses of 5 or 10 mg ambrisentan compared to placebo [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Most edema was mild to moderate in severity .
In addition , there have been postmarketing reports of fluid retention in patients with pulmonary hypertension , occurring within weeks after starting ambrisentan .
Patients required intervention with a diuretic , fluid management , or , in some cases , hospitalization for decompensating heart failure .
If clinically significant fluid retention develops , with or without associated weight gain , further evaluation should be undertaken to determine the cause , such as ambrisentan or underlying heart failure , and the possible need for specific treatment or discontinuation of ambrisentan therapy .
Peripheral edema / fluid retention is more common with ambrisentan plus tadalafil than with ambrisentan or tadalafil alone .
5 . 4 .
Pulmonary Edema with Pulmonary Veno - occlusive Disease ( PVOD ) If patients develop acute pulmonary edema during initiation of therapy with vasodilating agents such as ambrisentan , the possibility of PVOD should be considered , and if confirmed ambrisentan should be discontinued .
5 . 5 .
Decreased Sperm Counts Decreased sperm counts have been observed in human and animal studies with another endothelin receptor antagonist and in animal fertility studies with ambrisentan .
Ambrisentan may have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis .
Counsel patients about potential effects on fertility [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 6 .
Hematological Changes Decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit have followed administration of other endothelin receptor antagonists and were observed in clinical studies with ambrisentan .
These decreases were observed within the first few weeks of treatment with ambrisentan , and stabilized thereafter .
The mean decrease in hemoglobin from baseline to end of treatment for those patients receiving ambrisentan in the 12 - week placebo - controlled studies was 0 . 8 g / dL .
Marked decreases in hemoglobin ( > 15 % decrease from baseline resulting in a value below the lower limit of normal ) were observed in 7 % of all patients receiving ambrisentan ( and 10 % of patients receiving 10 mg ) compared to 4 % of patients receiving placebo .
The cause of the decrease in hemoglobin is unknown , but it does not appear to result from hemorrhage or hemolysis .
In the long - term open - label extension of the two pivotal clinical studies , mean decreases from baseline ( ranging from 0 . 9 to 1 . 2 g / dL ) in hemoglobin concentrations persisted for up to 4 years of treatment .
There have been postmarketing reports of decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit that have resulted in anemia requiring transfusion .
Measure hemoglobin prior to initiation of ambrisentan , at one month , and periodically thereafter .
Initiation of ambrisentan therapy is not recommended for patients with clinically significant anemia .
If a clinically significant decrease in hemoglobin is observed and other causes have been excluded , consider discontinuing ambrisentan .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinically significant adverse reactions that appear in other sections of the labeling include : • Embryo - fetal Toxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] • Fluid Retention [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Pulmonary Edema with PVOD [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Decreased Sperm Count [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hematologic Changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Most common adverse reactions ( > 3 % compared to placebo ) are peripheral edema , nasal congestion , sinusitis , and flushing ( 6 . 1 ) .
• When used in combination with tadalafil , most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % compared with either Monotherapy ) are peripheral edema , headache , nasal congestion , cough , anemia , dyspepsia , and bronchitis ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC , Pharmacovigilance at 1 - 855 - 332 - 0731 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 .
Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Safety data for ambrisentan are presented from two 12 - week , placebo - controlled studies ( ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 ) in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) , and one randomized , double - blind , active - controlled trial in 605 patients with PAH ( AMBITION ) comparing ambrisentan plus tadalafil to ambrisentan or tadalafil alone .
The exposure to ambrisentan in these studies ranged from 1 day to 4 years ( N = 357 for at least 6 months and N = 279 for at least 1 year ) .
In ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 , a total of 261 patients received ambrisentan at doses of 2 . 5 , 5 , or 10 mg once daily and 132 patients received placebo .
The adverse reactions that occurred in > 3 % more patients receiving ambrisentan than receiving placebo are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Adverse Reactions with Placebo - Adjusted Rates > 3 % in ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 Placebo ( N = 132 ) Ambrisentan ( N = 261 ) Adverse Reaction n ( % ) n ( % ) Placebo - adjusted ( % ) Peripheral edema 14 ( 11 ) 45 ( 17 ) 6 Nasal congestion 2 ( 2 ) 15 ( 6 ) 4 Sinusitis 0 ( 0 ) 8 ( 3 ) 3 Flushing 1 ( 1 ) 10 ( 4 ) 3 Most adverse drug reactions were mild to moderate and only nasal congestion was dose - dependent .
Few notable differences in the incidence of adverse reactions were observed for patients by age or sex .
Peripheral edema was similar in younger patients ( < 65 years ) receiving ambrisentan ( 14 % ; 29 / 205 ) or placebo ( 13 % ; 13 / 104 ) , and was greater in elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years ) receiving ambrisentan ( 29 % ; 16 / 56 ) compared to placebo ( 4 % ; 1 / 28 ) .
The results of such subgroup analyses must be interpreted cautiously .
The incidence of treatment discontinuations due to adverse events other than those related to PAH during the clinical trials in patients with PAH was similar for ambrisentan ( 2 % ; 5 / 261 patients ) and placebo ( 2 % ; 3 / 132 patients ) .
The incidence of patients with serious adverse events other than those related to PAH during the clinical trials in patients with PAH was similar for placebo ( 7 % ; 9 / 132 patients ) and for ambrisentan ( 5 % ; 13 / 261 patients ) .
During 12 - week controlled clinical trials , the incidence of aminotransferase elevations > 3 x upper limit of normal ( ULN ) were 0 % on ambrisentan and 2 . 3 % on placebo .
In practice , cases of hepatic injury should be carefully evaluated for cause .
Combination Use with Tadalafil The mean exposure to ambrisentan + tadalafil in the AMBITION study was 78 . 7 weeks .
The adverse reactions that occurred in > 5 % more patients receiving ambrisentan + tadalafil than receiving ambrisentan or tadalafil monotherapy in AMBITION are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 Adverse Reactions Reported More Commonly ( > 5 % ) on Ambrisentan + Tadalafil than on Ambrisentan or Tadalafil Monotherapy ( ITT ) in AMBITION Adverse Reactions Ambrisentan + Tadalafil Combination Therapy ( N = 302 ) n ( % ) Ambrisentan Monotherapy ( N = 152 ) n ( % ) Tadalafil Monotherapy ( N = 151 ) n ( % ) Peripheral edema 135 ( 45 % ) 58 ( 38 % ) 43 ( 28 % ) Headache 125 ( 41 % ) 51 ( 34 % ) 53 ( 35 % ) Nasal congestion 58 ( 19 % ) 25 ( 16 % ) 17 ( 11 % ) Cough 53 ( 18 % ) 20 ( 13 % ) 24 ( 16 % ) Anemia 44 ( 15 % ) 11 ( 7 % ) 17 ( 11 % ) Dyspepsia 32 ( 11 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) 18 ( 12 % ) Bronchitis 31 ( 10 % ) 6 ( 4 % ) 13 ( 9 % ) Peripheral edema was more frequent on combination therapy ; however , there was no notable difference observed in the incidence of peripheral edema in elderly patients ( ≥ 65 years ) versus younger patients ( < 65 years ) on combination therapy ( 44 % vs . 45 % ) or ambrisentan monotherapy ( 37 % vs . 39 % ) in AMBITION .
Treatment discontinuations due to adverse events while on randomized treatment were similar across treatment groups : 16 % for ambrisentan + tadalafil , 14 % for ambrisentan alone , and 13 % for tadalafil alone .
Use in Patients with Prior Endothelin Receptor Antagonist ( ERA ) Related Serum Liver Enzyme Abnormalities In an uncontrolled , open - label study , 36 patients who had previously discontinued endothelin receptor antagonists ( ERAs : bosentan , an investigational drug , or both ) due to aminotransferase elevations > 3 x ULN were treated with ambrisentan .
Prior elevations were predominantly moderate , with 64 % of the ALT elevations < 5 x ULN , but 9 patients had elevations > 8 x ULN .
Eight patients had been re - challenged with bosentan and / or the investigational ERA and all eight had a recurrence of aminotransferase abnormalities that required discontinuation of ERA therapy .
All patients had to have normal aminotransferase levels on entry to this study .
Twenty - five of the 36 patients were also receiving prostanoid and / or phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 ) inhibitor therapy .
Two patients discontinued early ( including one of the patients with a prior 8 x ULN elevation ) .
Of the remaining 34 patients , one patient experienced a mild aminotransferase elevation at 12 weeks on ambrisentan 5 mg that resolved with decreasing the dosage to 2 . 5 mg , and that did not recur with later escalations to 10 mg .
With a median follow - up of 13 months and with 50 % of patients increasing the dose of ambrisentan to 10 mg , no patients were discontinued for aminotransferase elevations .
While the uncontrolled study design does not provide information about what would have occurred with re - administration of previously used ERAs or show that ambrisentan led to fewer aminotransferase elevations than would have been seen with those drugs , the study indicates that ambrisentan may be tried in patients who have experienced asymptomatic aminotransferase elevations on other ERAs after aminotransferase levels have returned to normal .
6 . 2 .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post - approval use of ambrisentan .
Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to estimate reliably the frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : anemia requiring transfusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] heart failure ( associated with fluid retention ) , symptomatic hypotension , and hypersensitivity ( e . g . , angioedema , rash ) .
Elevations of liver aminotransferases ( ALT , AST ) have been reported with ambrisentan use ; in most cases alternative causes of the liver injury could be identified ( heart failure , hepatic congestion , hepatitis , alcohol use , hepatotoxic medications ) .
Other endothelin receptor antagonists have been associated with elevations of aminotransferases , hepatotoxicity , and cases of liver failure [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC , Pharmacovigilance at 1 - 855 - 332 - 0731 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Multiple dose coadministration of ambrisentan and cyclosporine resulted in an approximately 2 - fold increase in ambrisentan exposure in healthy volunteers ; therefore , limit the dose of ambrisentan to 5 mg once daily when coadministered with cyclosporine [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Cyclosporine increases ambrisentan exposure ; limit ambrisentan dose to 5 mg once daily ( 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Breastfeeding : Choose ambrisentan or breastfeeding ( 8 . 2 ) .
• Not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment ( 8 . 7 ) .
8 . 1 .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on data from animal reproduction studies , ambrisentan tablets may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman and is contraindicated during pregnancy .
There are limited data on ambrisentan tablets use in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , ambrisentan tablets were teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses which resulted in exposures of 3 . 5 and 1 . 7 times , respectively , the human dose of 10 mg per day [ see Animal Data ] .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , advise the patient of the potential hazard to a fetus [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Ambrisentan was teratogenic at oral dosages of ≥ 15 mg / kg / day ( AUC 51 . 7 h • μg / mL ) in rats and ≥ 7 mg / kg / day ( 24 . 7 h • μg / mL ) in rabbits ; it was not studied at lower dosages .
These dosages are of 3 . 5 and 1 . 7 times , respectively , the human dose of 10 mg per day ( 14 . 8 h • μg / mL ) based on AUC .
In both species , there were abnormalities of the lower jaw and hard and soft palate , malformation of the heart and great vessels , and failure of formation of the thymus and thyroid .
A preclinical study in rats has shown decreased survival of newborn pups ( mid and high dosages ) and effects on testicle size and fertility of pups ( high dosage ) following maternal treatment with ambrisentan from late gestation through weaning .
The mid and high dosages were 51 x , and 170 x ( on a mg / m 2 body surface area basis ) the maximum oral human dose of 10 mg and an average adult body weight of 70 kg .
These effects were absent at a maternal dosage 17 x the human dose based on mg / m 2 .
8 . 2 .
Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether ambrisentan is present in human milk .
Because many drugs are present in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from ambrisentan , a decision should be made whether to discontinue breastfeeding or discontinue ambrisentan , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 3 .
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Female patients of reproductive potential must have a negative pregnancy test prior to initiation of treatment , monthly pregnancy test during treatment , and pregnancy test 1 month after stopping treatment with ambrisentan .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they become pregnant or suspect they may be pregnant .
Perform a pregnancy test if pregnancy is suspected for any reason .
For positive pregnancy tests , counsel patient on the potential risk to the fetus and patient options [ see Boxed Warning and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Contraception Female patients of reproductive potential must use acceptable methods of contraception during treatment with ambrisentan and for 1 month after stopping treatment with ambrisentan .
Patients may choose one highly effective form of contraception ( intrauterine device [ IUD ] , contraceptive implant , or tubal sterilization ) or a combination of methods ( hormone method with a barrier method or two barrier methods ) .
If a partner ’ s vasectomy is the chosen method of contraception , a hormone or barrier method must be used along with this method .
Counsel patients on pregnancy planning and prevention , including emergency contraception , or designate counseling by another healthcare provider trained in contraceptive counseling [ see Boxed Warning ] .
Infertility Males In a 6 - month study of another endothelin receptor antagonist , bosentan , 25 male patients with WHO functional class III and IV PAH and normal baseline sperm count were evaluated for effects on testicular function .
There was a decline in sperm count of at least 50 % in 25 % of the patients after 3 or 6 months of treatment with bosentan .
One patient developed marked oligospermia at 3 months , and the sperm count remained low with 2 follow - up measurements over the subsequent 6 weeks .
Bosentan was discontinued and after 2 months the sperm count had returned to baseline levels .
In 22 patients who completed 6 months of treatment , sperm count remained within the normal range and no changes in sperm morphology , sperm motility , or hormone levels were observed .
Based on these findings and preclinical data [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] from endothelin receptor antagonists , it cannot be excluded that endothelin receptor antagonists such as ambrisentan have an adverse effect on spermatogenesis .
Counsel patients about the potential effects on fertility [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
8 . 4 .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of ambrisentan in pediatric patients have not been established .
Juvenile Animal Data In juvenile rats administered ambrisentan orally once daily during postnatal day 7 to 26 , 36 , or 62 , a decrease in brain weight ( - 3 % to - 8 % ) with no morphologic or neurobehavioral changes occurred after breathing sounds , apnea , and hypoxia were observed , at exposures approximately 1 . 8 to 7 . 0 times human pediatric exposures at 10 mg , based on AUC .
8 . 5 .
Geriatric Use In the two placebo - controlled clinical studies of ambrisentan , 21 % of patients were ≥ 65 years old and 5 % were ≥ 75 years old .
The elderly ( age ≥ 65 years ) showed less improvement in walk distances with ambrisentan than younger patients did , but the results of such subgroup analyses must be interpreted cautiously .
Peripheral edema was more common in the elderly than in younger patients .
8 . 6 .
Renal Impairment The impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan has been examined using a population pharmacokinetic approach in PAH patients with creatinine clearances ranging between 20 and 150 mL / min .
There was no significant impact of mild or moderate renal impairment on exposure to ambrisentan [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dose adjustment of ambrisentan in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment is therefore not required .
There is no information on the exposure to ambrisentan in patients with severe renal impairment .
The impact of hemodialysis on the disposition of ambrisentan has not been investigated .
8 . 7 .
Hepatic Impairment Pre - existing Hepatic Impairment The influence of pre - existing hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan has not been evaluated .
Because there is in vitro and in vivo evidence of significant metabolic and biliary contribution to the elimination of ambrisentan , hepatic impairment might be expected to have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Ambrisentan is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment .
There is no information on the use of ambrisentan in patients with mild pre - existing impaired liver function ; however , exposure to ambrisentan may be increased in these patients .
Elevation of Liver Transaminases Other endothelin receptor antagonists ( ERAs ) have been associated with aminotransferase ( AST , ALT ) elevations , hepatotoxicity , and cases of liver failure [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
In patients who develop hepatic impairment after ambrisentan initiation , the cause of liver injury should be fully investigated .
Discontinue ambrisentan if elevations of liver aminotransferases are > 5 x ULN or if elevations are accompanied by bilirubin > 2 x ULN , or by signs or symptoms of liver dysfunction and other causes are excluded .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no experience with overdosage of ambrisentan .
The highest single dose of ambrisentan administered to healthy volunteers was 100 mg , and the highest daily dose administered to patients with PAH was 10 mg once daily .
In healthy volunteers , single doses of 50 mg and 100 mg ( 5 to 10 times the maximum recommended dose ) were associated with headache , flushing , dizziness , nausea , and nasal congestion .
Massive overdosage could potentially result in hypotension that may require intervention .
11 DESCRIPTION Ambrisentan is an endothelin receptor antagonist that is selective for the endothelin type - A ( ET A ) receptor .
The chemical name of ambrisentan is ( + ) - ( 2 S ) - 2 - [ ( 4 , 6 - dimethylpyrimidin - 2 - yl ) oxy ] - 3 - methoxy - 3 , 3 - diphenylpropanoic acid .
It has a molecular formula of C 22 H 22 N 2 O 4 and a molecular weight of 378 . 42 .
It contains a single chiral center determined to be the ( S ) configuration and has the following structural formula : Figure 1 Ambrisentan Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Ambrisentan is a white to off - white , crystalline solid .
It is a carboxylic acid with a pKa of 4 . 0 .
Ambrisentan is practically insoluble in water and in aqueous solutions at low pH . Solubility increases in aqueous solutions at higher pH . In the solid state ambrisentan is very stable , is not hygroscopic , and is not light sensitive .
Ambrisentan tablets are available as 5 mg and 10 mg film - coated tablets for once daily oral administration .
The tablets include the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
The tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing FD & C Red # 40 aluminum lake , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Ambrisentan tablets , 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue # 2 .
Each square shaped , light pink ambrisentan tablet contains 5 mg of ambrisentan .
Each oval shaped , dark pink ambrisentan tablet contains 10 mg of ambrisentan .
Ambrisentan tablets are unscored .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 .
Mechanism of Action Endothelin - 1 ( ET - 1 ) is a potent autocrine and paracrine peptide .
Two receptor subtypes , ET A and ET B , mediate the effects of ET - 1 in the vascular smooth muscle and endothelium .
The primary actions of ET A are vasoconstriction and cell proliferation , while the predominant actions of ET B are vasodilation , antiproliferation , and ET - 1 clearance .
In patients with PAH , plasma ET - 1 concentrations are increased as much as 10 - fold and correlate with increased mean right atrial pressure and disease severity .
ET - 1 and ET - 1 mRNA concentrations are increased as much as 9 - fold in the lung tissue of patients with PAH , primarily in the endothelium of pulmonary arteries .
These findings suggest that ET - 1 may play a critical role in the pathogenesis and progression of PAH .
Ambrisentan is a high - affinity ( K i = 0 . 011 nM ) ET A receptor antagonist with a high selectivity for the ET A versus ET B receptor ( > 4000 - fold ) .
The clinical impact of high selectivity for ET A is not known .
12 . 2 .
Pharmacodynamics Cardiac Electrophysiology In a randomized , positive - and placebo - controlled , parallel - group study , healthy subjects received either ambrisentan 10 mg daily followed by a single dose of 40 mg , placebo followed by a single dose of moxifloxacin 400 mg , or placebo alone .
Ambrisentan 10 mg daily had no significant effect on the QTc interval .
The 40 mg dose of ambrisentan increased mean QTc at t max by 5 ms with an upper 95 % confidence limit of 9 ms . For patients receiving ambrisentan 5 – 10 mg daily and not taking metabolic inhibitors , no significant QT prolongation is expected .
N - terminal pro - B - type natriuretic peptide ( NT - proBNP ) In AMBITION [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] , the decrease in NT - proBNP in patients on ambrisentan plus tadalafil was observed early ( Week 4 ) and was sustained , with a reduction of 63 % on ambrisentan plus tadalafil , 50 % on ambrisentan alone , and 41 % on tadalafil alone at Week 24 .
12 . 3 .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of ambrisentan ( S - ambrisentan ) in healthy subjects is dose proportional .
The absolute bioavailability of ambrisentan is not known .
Ambrisentan is absorbed with peak concentrations occurring approximately 2 hours after oral administration in healthy subjects and PAH patients .
Food does not affect its bioavailability .
In vitro studies indicate that ambrisentan is a substrate of P - gp .
Ambrisentan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( 99 % ) .
The elimination of ambrisentan is predominantly by non - renal pathways , but the relative contributions of metabolism and biliary elimination have not been well characterized .
In plasma , the AUC of 4 - hydroxymethyl ambrisentan accounts for approximately 4 % relative to parent ambrisentan AUC .
The in vivo inversion of S - ambrisentan to R - ambrisentan is negligible .
The mean oral clearance of ambrisentan is 38 mL / min and 19 mL / min in healthy subjects and in PAH patients , respectively .
Although ambrisentan has a 15 - hour terminal half - life , the mean trough concentration of ambrisentan at steady - state is about 15 % of the mean peak concentration and the accumulation factor is about 1 . 2 after long - term daily dosing , indicating that the effective half - life of ambrisentan is about 9 hours .
Drug Interactions In Vitro Studies Studies with human liver tissue indicate that ambrisentan is metabolized by CYP3A , CYP2C19 , and uridine 5 ’ - diphosphate glucuronosyltransferases ( UGTs ) 1A9S , 2B7S , and 1A3S .
In vitro studies suggest that ambrisentan is a substrate of the Organic Anion Transporting Polypeptides OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 , and P - glycoprotein ( P - gp ) .
Drug interactions might be expected because of these factors ; however , a clinically relevant interaction has been demonstrated only with cyclosporine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
In vitro studies found ambrisentan to have little to no inhibition of human hepatic transporters .
Ambrisentan demonstrated weak dose - dependent inhibition of OATP1B1 , OATP1B3 , and NTCP ( IC 50 of 47 μM , 45 μM , and approximately 100 μM , respectively ) and no transporter - specific inhibition of BSEP , BRCP , P - gp , or MRP2 .
Ambrisentan does not inhibit or induce drug metabolizing enzymes at clinically relevant concentrations .
In Vivo Studies The effects of other drugs on ambrisentan pharmacokinetics and the effects of ambrisentan on the exposure to other drugs are shown in Figure 2 and Figure 3 , respectively .
Figure 2 Effects of Other Drugs on Ambrisentan Pharmacokinetics [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Omeprazole : based on population pharmacokinetic analysis in PAH patients ** Rifampin : AUC and C max were measured at steady - state .
On Day 3 of coadministration a transient 2 - fold increase in AUC was noted that was no longer evident by Day 7 .
Day 7 results are presented .
Figure 3 Effects of Ambrisentan on Other Drugs [ MULTIMEDIA ] * Active metabolite of mycophenolate mofetil ** GMR ( 95 % CI ) for INR [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Oral carcinogenicity studies of up to two years duration were conducted at starting doses of 10 , 30 , and 60 mg / kg / day in rats ( 8 to 48 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m 2 basis ) and at 50 , 150 , and 250 mg / kg / day in mice ( 28 to 140 times the MRHD ) .
In the rat study , the high - and mid - dose male and female groups had their doses lowered to 40 and 20 mg / kg / day , respectively , in week 51 because of effects on survival .
The high - dose males and females were taken off drug completely in weeks 69 and 93 , respectively .
The only evidence of ambrisentan - related carcinogenicity was a positive trend in male rats , for the combined incidence of benign basal cell tumor and basal cell carcinoma of skin / subcutis in the mid - dose group ( high - dose group excluded from analysis ) , and the occurrence of mammary fibroadenomas in males in the high - dose group .
In the mouse study , high - dose male and female groups had their doses lowered to 150 mg / kg / day in week 39 and were taken off drug completely in week 96 ( males ) or week 76 ( females ) .
In mice , ambrisentan was not associated with excess tumors in any dosed group .
Positive findings of clastogenicity were detected , at drug concentrations producing moderate to high toxicity , in the chromosome aberration assay in cultured human lymphocytes .
There was no evidence for genetic toxicity of ambrisentan when tested in vitro in bacteria ( Ames test ) or in vivo in rats ( micronucleus assay , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay ) .
The development of testicular tubular atrophy and impaired fertility has been linked to the chronic administration of endothelin receptor antagonists in rodents .
Testicular tubular degeneration was observed in rats treated with ambrisentan for two years at doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( 8 - fold MRHD ) .
Increased incidences of testicular findings were also observed in mice treated for two years at doses ≥ 50 mg / kg / day ( 28 - fold MRHD ) .
Effects on sperm count , sperm morphology , mating performance , and fertility were observed in fertility studies in which male rats were treated with ambrisentan at oral doses of 300 mg / kg / day ( 236 - fold MRHD ) .
At doses of ≥ 10 mg / kg / day , observations of testicular histopathology in the absence of fertility and sperm effects were also present .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 .
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension ( PAH ) Two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter studies were conducted in 393 patients with PAH ( WHO Group 1 ) .
The two studies were identical in design except for the doses of ambrisentan and the geographic region of the investigational sites .
ARIES - 1 compared once - daily doses of 5 mg and 10 mg ambrisentan to placebo , while ARIES - 2 compared once - daily doses of 2 . 5 mg and 5 mg ambrisentan to placebo .
In both studies , ambrisentan or placebo was added to current therapy , which could have included a combination of anticoagulants , diuretics , calcium channel blockers , or digoxin , but not epoprostenol , treprostinil , iloprost , bosentan , or sildenafil .
The primary study endpoint was 6 - minute walk distance .
In addition , clinical worsening , WHO functional class , dyspnea , and SF - 36 ® Health Survey were assessed .
Patients had idiopathic or heritable PAH ( 64 % ) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases ( 32 % ) , HIV infection ( 3 % ) , or anorexigen use ( 1 % ) .
There were no patients with PAH associated with congenital heart disease .
Patients had WHO functional class I ( 2 % ) , II ( 38 % ) , III ( 55 % ) , or IV ( 5 % ) symptoms at baseline .
The mean age of patients was 50 years , 79 % of patients were female , and 77 % were Caucasian .
Submaximal Exercise Ability Results of the 6 - minute walk distance at 12 weeks for the ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 studies are shown in Table 3 and Figure 4 .
Table 3 Changes from Baseline in 6 - Minute Walk Distance ( meters ) ( ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 ) ARIES - 1 ARIES - 2 Placebo ( N = 67 ) 5 mg ( N = 67 ) 10 mg ( N = 67 ) Placebo ( N = 65 ) 2 . 5 mg ( N = 64 ) 5 mg ( N = 63 ) Baseline 342 ± 73 340 ± 77 342 ± 78 343 ± 86 347 ± 84 355 ± 84 Mean change from baseline - 8 ± 79 23 ± 83 44 ± 63 - 10 ± 94 22 ± 83 49 ± 75 Placebo - adjusted mean change from baseline - 31 51 - 32 59 Placebo - adjusted median change from baseline - 27 39 - 30 45 p - value a - 0 . 008 < 0 . 001 - 0 . 022 < 0 . 001 Mean ± standard deviation a p - values are Wilcoxon rank sum test comparisons of ambrisentan to placebo at Week 12 stratified by idiopathic or heritable PAH and non - idiopathic , non - heritable PAH patients Figure 4 Mean Change in 6 - Minute Walk Distance ( ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Mean change from baseline in 6 - minute walk distance in the placebo and ambrisentan groups .
Values are expressed as mean ± standard error of the mean .
In both studies , treatment with ambrisentan resulted in a significant improvement in 6 - minute walk distance for each dose of ambrisentan and the improvements increased with dose .
An increase in 6 - minute walk distance was observed after 4 weeks of treatment with ambrisentan , with a dose - response observed after 12 weeks of treatment .
Improvements in walk distance with ambrisentan were smaller for elderly patients ( age ≥ 65 ) than younger patients and for patients with secondary PAH than for patients with idiopathic or heritable PAH .
The results of such subgroup analyses must be interpreted cautiously .
Clinical Worsening Time to clinical worsening of PAH was defined as the first occurrence of death , lung transplantation , hospitalization for PAH , atrial septostomy , study withdrawal due to the addition of other PAH therapeutic agents , or study withdrawal due to early escape .
Early escape was defined as meeting two or more of the following criteria : a 20 % decrease in the 6 - minute walk distance ; an increase in WHO functional class ; worsening right ventricular failure ; rapidly progressing cardiogenic , hepatic , or renal failure ; or refractory systolic hypotension .
The clinical worsening events during the 12 - week treatment period of the ambrisentan clinical trials are shown in Table 4 and Figure 5 .
Table 4 Time to Clinical Worsening ( ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 ) ARIES - 1 ARIES - 2 Placebo ( N = 67 ) Ambrisentan ( N = 134 ) Placebo ( N = 65 ) Ambrisentan ( N = 127 ) Clinical worsening , no .
( % ) 7 ( 10 % ) 4 ( 3 % ) 13 ( 22 % ) 8 ( 6 % ) Hazard ratio - 0 . 28 - 0 . 30 p - value , Log - rank test - 0 . 030 - 0 . 005 Intention - to - treat population Note : Patients may have had more than one reason for clinical worsening .
Nominal p - values There was a significant delay in the time to clinical worsening for patients receiving ambrisentan compared to placebo .
Results in subgroups such as the elderly were also favorable .
Figure 5 Time to Clinical Worsening ( ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Time from randomization to clinical worsening with Kaplan - Meier estimates of the proportions of patients without events in ARIES - 1 and ARIES - 2 .
p - values shown are the log - rank comparisons of ambrisentan to placebo stratified by idiopathic or heritable PAH and non - idiopathic , non - heritable PAH patients .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 .
Combination Treatment of PAH In a randomized , double - blind , active - controlled trial ( AMBITION ) , 605 patients with WHO Functional Class II or III PAH were randomized 2 : 1 : 1 to once daily ambrisentan plus tadalafil or to ambrisentan or tadalafil alone .
Treatment was initiated with ambrisentan tablets 5 mg and tadalafil 20 mg .
If tolerated , tadalafil was increased to 40 mg at 4 weeks and ambrisentan was increased to 10 mg at 8 weeks .
The primary endpoint was time to first occurrence of ( a ) death , ( b ) hospitalization for worsening PAH , ( c ) > 15 % decrease from baseline in 6 MWD combined with WHO Functional Class III or IV symptoms sustained over 14 days ( short term clinical worsening ) , or ( d ) reduction in 6 MWD sustained over 14 days combined with WHO Functional Class III or IV symptoms sustained over 6 months ( inadequate long term clinical response ) .
Patients had idiopathic PAH ( 55 % ) , heritable PAH ( 3 % ) , or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases , congenital heart disease , stable HIV infection , or drugs or toxins ( APAH , 43 % ) .
Median time from diagnosis to first study drug administration was 25 days .
Approximately 32 % and 68 % of patients were in WHO Functional Class II and III , respectively .
The mean patient age was 55 . 7 years ( 34 % were ≥ 65 years old ) .
Most patients were white ( 90 % ) and female ( 76 % ) ; 45 % were North American .
Principal results are shown in Figures 6 and 7 .
Figure 6 Time to Primary Endpoint Event ( AMBITION ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 Primary Endpoint Events and First Occurrences of Each Component at Any Time ( AMBITION ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] The treatment effect of ambrisentan plus tadalafil compared with individual monotherapy on time to first primary endpoint event was consistent across subgroups .
( Figure 8 ) .
Figure 8 Primary Endpoint by Subgroups ( AMBITION ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Note : The figure above presents effects in various subgroups all of which are baseline characteristics and all of which were pre - specified , if not the groupings .
The 95 % confidence limits that are shown do not take into account how many comparisons were made , nor do they reflect the effect of a particular factor after adjustment for all other factors .
Apparent homogeneity or heterogeneity among groups should not be over interpreted .
Exercise Ability Results of the 6 MWD at 24 weeks for the AMBITION study are shown in Table 5 and Figure 9 .
Table 5 6 - Minute Walk Distance at Week 24 ( meters ) a ( AMBITION ) Ambrisentan + Tadalafil ( N = 302 ) Ambrisentan Monotherapy ( N = 152 ) Tadalafil Monotherapy ( N = 151 ) Baseline ( median ) 356 366 352 Change from baseline ( median ) 43 23 22 Median difference from Ambrisentan + Tadalafil ( 95 % CI ) 24 ( 11 , 37 ) 20 ( 8 , 32 ) P - Value 0 . 0004 0 . 0016 a Missing values at Week 24 were imputed using Worst Rank scores for patients with an adjudicated clinical failure event of death or hospitalization , and Last Observed Carried Forward otherwise .
Figure 9 Median Change in 6 - Minute Walk Distance ( meters ) in AMBITION [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 3 .
Long - term Treatment of PAH In long - term follow - up of patients who were treated with ambrisentan ( 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , or 10 mg once daily ) in the two pivotal studies and their open - label extension ( N = 383 ) , Kaplan - Meier estimates of survival at 1 , 2 , and 3 years were 93 % , 85 % , and 79 % , respectively .
Of the patients who remained on ambrisentan for up to 3 years , the majority received no other treatment for PAH .
These uncontrolled observations do not allow comparison with a group not given ambrisentan and cannot be used to determine the long - term effect of ambrisentan on mortality .
14 . 4 .
Adverse Effects in Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ( IPF ) A randomized controlled study in patients with IPF , with or without pulmonary hypertension ( WHO Group 3 ) , compared ambrisentan ( N = 329 ) to placebo ( N = 163 ) .
The study was terminated after 34 weeks for lack of efficacy , and was found to demonstrate a greater risk of disease progression or death on ambrisentan .
More patients taking ambrisentan died ( 8 % vs . 4 % ) , had a respiratory hospitalization ( 13 % vs . 6 % ) , and had a decrease in FVC / DLCO ( 17 % vs . 12 % ) [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 2 ) ] .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ambrisentan film - coated tablets are supplied as follows : Tablet Strength Package Configuration NDC No .
Description of Tablet ; Debossed on Tablet ; Size 5 mg 30 count bottle 42794 - 051 - 08 Square shaped ; light pink ; “ ∑ ” on one side and “ 51 ” on the other side ; 6 . 6 mm Square 10 count bottle 42794 - 051 - 22 10 mg 30 count bottle 42794 - 052 - 08 Oval shaped ; dark pink ; “ ∑ ” on one side and “ 52 ” on the other side ; 9 . 8 mm x 4 . 9 mm Oval 10 count bottle 42794 - 052 - 22 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) [ see USP controlled room temperature ] .
Store ambrisentan tablets in its original packaging .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Embryo - fetal Toxicity Instruct patients on the risk of fetal harm when ambrisentan is used in pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Female patients must enroll in the Ambrisentan REMS Program .
Instruct females of reproductive potential to immediately contact their physician if they suspect they may be pregnant .
Ambrisentan REMS Program For female patients , ambrisentan is only available through a restricted program called the Ambrisentan REMS [ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Male patients are not enrolled in the Ambrisentan REMS .
Inform female patients ( and their guardians , if applicable ) of the following notable requirements : • All female patients must sign an enrollment form .
• Advise female patients of reproductive potential that they must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
• Educate and counsel females of reproductive potential on the use of emergency contraception in the event of unprotected sex or known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• Advise pre - pubertal females to report any changes in their reproductive status immediately to their prescriber .
Review the Ambrisentan Medication Guide and REMS educational material with female patients .
A limited number of pharmacies are certified to dispense ambrisentan tablets .
Therefore , provide patients with the telephone number and website for information on how to obtain the product .
Hepatic Effects Advise patients of the symptoms of potential liver injury and instruct them to report any of these symptoms to their physician .
Hematological Change Advise patients of the importance of hemoglobin testing .
Other Risks Associated with Ambrisentan Instruct patients that the risks associated with ambrisentan also include the following : • Decreases in sperm count • Fluid overload Administration Advise patients not to split , crush , or chew tablets .
Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC , Bensalem , PA 19020 Other brands noted herein are the property of their respective owners .
OS052 - 05 REV . 1218 Medication Guide Ambrisentan ( am ' bri sen ' tan ) Tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking ambrisentan tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about ambrisentan tablets ?
• Serious birth defects . Ambrisentan tablets can cause serious birth defects if taken during pregnancy .
• Females must not be pregnant when they start taking ambrisentan tablets or become pregnant during treatment with ambrisentan tablets .
• Females who are able to get pregnant must have a negative pregnancy test before beginning treatment with ambrisentan tablets , each month during treatment with ambrisentan tablets , and one month after stopping ambrisentan tablets .
Talk to your doctor about your menstrual cycle .
Your doctor will decide when to do a pregnancy test , and will order a pregnancy test for you depending on your menstrual cycle .
• Females who are able to get pregnant are females who : • have entered puberty , even if they have not started their menstrual period , and • have a uterus , and • have not gone through menopause .
Menopause means that you have not had a menstrual period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or that you have had your ovaries removed .
• Females who are not able to get pregnant are females who : • have not yet entered puberty , or • do not have a uterus , or • have gone through menopause .
Menopause means that you have not had a menstrual period for at least 12 months for natural reasons , or that you have had your ovaries removed , or • who are infertile for any other medical reason and this infertility is permanent and cannot be reversed .
Females who are able to get pregnant must use two acceptable forms of birth control during treatment with ambrisentan tablets , and for one month after stopping ambrisentan tablets because the medicine may still be in the body .
• If you have had a tubal sterilization or have an IUD ( intrauterine device ) or progesterone implant , these methods can be used alone and no other form of birth control is needed .
• Talk with your doctor or gynecologist ( a doctor who specializes in female reproduction ) to find out about options for acceptable forms of birth control that you may use to prevent pregnancy during treatment with ambrisentan tablets .
• If you decide that you want to change the form of birth control that you use , talk with your doctor or gynecologist to be sure that you choose another acceptable form of birth control .
See the chart below for Acceptable Birth Control Options during treatment with ambrisentan tablets .
Acceptable Birth Control Options [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not have unprotected sex .
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist right away if you have unprotected sex or if you think your birth control has failed .
Your doctor may tell you to use emergency birth control .
• Tell your doctor right away if you miss a menstrual period or think you may be pregnant for any reason .
If you are the parent or caregiver of a female child who started taking ambrisentan tablets before reaching puberty , you should check your child regularly to see if she is developing signs of puberty .
Tell your doctor right away if you notice that she is developing breast buds or pubic hair .
Your doctor should decide if your child has reached puberty .
Your child may reach puberty before having her first menstrual period .
Females can only receive ambrisentan tablets through a restricted program called the Ambrisentan Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy ( REMS ) program .
If you are a female who can get pregnant , you must talk to your doctor , understand the benefits and risks of ambrisentan tablets , and agree to all of the instructions in the Ambrisentan REMS program .
Males can receive ambrisentan tablets without taking part in the Ambrisentan REMS program .
What are ambrisentan tablets ?
• Ambrisentan tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) , which is high blood pressure in the arteries of your lungs .
• Ambrisentan tablets can improve your ability to exercise and it can help slow down the worsening of your physical condition and symptoms .
• When taken with tadalafil , ambrisentan tablets are used to reduce the risk of your disease progressing , to reduce the risk of hospitalization due to worsening pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) , and to improve your ability to exercise .
• It is not known if ambrisentan tablets are safe and effective in children .
Who should not take ambrisentan tablets ?
Do not take ambrisentan tablets if : • you are pregnant , plan to become pregnant , or become pregnant during treatment with ambrisentan tablets .
Ambrisentan tablets can cause serious birth defects .
( See " What is the most important information I should know about ambrisentan tablets ? " )
Serious birth defects from ambrisentan tablets happen early in pregnancy .
• you have a condition called Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ( IPF ) What should I tell my doctor before taking ambrisentan tablets ?
Before you take ambrisentan tablets , tell your doctor if you : • have been told that you have a low red blood cell level ( anemia ) • have liver problems • have any other medical conditions Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Ambrisentan tablets and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
Do not start any new medicines until you check with your doctor .
Especially tell your doctor if you take the medicine cyclosporine ( Gengraf , Neoral , Sandimmune ) .
Your doctor may need to change your dose of ambrisentan tablets .
How should I take ambrisentan tablets ?
• Ambrisentan tablets will be mailed to you by a certified pharmacy .
Your doctor will give you complete details .
• Take ambrisentan tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
Do not stop taking ambrisentan tablets unless your doctor tells you to stop .
• You can take ambrisentan tablets with or without food .
• Do not split , crush or chew ambrisentan tablets .
• It will be easier to remember to take ambrisentan tablets if you take it at the same time each day .
• If you take more than your regular dose of ambrisentan tablets , call your doctor right away .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember that day .
Take your next dose at the regular time .
Do not take two doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
What should I avoid while taking ambrisentan tablets ?
• Do not get pregnant while taking ambrisentan tablets .
( See the serious birth defects section of the Medication Guide above called " What is the most important information I should know about ambrisentan tablets ? " )
If you miss a menstrual period , or think you might be pregnant , call your doctor right away .
• It is not known if ambrisentan tablets passes into your breast milk .
You should not breastfeed if you are taking ambrisentan tablets .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take ambrisentan tablets .
What are the possible side effects of ambrisentan tablets ?
Ambrisentan tablets can cause serious side effects including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about ambrisentan tablets ? "
• Swelling all over the body ( fluid retention ) can happen within weeks after starting ambrisentan tablets .
Tell your doctor right away if you have any unusual weight gain , tiredness , or trouble breathing while taking ambrisentan tablets .
These may be symptoms of a serious health problem .
You may need to be treated with medicine or need to go to the hospital .
• Decreased sperm count .
Decreased sperm counts have happened in some men taking a medicine that is like ambrisentan tablets .
A decreased sperm count may affect the ability to father a child .
Tell your doctor if being able to have children is important to you .
• Low red blood cell levels ( anemia ) can happen during the first weeks after starting ambrisentan tablets .
If this happens , you may need a blood transfusion .
Your doctor will do blood tests to check your red blood cells before starting ambrisentan tablets .
Your doctor may also do these tests during treatment with ambrisentan tablets .
The most common side effects of ambrisentan tablets include : • swelling of hands , legs , ankles and feet ( peripheral edema ) • stuffy nose ( nasal congestion ) • inflamed nasal passages ( sinusitis ) • hot flashes or getting red in the face ( flushing ) Some medicines that are like ambrisentan tablets can cause liver problems .
Tell your doctor if you get any of these symptoms of a liver problem while taking ambrisentan tablets : • loss of appetite • nausea or vomiting • fever • achiness • generally do not feel well • pain in the upper right stomach ( abdominal ) area • yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes • dark urine • itching Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of ambrisentan tablets .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC , Pharmacovigilance at 1 - 855 - 332 - 0731 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
How should I store ambrisentan tablets ?
Store ambrisentan tablets at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) , in the package it comes in .
Keep ambrisentan tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use ambrisentan tablets Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use ambrisentan tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give ambrisentan tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about ambrisentan tablets .
If you would like more information , ask your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about ambrisentan tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in ambrisentan tablets ?
Active ingredient : ambrisentan .
Inactive Ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
The 5 mg and 10 mg tablets are film - coated with a coating material containing FD & C Red # 40 aluminum lake , polyethylene glycol , polyvinyl alcohol , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Ambrisentan Tablets , 5 mg also contain FD & C Blue # 2 .
Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC , Bensalem , PA 19020 Other brands noted herein are the property of their respective owners .
OS052 - 05 MG REV . 1218 For more information call 1 - 888 - 417 - 3172 or go to www . ambrisentanrems . us . com or www . sigmapharm . com .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised December 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 5 mg Tablet Container Label NDC 42794 - 051 - 08 Ambrisentan Tablets , 5 mg R x only Each tablet contains 5 mg of ambrisentan .
30 tablets DISPENSER : Dispense the attached Medication Guide to each patient .
Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Tablet Container Label NDC 42794 - 052 - 08 Ambrisentan Tablets , 10 mg R x only Each tablet contains 10 mg of ambrisentan .
30 tablets DISPENSER : Dispense the attached Medication Guide to each patient .
Sigmapharm Laboratories , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
