Active ingredients Camphor 4 . 8 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 2 % Menthol 2 . 6 % Purpose Camphor - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil - Cough suppressant Menthol - Cough suppressant & topical analgesic Uses • when applied to chest and throat , temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with the common cold • when applied to muscles and joints , temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Warnings For external use only ; avoid contact with eyes Do not use • by mouth • in nostrils • on wounds or damaged skin • with tight bandages Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema When using this product , do not heat , microwave , or add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • muscle aches and pains worsen , persist for more than 7 days , or clear up and occur again within a few days • cough persists for more than 1 week , tends to recur , or is accompanied by fever , rash , or persistent headache .
A persistent cough could be a sign of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • see important warning under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years and over : • for cough suppression • rub a thick layer on the throat & chest • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • keep clothing loose about throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to three times daily , or as directed by a doctor • for muscle / joint minor aches and pains , apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years : do not use Inactive ingredients fragrance , thymol , turpentine oil , white petrolatum Questions ?
Call : 1 - 877 - 636 - 2677 Monday through Friday from 9 a . m . to 5 p . m . EST .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
