Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Use for the temporary relief of pain due to : • canker sores • cold sores • fever blisters • minor irritation of the mouth and gums • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures or orthodontic appliances Warnings Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed • do not use for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tube on score mark • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to the affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : ask a dentist or doctor • for denture irritation apply a thin layer to the affected area ; do not reinsert dental work until irritation / pain is relieved ; rinse mouth well after reinserting Other information Do not use if tip is cut prior to opening .
This preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted .
Do not use continuously .
Inactive ingredients Cellulose Gum , Gelatin , Menthol , Methyl Salicylate , Pectin , Petrolatum , Polyethylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin .
Questions or comments ?
1 - 877 - 777 - 2743 DISTRIBUTED BY : WALGREEN CO .
200 WILMOT RD . , DEERFIELD , IL 60015 100 % SATISFACTION GUARANTEED walgreens . com MADE IN U . S . A . Well at Walgreens MAXIMUM STRENGTH Oral Anesthetic Paste Benzocaine 20 % / Oral Pain Reliever NET WT 0 . 42 OZ ( 12 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
