Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc oxide * 25 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply liberally to face and body 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients caprylic / capric triglyceride * , coco - caprylate / caprate * , polyglyceryl - 3 polyricinoleate * , isostearic acid * , polylactic acid * , coconut alkanes * , sodium - phospho - magnesium silicate , carthamus tinctorius ( safflower ) oleosomes * , water / eau , picea abies extract , propanediol * , titanium dioxide , stearic acid , alumina , cerium dioxide , silica , aluminum hydroxide , polyhydroxystearic acid , May contain black , yellow , red iron oxides ( CI 77499 , CI 77492 , CI 77491 ) , phytic acid , sodium hydroxide .
Questions or comments ?
718 - 481 - 2628 Monday - Friday 9 am - 5 pm * Denotes ingredients that are Ecocert ® certified organic .
Distributed by : CyberDERM Laboratories Inc .
650 - 1600 Carling Avenue Ottawa , ON K1Z 1G3 Canada Made in Canada cyberderm made with love by the sunscreen company ™ Simply Zinc Ultra Transparent sunscreen lotion made with 25 % zinc oxide with Certified Organic Bio UVA Ultra and Sheer Illuminating Tint UVA / UVB Broad Spectrum SPF 50 helps prevent sunburn 50 mL ( 1 . 7 fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
