Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc oxide * 25 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on broken skin When using this product avoid contact eyes .
If contact occurs , rinse thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , call a Poison Control Center or get medical help or right away .
Directions Adults and children over 6 months of age • Apply liberally to face and body 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Non - medicinal ingredients caprylic / capric triglyceride * , coco - caprylate / caprate * , polyglyceryl - 3 polyricinoleate * , isostearic acid * , polylactic acid * , coconut alkanes * , sodium - phospho - magnesium silicate , carthamus tinctorius oleosomes * , water / eau , picea abies extract , propanediol * , titanium dioxide , stearic acid , alumina , cerium dioxide , silica , aluminum hydroxide , polyhydroxystearic acid .
Questions ?
718 - 481 - 2628 Monday - Friday 9 am - 5 pm Distributed by : Cyberderm Laboratories Incorporated 650 - 1600 Carling Avenue Ottawa , ON K1Z 1G3 Canada Made in Canada www . thesunscreencompany . com cyberderm made with love by the sunscreen company ™ Simply Zinc Lite Transparent sunscreen lotion made with 25 % zinc oxide with Certified Organic Bio UVA Ultra and Sheer Illuminating Tint UVA / UVB Broad Spectrum SPF 50 helps prevent sunburn 100 mL ( 3 . 4 fl oz ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
