Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc Oxide * 20 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this productkeep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor ifrash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children . If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Adults and children over 6 months of age • Apply liberally to face and body 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply at least every 2 hours • Use a water - resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging . To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients Caprylic / capric triglyceride , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Myrica Cerifera ( Bayberry ) Fruit Wax , Vegetable oil , Hydrogenated vegetable oil , Euphorbia Cerifera ( Candelilla ) Wax , Lauryl laurate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Behenyl behenate , Polyglyceryl - 10 stearate , Sodium stearoyl lactylate , Glyceryl Isostearate , d - alpha Tocopherol .
Questions ?
718 - 481 - 2628 .
Monday - Friday , 9 am - 5 pm Distributed by Cyberderm Laboratories , Inc .
650 - 1600 Carling Avenue Ottawa , ON K1Z 1G3 Made in Canada AVA ISA Sun Lip Sun Whip ® Clear Sunshine melt - on - contact all mineral lip balm SPF 15 Broad Spectrum UVA / UVB Protection made with 20 % zinc oxide 10 ml ( . 33 fl oz ) NPN 80097041 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
