BOXED WARNING SECTION WARNING : Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine due to a CYP2D6 polymorphism .
Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
DESCRIPTION SECTION Each tablet contains : Acetaminophen , USP … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ..
300 mg Codeine Phosphate , USP … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ... 30 mg ( Warning : May be habit forming ) Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , crospovidone , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch and stearic acid .
Acetaminophen and codeine is supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Acetaminophen , 4 ' - hydroxyacetanlllde , IS a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : Codeine phosphate : 7 , 8 - didehydro - 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - l7 - methylmorphinan - 6α - ol phosphate ( 1 : 1 ) ( salt ) hemihydrate , a white crystalline powder , is a narcotic analgesic and antitussive .
It has the following structural formula : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY SECTION Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets combines the analgesic effects of a centrally acting analgesic , codeine , with a peripherally acting analgesic , acetaminophen .
Pharmacokinetics The behavior on the individual components is described below .
Codeine Codeine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
It is rapidly distributed from the intravascular spaces to the various body tissues , with preferential uptake by parenchymatous organs such as the liver , spleen and kidney .
Codeine crosses the blood - brain barrier , and is found in fetal tissue and breast milk .
The plasma concentration does not correlate with brain concentration or relief of pain : however , codeine is not bound to plasma proteins and does not accumulate in body tissues .
The plasma half - life is about 2 . 9 hours .
The elimination of codeine is primarily via the kidneys , and about 90 % of an oral dose is excreted by the kidneys within 24 hours of dosing .
The urinary secretion products consist of free and glucuronide ( about 70 % ) .
free and conjugated morphine ( about 10 % ) , normorphine ( 4 % ) and hydrocodone ( 1 % ) .
The remainder of the dose is excreted in the feces .
At therapeutic doses , the analgesic effect reaches a peak within 2 hours and persists between 4 and 6 hours .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Acetaminophen Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS & USAGE SECTION Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP are indicated for the relief of mild to moderately severe pain CONTRAINDICATIONS SECTION Codeine - containing products are contraindicated for post - operative pain management in children who have undergone tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy .
Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to codeine or acetaminophen .
WARNINGS SECTION Hepatotoxicity Acetaminophen has been associated with cases of acute liver failure , at times resulting in liver transplant and death .
Most of the cases of liver injury are associated with the use of acetaminophen at doses that exceed 4000 milligrams per day , and often involve more than one acetaminophen - containing product .
The excessive intake of acetaminophen may be intentional to cause self - harm or unintentional as patients attempt to obtain more pain relief or unknowingly take other acetaminophen - containing products .
The risk of acute liver failure is higher in individuals with underlying liver disease and in individuals who ingest alcohol while taking acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to look for acetaminophen or APAP on package labels and not to use more than one product that contains acetaminophen .
Instruct patients to seek medical attention immediately upon ingestion of more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day , even if they feel well .
Serious skin reactions Rarely , acetaminophen may cause serious skin reactions such as acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome ( SJS ) , and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , which can be fatal .
Patients should be informed about the signs of serious skin reactions , and use of the drug should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received codeine in the post - operative period following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine ( i . e . , multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 2D6 of high morphine concentrations ) .
Deaths have also occurred in nursing infants who were exposed to high levels of morphine in breast milk because their mothers were ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine [ see Precautions , Nursing Mothers ] .
Some individuals may be ultra - rapid metabolizers because of a specific CYP2D6 genotype ( gene duplications denoted as * 1 / * 1 xN or * 1 / * 2 xN ) .
The prevalence of this CYP2D6 phenotype varies widely and has been estimated at 0 . 5 to 1 % in Chinese and Japanese , 0 . 5 to 1 % in Hispanics , 1 to 10 % in Caucasians , 3 % in African Americans , and 16 to 28 % in North Africans , Ethiopians and Arabs .
Data are not available for other ethnic groups .
These individuals convert codeine into its active metabolite , morphine , more rapidly and completely than other people .
This rapid conversion results in higher than expected serum morphine levels .
Even at labeled dosage regimens , individuals who are ultra - rapid metabolizers may have life - threatening or fatal respiratory depression or experience signs of overdose ( such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing ) [ see Overdosage ] .
Children with obstructive sleep apnea who are treated with codeine for post - tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy pain may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine that has been rapidly metabolized to morphine .
Codeine - containing products are contraindicated for post - operative pain management in all pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy [ see Contraindications ] .
When prescribing codeine - containing products , healthcare providers should choose the lowest effective dose for the shortest period of time and inform patients and caregivers about these risks and the signs of morphine overdose [ see Overdosage ] .
Hypersensitivity / anaphylaxis There have been post - marketing reports of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis associated with use of acetaminophen .
Clinical signs include swelling of the face , mouth and throat , respiratory distress , urticaria , rash , pruritus and vomiting .
There were infrequent reports of life - threatening anaphylaxis requiring emergency medical attention .
Instruct patients to discontinue Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP immediately and seek medical care if they experience these symptoms .
Do not prescribe Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP for patients with acetaminophen allergy .
In the presence of head injury or other intracranial lesions , the respiratory depressant effects of codeine and other narcotics may be markedly enhanced , as well as their capacity for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure .
Narcotics also produce other CNS depressant effects , such as drowsiness , that may further obscure the clinical course of the patients with head injuries .
Codeine or other narcotics may obscure signs on which to judge the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Codeine is habit forming and potentially abusable .
Consequently , the extended use of this product is not recommended .
PRECAUTIONS SECTION General Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets should be prescribed with caution in certain special - risk patients , such as the elderly or debilitated , and those with severe impairment of renal or hepatic function , head injuries , elevated intracranial pressure , acute abdominal conditions , hypothyroidism , urethral stricture , Addison ' s disease , or prostatic hypertrophy .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS SECTION • • Do not take Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP if you are allergic to any of its ingredients .
• • If you develop signs of allergy such as a rash or difficulty breathing , stop taking Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP and contact your healthcare provider immediately .
• • Do not take more than 4000 milligrams of acetaminophen per day .
Call your doctor if you took more than the recommended dose .
Codeine may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery .
Such tasks should be avoided while taking this product .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and should be avoided .
Codeine may be habit forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Advise patients that some people have a genetic variation that results in codeine changing into morphine more rapidly and completely than other people .
Most people are unaware of whether they are an ultra - rapid codeine metabolizer or not .
These higher - than - normal levels of morphine in the blood may lead to life - threatening or fatal respiratory depression or signs of overdose such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing .
Children with this genetic variation who were prescribed codeine after tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy for obstructive sleep apnea may be at greatest risk based on reports of several deaths in this population due to respiratory depression .
Codeine - containing products are contraindicated in all children who undergo tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy .
Advise caregivers of children receiving codeine - containing products for other reasons to monitor for signs of respiratory depression .
Nursing mothers taking codeine can also have higher morphine levels in their breast milk if they are ultra - rapid metabolizers .
These higher levels of morphine in breast milk may lead to life - threatening or fatal side effects in nursing babies .
Instruct nursing mothers to watch for signs of morphine toxicity in their infants including increased sleepiness ( more than usual ) , difficulty breastfeeding , breathing difficulties , or limpness , Instruct nursing mothers to talk to the baby ' s doctor immediately if they notice these signs and , if they cannot reach the doctor right away , to take the baby to an emergency room or call 911 ( or local emergency services ) .
Laboratory Tests In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions This drug may enhance the effects of other narcotic analgesics , alcohol , general anesthetics , tranquilizers such as chlordiazepoxide , sedative - hypnotics , or other CNS depressants , causing increased CNS depression .
Drug and Laboratory Test Interactions Codeine may increase serum amylase levels .
Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen and codeine have a potential for carcinogenesis or mutagenesis .
No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether acetaminophen has a potential for impairment of fertility .
Acetaminophen and codeine have been found to have no mutagenic potential using the Ames Salmonella - Microsomal Activation test , the Basc test on Drosophila germ cells , and the Micronucleus test on mouse bone marrow .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C Codeine : A study in rats and rabbits reported no teratogenic effect of codeine administered during the period of organogenesis in doses ranging from 5 to 120 mg / kg .
In the rat , doses at the 120 mg / kg level , in the toxic range for the adult animal , were associated with an increase in embryo resorption at the time of implantation .
In another study a single 100 mg / kg dose of codeine administered to pregnant mice reportedly resulted in delayed ossification in the offspring .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Dependence has been reported in newborns whose mothers took opiates regularly during pregnancy .
Withdrawal signs include irritability , excessive crying , tremors , hyperreflexia , fever , vomiting and diarrhea .
These signs usually appear during the first few days of life .
Labor and Delivery Narcotic analgesics cross the placental barrier .
The closer to delivery and the larger the dose used , the greater the possibility of respiratory depression in the newborn .
Narcotic analgesics should be avoided during labor if delivery of a premature infant is anticipated .
If the mother has received narcotic analgesics during labor , newborn infants should be observed closely for signs of respiratory depression .
Resuscitation may be required ( see Overdosage ) .
The effect of codeine , if any , on the later growth development and functional maturation of the child is unknown .
Nursing Mothers Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of its effect on nursing infants is not known .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Codeine is secreted into human milk .
In women with normal codeine metabolism ( normal CYP2D6 activity ) , the amount of codeine secreted into human milk is low and dose - dependent .
Despite the common use of codeine products to manage postpartum pain , reports of adverse events in infants are rare .
However , some women are ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine .
These women achieve higher - than - expected serum levels of codeine ' s active metabolite , morphine , leading to higher - than - expected levels of morphine in breast milk and potentially dangerously high serum morphine levels in their breastfed infants Therefore , maternal use of codeine can potentially lead to serious adverse reactions including death , in nursing infants .
The risk of infant exposure to codeine and morphine through breast milk should be weighed against the benefits of breastfeeding for both the mother and baby .
Caution should be exercised when codeine is administered to a nursing woman .
If a codeine containing product is selected , the lowest dose should be prescribed for the shortest period of time to achieve the desired clinical effect .
Mothers using codeine should be informed about when to seek immediate medical care , and how to identify the signs and symptoms of neonatal toxicity , such as drowsiness or sedation , difficulty breastfeeding , breathing difficulties , and decreased tone , in their baby .
Nursing mothers who are ultra - rapid metabolizers may also experience overdose symptoms such as extreme sleepiness , confusion , or shallow breathing .
Prescribers should closely monitor mother - infant pairs and notify treating pediatricians about the use of codeine during breastfeeding ( See Warnings – Death Related to Ultra - Rapid Metabolism of Codeine to Morphine ) .
Pediatric Use Respiratory depression and death have occurred in children with obstructive sleep apnea who received codeine in the post - operative period following tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy and had evidence of being ultra - rapid metabolizers of codeine ( i . e . , multiple copies of the gene for cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 or high morphine concentrations ) .
These children may be particularly sensitive to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine that has been rapidly metabolized to morphine .
Codeine - containing products are contraindicated for post - operative pain management in all pediatric patients undergoing tonsillectomy and / or adenoidectomy [ see Contraindications and Warnings ] .
ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION The most frequently observed adverse reactions include drowsiness , lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , shortness of breath , nausea and vomiting .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in non - ambulatory patients , and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include allergic reactions , euphoria , dysphoria , constipation , abdominal pain , pruritus , rash , thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis .
At higher doses codeine has most of the disadvantages of morphine including respiratory depression .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE SECTION Controlled Substance Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets are classified as a Schedule III controlled substance .
Drug Abuse and Dependence Codeine can produce drug dependence of the morphine type and , therefore , has the potential for being abused .
Psychological dependence , physical dependence and tolerance may develop upon repeated administration , and it should be prescribed and administered with the same degree of caution appropriate to the use of other oral narcotic medications .
OVERDOSAGE SECTION Following an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from codeine or acetaminophen .
Signs and Symptoms : Toxicity from codeine poisoning includes the opioid triad of : pinpoint pupils , depression of respiration and loss of consciousness .
Convulsions may occur .
In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma and coagulation defects may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
Treatment : A single or multiple drug overdose with acetaminophen and codeine is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered .
For respiratory depression due to overdosage or unusual sensitivity to codeine phosphate , parenteral naloxone is a specific and effective antagonist .
Gastric decontamination with activated charcoal should be administered just prior to N - acetylcysteine ( NAC ) to decrease systemic absorption if acetaminophen ingestion is known or suspected to have occurred within a few hours of presentation .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained immediately if the patient presents 4 hours or more after ingestion to assess potential risk of hepatotoxicity ; acetaminophen levels drawn less then 4 hours post - ingestion may be misleading .
To obtain the best possible outcome , NAC should be administered as soon as possible where impending or evolving liver injury is suspected .
Intravenous NAC may be administered when circumstances preclude oral administration .
Vigorous supportive therapy is required in severe intoxication .
Procedures to limit the continuing absorption of the drug must be readily performed since the hepatic injury is dose dependent and occurs early in the course of intoxication .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION SECTION Important Dosage and Administration Instructions Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( see WARNINGS ) .
Initiate the dosing regimen for each patient individually , taking into account the patient ' s severity of pain , patient response , prior analgesic treatment experience , and risk factors for addiction , abuse , and misuse ( see WARNINGS ) .
Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression , especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and following dosage increases with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets and adjust the dosage accordingly ( see WARNINGS ) .
Patient Access to Naloxone for the Emergency Treatment of Opioid Overdose Discuss the availability of naloxone for the emergency treatment of opioid overdose with the patient and caregiver and assess the potential need for access to naloxone , both when initiating and renewing treatment with acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets ( see WARNINGS , LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION ; PRECAUTIONS , INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS / CAREGIVERS ) .
Inform patients and caregivers about the various ways to obtain naloxone as permitted by individual state naloxone dispensing and prescribing regulations ( e . g . , by prescription , directly from a pharmacist , or as part of a community - based program ) .
Consider prescribing naloxone , based on the patient ’ s risk factors for overdose , such as concomitant use of CNS depressants , a history of opioid use disorder , or prior opioid overdose .
The presence of risk factors for overdose should not prevent the proper management of pain in any given patient ( see WARNINGS , ADDICTION , ABUSE , AND MISUSE , LIFE - THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION , and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS ) .
Consider prescribing naloxone when the patient has household members ( including children ) or other close contacts at risk for accidental ingestion or overdose .
Initial Dosage Initiating Treatment with Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets Dosage should be adjusted according to severity of pain and response of the patient .
However , it should be kept in mind that tolerance to codeine can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related .
Adult doses of codeine higher than 60 mg are associated with an increased incidence of adverse reactions and are not associated with greater efficacy .
The usual adult dosage is : Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets ( codeine 30 mg and acetaminophen 300 mg ) : Take 1 to 2 tablets every 4 hours as needed for pain .
Single Doses ( Range ) Maximum 24 - Hour Dose Codeine Phosphate 30 mg to 60 mg 360 mg Acetaminophen 300 mg to 1 , 000 mg 4 , 000 mg The prescriber must determine the number of tablets per dose , and the maximum number of tablets per 24 hours , based upon the above dosage guidance .
This information should be conveyed in the prescription .
Conversion from Other Opioids to Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets There is inter - patient variability in the potency of opioid drugs and opioid formulations .
Therefore , a conservative approach is advised when determining the total daily dosage of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets .
It is safer to underestimate a patient ’ s 24 - hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage than to overestimate the 24 - hour acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage and manage an adverse reaction due to overdose .
Titration and Maintenance of Therapy Individually titrate acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to a dose that provides adequate analgesia and minimizes adverse reactions .
Continually reevaluate patients receiving acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets to assess the maintenance of pain control and the relative incidence of adverse reactions , as well as monitoring for the development of addiction , abuse , or misuse ( see WARNINGS ) .
Frequent communication is important among the prescriber , other members of the healthcare team , the patient , and the caregiver / family during periods of changing analgesic requirements , including initial titration .
If the level of pain increases after dosage stabilization , attempt to identify the source of increased pain before increasing the acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets dosage .
If unacceptable opioid - related adverse reactions are observed , consider reducing the dosage .
Adjust the dosage to obtain an appropriate balance between management of pain and opioid - related adverse reactions .
Safe Reduction or Discontinuation of Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets Do not abruptly discontinue acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets in patients who may be physically dependent on opioids .
Rapid discontinuation of opioid analgesics in patients who are physically dependent on opioids has resulted in serious withdrawal symptoms , uncontrolled pain , and suicide .
Rapid discontinuation has also been associated with attempts to find other sources of opioid analgesics , which may be confused with drug - seeking for abuse .
Patients may also attempt to treat their pain or withdrawal symptoms with illicit opioids , such as heroin , and other substances .
When a decision has been made to decrease the dose or discontinue therapy in an opioid - dependent patient taking acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets , there are a variety of factors that should be considered , including the dose of acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets the patient has been taking , the duration of treatment , the type of pain being treated , and the physical and psychological attributes of the patient .
It is important to ensure ongoing care of the patient and to agree on an appropriate tapering schedule and follow - up plan so that patient and provider goals and expectations are clear and realistic .
When opioid analgesics are being discontinued due to a suspected substance use disorder , evaluate and treat the patient , or refer for evaluation and treatment of the substance use disorder .
Treatment should include evidence - based approaches , such as medication assisted treatment of opioid use disorder .
Complex patients with co - morbid pain and substance use disorders may benefit from referral to a specialist .
There are no standard opioid tapering schedules that are suitable for all patients .
Good clinical practice dictates a patient - specific plan to taper the dose of the opioid gradually .
For patients on acetaminophen and codeine phosphate tablets who are physically opioid - dependent , initiate the taper by a small enough increment ( e . g . , no greater than 10 % to 25 % of the total daily dose ) to avoid withdrawal symptoms , and proceed with dose - lowering at an interval of every 2 to 4 weeks .
Patients who have been taking opioids for briefer periods of time may tolerate a more rapid taper .
It may be necessary to provide the patient with lower dosage strengths to accomplish a successful taper .
Reassess the patient frequently to manage pain and withdrawal symptoms , should they emerge .
Common withdrawal symptoms include restlessness , lacrimation , rhinorrhea , yawning , perspiration , chills , myalgia , and mydriasis .
Other signs and symptoms also may develop , including irritability , anxiety , backache , joint pain , weakness , abdominal cramps , insomnia , nausea , anorexia , vomiting , diarrhea , or increased blood pressure , respiratory rate , or heart rate .
If withdrawal symptoms arise , it may be necessary to pause the taper for a period of time or raise the dose of the opioid analgesic to the previous dose , and then proceed with a slower taper .
In addition , monitor patients for any changes in mood , emergence of suicidal thoughts , or use of other substances .
When managing patients taking opioid analgesics , particularly those who have been treated for a long duration and / or with high doses for chronic pain , ensure that a multimodal approach to pain management , including mental health support ( if needed ) , is in place prior to initiating an opioid analgesic taper .
A multimodal approach to pain management may optimize the treatment of chronic pain , as well as assist with the successful tapering of the opioid analgesic ( see WARNINGS ; WITHDRAWAL , DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
HOW SUPPLIED SECTION Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP 300 mg / 30 mg are white , round , flat , beveled edged tablets debossed “ IP 33 ” on obverse and “ 3 ” on reverse .
They are available as follows : Bottles of 100 : NDC 65162 - 033 - 10 Bottles of 500 : NDC 65162 - 033 - 50 Bottles of 1000 : NDC 65162 - 033 - 11 Store Acetaminophen and Codeine Phosphate Tablets , USP 300 mg / 30 mg at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 835 - 5472 Monday through Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Manufactured by : Amneal Pharmaceuticals Hauppauge , NY 11788 Rev . 10 - 2013 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
