Drug Facts Active ingredients Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 5 % Zinc Chloride 0 . 15 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Oral pain reliever Astringent Use • for the temporary relief of oral pain due to minor irritation or injury of the mouth and gums Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine , or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , reash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tube on score mark • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply a small amount of the product to the cavity and around the gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
• children between 2 and 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not use if tip is cut prior to opening • this preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted • do not use continuously • this formula will stay in place for extended duration of relief • avoid using toothpaste or drinking soft drinks or fruit juices for at least one hour after applying Inactive ingredientsblue 1 , cellulose gum , gelatin , methyl salicylate , mineral oil , pectin , petrolatum , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID 30 HUNTER LANE CAMP HILL , PA 17011 RITE AID ® PHARMACY SEVERE toothache & gum relief immediate relief of intense pain fast acting GEL ORAL PAIN RELIEVER / ASTRINGENT triple medicated • 20 % Benzocainefor toothache pain relief • Astringent to relieve gum irritation • Menthol to soothe gums NET WT 0 . 25 OZ ( 7 . 0 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
