Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 10 % Purpose Oral Pain Reliever Use • for the temporary relief of pain due to toothaches Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Carefully remove gel cushion from blister .
Gently mold iwth fingers until soft .
Apply to affected tooth / gum area and gently press for 5 - 10 seconds to mold for a comfortable fit .
Gel cushion will stay in place and dissolve slowly in mouth .
• Adults and children 12 years of age and older : use up to 3 times daily or as directed by dentist or doctor .
• Children under 12 years of age : ask a dentist or doctor • Children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information Do not use if blister card is broken .
This preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted .
Do not use continuously .
These toothache cushions are designed to completely dissolve in place .
Store at room temperature 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Cellulose Gum , Flavor , Menthol , Polyethylene Glycol DISTRIBUTED BY : RITE AID 30 HUNTER LANE CAMP HILL , PA 17011 RITE AID ® PHARMACY MEDICATED tooth & gum pain relief cushions benzocaine 10 % • oral pain reliever immediate pain relief soothes & comforts 8 GEL CUSHIONS , 0 . 5 g EACH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
