Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % Purpose Oral Pain Reliever Use • for the temporary relief of pain due to toothaches Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash , fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tube on scoremark • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply a small amount of product to the cavity and around the the gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
• children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not use if tip is cut prior to opening • this preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a tempory expedient until a dentist can be consulted • do not use continuously Inactive ingredients flavor , polyethylene glycol , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE , IL 60057 QUESTIONS " 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 topcare @ topco . com www . topcarebrand . com TopCare ® health ™ MAXIMUM STRENGTH Oral Pain Relief Gel BENZOCAINE 20 % NET WT 0 . 5 OZ ( 14 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
