Drug Facts Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Uses ● proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) ● helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use ● for effective relief of itching , burning and cracking .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product Avoid contact with the eyes Do Not Use Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Stop Use and Ask a Doctor if Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks If Pregnant or Breast - feeding If Pregnant or Breast - feeding ask a health professional before use Inactive ingredients Cetostearyl alcohol , ethylparaben , glycerol , mineral oil , glyceryl monostearate , petrolatum , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate Directions ● wash affected area and dry thoroughly ● apply a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor ● supervise children in the use of this product ● for athlete ’ s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
● for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult doctor .
● to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) ● this product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information ● store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Distributed By Distrubuted By Meijer Distribution , Inc .
Grand Rapids , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Made in China This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC , owner of the registered trademarks Tough Actin and Tinactin .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
