Active ingredient Clotrimazole 1 % Purpose Antifungal Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , seek professional assistance or contact a Poison Control right away .
Uses Cures most athlete ’ s foot , jock itch and ringworm .
Relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort which accompany these conditions .
Warnings For External Use Only ● Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
● When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop Use and ask a Doctor if : • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for Athlete ' s foot or ringwork ) or 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly .
● Apply a thin layer of this product over affected area twice daily .
● Supervise children in the use of this product .
● For athlete ’ s foot , pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
● For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
● If conditions persists longer , ask a doctor .
● This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Inactive Ingredients Alcohol , Butylated Hydroxytoluene , Dimethyl Sulfoxide , Ethylparaben , Glycerol , Polyoxyethylene lauryl ether , Light Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Cetostearyl Alcohol , purified Water , mono and di - glycerides , edetate disodium Other Information • store at room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Questions or Comments ?
DISTRIBUTED BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www .
meijer . com Made in China This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer Healthcare LLC . , owner of the registered trademark Lotrimin ® .
If Pregnant or Breast - Feeding Ask a Health Professional before use .
Keep out of reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
