Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzalkonium chloride 0 . 02 % Benzocaine 20 % Zinc chloride 0 . 1 % Purpose Oral Antiseptic Oral Pain Reliever Oral Astringent Uses temporarily relieves of pain caused by : • canker sores • cold sores • fever blisters • minor irritation of the mouth and gums • to help protect against infection in minor oral irritation Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash , fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persist or worsen • sore mouth symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cut open tip of tube on score mark • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
• children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product .
• children under 2 years of age : do not use Inactive ingredients Allantoin , Carbomer , Edetate Disodium , Mentha Piperata ( Peppermint Oil ) , Polyethylene Glycol , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Propyl Gallate , Purified Water , PVP , Sodium Saccharin , Sorbic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 777 - 2473 MADE WITH PRIDE AND CARE FOR H - E - B ® SAN ANTONIO , TX 78204 H - E - B MOUTH SORE RELIEF FAST - ACTING GEL TRIPLE MEDICATED ORAL PAIN RELIEVER / ANTISEPTIC / ASTRINGENT NET WT 0 . 42 OZ ( 11 . 9 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
