Active Ingredients Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 3 . 1 % ......................
Topical Analgesic Menthol 6 . 0 % ....................... Topical Analgesic Methyl Salicylate 10 . 0 % ........ Topical Analgesic For External Use Only Allergy alert : If prone to allergic reaction from asprin or salicylates , consult a doctor before use Do not use : • On wounds or damaged skin • With a heating pad • If you are allergic to any ingredients of this product When using this product • Use only as directed • Avoid contact with eyes , mucous membranes or rashes • Do not bandage tighly • Do not use at the same time as other topical analgesics • Dispose of used patch in manner that keeps product away from childrens and pets .
Used patches still contain the drug product that can produce serious adverse effects if a child or pet chews or ingests this patch .
QUESTIONS Customer Care Help Line 1 - 866 - 326 - 1313 Stop use and consult a doctor • If rash , itching or excessive skin irritation develops • If condition worsens • if symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again with a few days Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Uses For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with arthritis , simple backache , strains , sprains , and bruises .
Directions Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Clean and dry affected area .
Remove patch from film , apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Remove patch from the skin after at most , 8 - hour application .
Children under 12 years of age : consult physician .
Inactive Ingredients Hydrogenated Poly , Pentaerythrityl Tetra - di - t - butyl Hydroxyhydrocinnamate , Petroleum , Styrene / Isoprene Copolymer Indication and Usage For temporary relief of minor aches and pains .
Pain Relief Patch Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other Information : Store in clean , dy place outside of direct sunlight .
Protect from excessive moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
