CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : PureVit DualFe Plus is unique in that it utilizes two different forms of iron , i . e . , Ferrous Fumarate and Polysaccharide Iron Complex ( as cell - contracted akaganeite ) , making available a total of 106 mg of elemental iron per capsule as follows : Ferrous Fumarate ( anhydrous ) 162 mg Polysaccharide Iron Complex ( PIC ) 115 . 2 mg Subclinical B - Group vitamin deficiencies have greatly increased in recent years due to changes in dietetic habits , increase in the use of sugar , and the excessive milling of flour and cereals .
With thiamine deficiencies so prevalent in a healthy populace , it is self - evident that the unwell person is particularly prone to thiamine avitaminosis .
This is true of the anemic individual with his or her poor appetite and disturbed digestive functions .
Folic acid is best known for its role in megaloblastic anemias .
Zinc has been recognized in the nutrition of animals and humans , even though the evidence for an uncomplicated zinc deficiency in humans is limited .
Ferrous Fumarate : Provides about 53 mg of elemental iron per dose .
Ferrous Fumarate is an anhydrous salt of a combination of ferrous iron and fumaric acid , containing 33 % of iron per weight .
The acute toxicity in experimental animals is low and Ferrous Fumarate is well tolerated clinically .
As a ferrous salt , it is more efficiently absorbed in the duodenum .
Ferrous Fumarate contrasts very favorably with the availability of the 20 % of elemental iron of ferrous sulfate , and the 13 % of elemental iron of ferrous gluconate .
Polysaccharide Iron Complex : Provides about 53 mg of elemental iron , as a cell - contracted akaganeite .
It is a product of ferric iron complexed to a low molecular weight polysaccharide .
This polysaccharide is produced by extensive hydrolysis of starch and is a dark brown powder that dissolves in water to form a very dark brown solution , which is virtually odorless and tasteless .
Folic Acid : Folic Acid is one of the most important hematopoetic agents necessary for proper regeneration of the blood - forming elements and their function .
Folic acid is a precursor to a large family of compounds which serve as coenzymes in carbon transfer reactions .
These reactions are required for the synthesis of purine and pyrimidine bases , inter - conversion of glycine and serine , biosynthesis of methionine methyl groups and degradation of histidine .
Additionally , folic acid increases jejunal glycolytic enzymes and is involved in the desaturation and hydroxylation of long - chain fatty acids in the brain .
A deficiency in folic acid results in megaloblastic anemia .
INDICATIONS : PureVit DualFe Plus is indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia and folate deficiency as in extended convalescence , menorrhagia , pregnancy , puberty , excessive blood loss and advanced age .
Also for treatment of condition in which iron deficiency and vitamin C deficiency occur together , along with a deficient intake or increased need for B - Complex vitamins in chronic and acute illness , as well as cases of metabolic stress , and in convalescence .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : PureVit DualFe Plus is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients ; also , all iron compounds are contraindicated in patients with hemosiderosis , hemochromatosis , or hemolytic anemias .
Pernicious anemia is a contraindication , as folic acid may obscure its signs and symptoms .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of Iron - containing products is the leading cause of fatal poisoning of children under 6 .
Keep this product out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B 12 is deficient .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Folic Acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg - 0 . 4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations , remain progressive .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : No clinical studies have been performed in patients age 65 and over to determine whether older patients respond differently from younger patients .
Dosage should always begin at the low end of the dosage scale and should consider that elderly patients may have decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function , and of concomitant diseases .
Adverse Reactions : Folic Acid : Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Ferrous Fumarate : Gastrointestinal disturbances ( anorexia , nausea , diarrhea , constipation ) occur occasionally , but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy .
Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals , giving PureVit DualFe Plus after meals may control occasional gastrointestinal disturbances .
PureVit DualFe Plus is best absorbed when taken at bedtime .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report suspected side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
OVERDOSE : Iron : Signs and Symptoms : Iron is toxic .
Acute overdosage of iron may cause nausea and vomiting and , in severe cases , cardiovascular collapse and death .
Other symptoms include pallor and cyanosis , melena , shock , drowsiness and coma .
The estimated overdose of orally ingested iron is 300 mg / kg body weight .
When overdoses are ingested by children , severe reactions , including fatalities , have resulted .
PureVit DualFe Plus should be stored beyond the reach of children to prevent against accidental iron poisoning .
Keep this and all other drugs out of reach of children .
Treatment : For specific therapy , exchange transfusion and chelating agents should be used .
For general management , perform gastric lavage with sodium bicarbonate solution or milk .
Administer intravenous fluids and electrolytes and use oxygen .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults ( persons over 12 years of age ) , one ( 1 ) capsule daily , between meals , or as prescribed by a physician .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not administer to children under the age of 12 .
HOW SUPPLIED : PureVit DualFe Plus are yellow capsules imprinted horizontally " P - 112 " , bottles of 90 capsules NDC 59088 - 112 - 66 .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child resistant closure .
Store at 20 째 to 25 째 C ( 68 째 to 77 째 F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep in a cool , dry place .
Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
