Drug Facts Active ingredient Clotrimazole 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses ■ For the treatment of athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) .
■ Relieves itching , burning , cracking , scaling , and discomfort which accompanies these conditions .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes Do not use ■ on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor ■ for athlete ' s foot and ringworm - if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor ■ for jock itch - if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement in 2 weeks , discontinue use and consult a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Clean the affected area and dry thoroughly .
■ Apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor .
■ Supervise children in the use of this product .
■ For athlete ' s foot : Pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
■ For athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
■ For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
■ If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
■ This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Use under the direction of a medical practitioner Other information ■ Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) ■ avoid excessive heat ■ do not use if package is damaged Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Beta - Glucan , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Caprylyl Glycol , Cetearyl Alcohol , Dimethicone , Disodium EDTA , Ethyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Glyceryl Caprylate , Glyceryl Stearate , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Panthenol , PEG - 100 Stearate , PEG - 40 Stearate PEG - 8 , Polysorbate 60 , Propylene Glycol , Sholigopeptide - 1 , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Sodium Hydroxide , DL - alpha - tocopheryl acetate Mycozyl AC TM Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation San Fernando , CA 91340 For questions or information call toll - free : 1 - 877 - 921 - 7873 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
