RADIAURA SKIN RECOVERY CREAM Lidocaine HCI 3 % - Hydrocortisone Acetate 0 . 5 % Anti - Inflammatory Anesthetic for Relief of Skin Inflammation Radiaura Skin Recovery Cream was specifically formulated by well - known Radiation Oncologist Dr . Lauren Lukas MD .
This unique formulation is indicated for relief of redness , pain , itching , and discoloration associated with inflammation and skin burns .
For use after radiation treatment , cosmetic procedures , sun exposure , and for inflammatory skin conditions .
The main ingredients in Radiaura Skin Recovery Cream include lidocaine hydrochloride ( HCl ) 3 % and hydrocortisone acetate 0 . 5 % , as well as botanicals including curcumin ( from turmeric ) , tetrahydrocurcumin ( tetrahydrodiferuloylmethane , tetrahydrodemethoxydiferuloylmethane , tetrahydrobisdemethoxydiferuloylmethane - these are metabolites of curcumin from turmeric ) , boswellia serrata , copper - tripeptide , arbutin , calendula , camellia sinensis ( green tea leaf extract ) , and cucumis sativus ( cucumber extract ) .
It also includes ChitoClear ® chitosan which serves as a silicone substitute .
DESCRIPTION : Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone acetate has a chemical name pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 21 - ( acetyloxy ) - 11 , 17 - dihydroxy - ( 11β ) - , It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Radiaura Skin Recovery Cream Lidocaine HCl 3 % - Hydrocortisone Acetate 0 . 5 % Each gram contains Lidocaine HCl 30 mg , Hydrocortisone Acetate 5 mg .
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Lidocaine HCl 3 % ( 30 mg ) Hydrocortisone Acetate 0 . 5 % ( 5 mg ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Arbutin , Bis ( Tripeptide - 1 ) Copper Acetate , Bisabolol , Boswellia Serrata Extract , Brassica Campestris ( Rapeseed ) Sterols , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea ) Butter , Calendula Officinalis Flower Extract , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Cannabis Sativa ( Hemp ) Seed Oil , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Chitosan , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Coconut Alkanes , Cucumis Sativus ( Cucumber ) Fruit Extract , Curcuma Longa ( Turmeric ) Root Extract , D - alpha - tocopherol , Dextrose , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Jojoba Esters , Lecithin , PEG - 100 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Polyglyceryl - 3 Diisostearate , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Stearate , Squalane , Stearic Acid , Stearyl Alcohol , Tetrahydrodiferuloylmethane , Tetrahydrodemethoxydiferuloylmethane , Tetrahydrobisdemethoxydiferuloylmethane CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : MECHANISM OF ACTION : Product releases lidocaine to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
Hydrocortisone acetate provides relief of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses .
PHARMACOKINETICS : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation of the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjungation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of lidocaine is dependent of drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid - glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be the threshold for convulsive activity .
The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Thus , occlusive dressings may be a valuable therapeutic adjunct for treatment of resistant dermatoses .
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma protein in varying degrees .
Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
INDICATIONS : The product is used for the anti - inflammatory and anesthetic relief of redness , pain , itching , and discoloration due to inflammation and skin burns .
For the relief of redness , pain , itching , discoloration , inflammation and mild skin burns associated with radiation .
For use after radiation treatment , cosmetic procedures , sun exposure , and for inflammatory skin conditions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Product should not be used in patients with a history of sensitivity to any of its ingredients or adverse reactions to lidocaine or amide anesthetics , which usually do not cross - react with “ caine ” ester type anesthetics .
If excessive irritation and significant worsening occur , discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician .
Product and topical lidocaine should be used cautiously in those with impaired liver function , as well as the very ill or very elderly and those with significant liver disease .
Product should be used with caution in patients receiving antiarrhythmic drugs of Class I since the adverse effects are additive and generally synergistic .
Product is contraindicated for tuberculous or fungal lesions or skin vaccinia , varicella and acute herpes simplex .
Topical corticosteroids are contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components of the preparation .
WARNINGS / PRECAUTIONS : WARNINGS : CONCERNS RELATED TO ADVERSE EFFECTS : Methemoglobinemia : Has been reported with local anesthetics ; clinically significant methemoglobinemia requires immediate treatment along with discontinuation of the anesthetic and other oxidizing agents .
Onset may be immediate or delayed ( hours ) after anesthetic exposure .
Patients with G6PD deficiency , congenital or idiopathic methemoglobinemia , cardiac or pulmonary compromise , exposure to oxidizing agents or their metabolites , or infants < 6 months of age are more susceptible and should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of methemoglobinemia ( including pale , gray , or blue - colored skin ( cyanosis ) , headache , rapid pulse , shortness of breath , lightheadedness , fatigue ) .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Topical formulations of lidocaine may be absorbed to a greater extent through mucous membranes and abraded , fissured or irritated skin than through intact skin .
Product should not be ingested or applied into the mouth , inside of the nose or in the eyes .
Product should not be used in the ears .
Any situation where lidocaine penetrates beyond the tympanic membrane into the middle ear is contraindicated because of ototoxicity associated with lidocaine observed in animals when instilled in the middle ear .
Product should not come into contact with the eye or be applied into the eye because of the risk of severe eye irritation and the loss of eye surface sensation , which reduces protective reflexes and can lead to corneal irritation and possibly abrasion .
If eye contact occurs , rinse out the eye immediately with saline or water and protect the eye surface until sensation is restored .
PRECAUTIONS : If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
If extensive areas are treated , the possibility of systemic absorption exists .
Systemic absorption of topical steroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestation of Cushing ’ s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glycosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent steroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of potent topical steroids applied to a large surface area , or under an occlusive dressing , should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
If noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of the HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Children may absorb proportionately larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
If irritation develops , topical steroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential or the effect on fertility of topical corticosteroids .
Studies to determine mutagenicity with prednisolone and hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Studies of lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Reproduction studies have been performed for lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Corticosteroids are generally teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
The more potent corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Therefore , topical corticosteroids should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Drugs of this class should not be used extensively on pregnant patients , in large amounts , or for prolonged periods of time .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC USE : Safety and efficacy in children have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : During or immediately following application of product , there may be transient stinging or burning from open areas of skin , or transient blanching ( lightening ) , or erythema ( redness ) of the skin .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply product to the affected area ( s ) twice daily or as directed by a physician .
If the condition does not respond to repeated courses of product or should worsen , discontinue use and seek the advice of your physician .
Wash hands before and after application .
HOW SUPPLIED : Radiaura Skin Recovery Cream ( Lidocaine HCl 3 % - Hydrocortisone Acetate 0 . 5 % ) is supplied as a beige cream 3 oz .
( 85 g ) tube - NDC 59088 - 432 - 07 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Store at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
RADIAURA ® is a registered trademark of : Endirect ® - Los Angeles , CA 91403 ( 818 ) 293 - 7221 RADIAURA ® SKIN RECOVERY CREAM Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation San Fernando , CA 91340 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
