DESCRIPTION Purefoltin ™ is an orally administered prescription folate product for the dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels and Vitamin D supplementation due to Vitamin D deficiency .
Purefoltin ™ should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
Each tablet contains : Folate ( as folic acid ) … … … … … … … … ..
1700 mcg DFE † ( 1000 mcg folic acid ) Vitamin D 3 ( cholecalciferol ) … … … .... 125 mcg ( 5000 IU ) Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : lactose monohydrate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate , stearic acid , magnesium stearate .
† Dietary Folate Equivalent INDICATIONS AND DOSAGE Purefoltin ™ is indicated for dietary management of patients with unique nutritional needs requiring increased folate levels and Vitamin D supplementation .
Purefoltin ™ can be taken by women of childbearing age , pregnant women , and lactating and nonlactating mothers .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in vivo synthesis of the major biologically active metabolites of vitamin D occurs in two steps .
The first hydroxylation of ergocalciferol takes place in the liver ( to 25 - hydroxyvitamin D ) and the second in the kidneys ( to 1 , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D ) .
Vitamin D metabolites promote the active absorption of calcium and phosphorus by the small intestine , thus elevating serum calcium and phosphate levels sufficiently to permit bone mineralization .
Vitamin D metabolites also mobilize calcium and phosphate from bone and probably increase the reabsorption of calcium and perhaps also of phosphate by the renal tubules .
There is a time lag of 10 to 24 hours between the administration of vitamin D and the initiation of its action in the body due to the necessity of synthesis of the active metabolites in the liver and kidneys .
Parathyroid hormone is responsible for the regulation of this metabolism in the kidneys .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Purefoltin ™ is contraindicated in patients with hypercalcemia , malabsorption syndrome , abnormal sensitivity to the toxic effects of vitamin D , and hypervitaminosis D . WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Tell your doctor if you have : kidney problems , thyroid disease .
This medication should be used as directed during pregnancy or while breast - feeding .
Consult your doctor about the risks and benefits .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations progress .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
You should call your doctor for medical advice about serious adverse events .
To report adverse side effects or to obtain product information , contact PureTek Corporation , at 1 - 877 - 921 - 7873 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet daily or as directed by a healthcare practitioner .
Purefoltin ™ should be administered under the supervision of a licensed medical practitioner .
HOW SUPPLIED Purefoltin ™ Tablets are supplied as round , light yellow tablets with one side scored , the other side plain and dispensed in child - resistant bottles of 30 tablets ( NDC 59088 - 184 - 54 * ) .
* This product is a prescription - folate with or without other dietary ingredients that – due to increased folate levels ( AUG 2 1973 FR 20750 ) , requires an Rx on the label because of increased risk associated with masking of B12 deficiency ( pernicious anemia ) .
Based on our assessment of the risk of obscuring pernicious anemia , this product requires licensed medical supervision , an Rx status , and a National Drug Code ( NDC ) or similarly - formatted product code , as required by pedigree reporting requirements and supply - chain control as well as in some cases , for insurance - reimbursement applications .
All prescriptions using this product shall be pursuant to state statutes as applicable .
This is not an Orange Book product .
This product may be administered only under a physician ’ s supervision .
There are no implied or explicit claims on therapeutic equivalence STORAGE KEEP OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from heat , light , and moisture .
Tamper Evident : Do not use if seal is broken or missing Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation Panorama City , CA 91402 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 Purefoltin ™ List No . 18454 IAA Rev . 38307 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
