Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( linea pedis ) , ringworm ( linea corporis ) and jock itch ( linea cruris ) • relieves symptoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning and cracking For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; 2 weeks for jock itch Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch ; if conditions persists , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clean with a pin Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredients disteardimonium hectorite , isobutane , kaolin , SD alcohol 40 - B , zea mays ( corn ) starch Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel meijer MEDICATED athlete ' s foot Miconazole Nitrate | Antifungal Powder Spray TALC - FREE Cures most athlete ' s foot Relieves itching , cracking & burning NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
