For External Use Only • Discontinue use at least one hour prior to bath / shower / swimming ; do not use immediatelty after bath / shower / swimming .
• Allergy alert : if you are allergic or suspect you are allergic to the ingredients listed below , including chili perppers ..
consults with your physician before use .
Uses Temporary relief of minor pain associated with : • Arthiritis • Minor backache • Strains • Sprains • Bruises Purpose Temporary relief of minor pain associated with : arthritis , minor backache , muscle strains , muschle sprains , bruises Active Ingredients Capsaicin : 0 . 025 % ...........................
Topical Analgesic Inactive Ingredients : Hydrogenated Poly , Pentaerythrityl Tetra - di - t - butyl Hydroxyhydrocinnamate , Petroleum , Styrene / Isoprene Copolymer Directions for Use : For Use on Adults and Childrens 12 Years of Age or Older • Clean and dru affected area ; ensure area is fully dry before application • Remove patch from film • Apply to treatement site • Patch may be trimmerd to best fit treatment site ; trim patch before removing film • Wash hands after application • Discard after signle use Caution : • Take care when using on elderly ot incapacited persons • Do not use more than 8 hours • Do not use the Capsaicin Heat Patch more than 3 - 4 times daily • Do not exceed 7 days of continue use Keep Out of Reach of Children if swallowed , contact a poison control center immediately .
Storage and Care : • One time use only ; do not attempt to reuse the product • avoid storage in direct sunlight • Protect patch from excessive moisture Do Not Use : • On areas with sensitive skin , open wounds or previous burns • with pain rubs , medicated lotions , creams or oinments • with other forms of heat theraphy , including heating pads , or multiples of this treatment on a single treatement site Use Only as Directed : • Follow the below directions for use .
• Avoid contact with eyes , mucus membrances or skin rashes .
Stop Use immediately and Seek Medical Attention if : • Rash , itching or excessive skin irritation develops • Conditions worsens • Symptons persist more than 7 days • Symptoms clear , and reoccur within a few days QUESTIONS 866 - 326 - 1313 LABEL DIST .
BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION , INC .
GRAND RAPIDS , MI 49544 www . meijer . com Made in China [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
