DESCRIPTION Contains Lidocaine HCl 2 . 8 % in a mild acidic vehicle .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] INGREDIENTS : Each gram of Lidorex ™ 2 . 8 % Gel contains Lidocaine HCl USP 28 mg .
Inactive Ingredients include : Aloe Barbadensis ( Aloe Vera ) Leaf Juice , Citric Acid , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Methylparaben , PEG - 4 , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : MECHANISM OF ACTION : Lidorex ™ 2 . 8 % Gel releases Lidocaine from a mild acidic vehicle to stabilize the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby affecting local anesthetic action .
A mild acidic vehicle lowers pH to increase protection against alkaline irritants and to provide a favorable environment for healing .
PHARMACOKINETICS : Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration , and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver and metabolites and unchanged drugs are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to but less potent than , those of Lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of Lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of Lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 to 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of Lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of Lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which Lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter Lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect Lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of Lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / mL have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS : For temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes , insect bites , and minor skin irritation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Tuberculous or fungal lesions of skin vaccinia , varicella , and acute herpes simplex and in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
Lidocaine is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type .
WARNINGS : For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS : If irritation of sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Lidorex ™ 2 . 8 % Gel should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of Lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Studies of Lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects ; Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed for Lidocaine in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
NURSING MOTHERS : It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
PEDIATRIC USE : Dosage in pediatric patients would be reduced commensurate with age , body weight , and physical condition .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or may be the locus of abnormal sensation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED : Lidorex ™ 2 . 8 % Gel 3 . 5 oz .
( 100 g ) tube - NDC 59088 - 475 - 07 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
STORAGE AND HANDLING : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
Lidorex ™ Manufactured in the USA by : PureTek Corporation Panorama City , CA 91402 For questions or information call toll - free : 877 - 921 - 7873 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
