DESCRIPTION Sumatriptan tablets USP contain sumatriptan ( as the succinate ) , a selective 5 - hydroxytryptamine 1 receptor subtype agonist .
Sumatriptan succinate USP is chemically designated as 3 - [ 2 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] - N - methyl - indole - 5 - methanesulfonamide succinate ( 1 : 1 ) , and it has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C 14 H 21 N 3 O 2 S • C 4 H 6 O 4 , representing a molecular weight of 413 . 5 .
Sumatriptan succinate USP is a white to off - white powder that is readily soluble in water and in saline .
Each sumatriptan tablet USP for oral administration contains 35 , 70 , or 140 mg of sumatriptan succinate USP equivalent to 25 , 50 , or 100 mg of sumatriptan , respectively .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , lactose anhydrous , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Sumatriptan is an agonist for a vascular 5 - hydroxytryptamine 1 receptor subtype ( probably a member of the 5 - HT 1 D family ) having only a weak affinity for 5 - HT 1 A , 5 - HT 5 A , and 5 - HT 7 receptors and no significant affinity ( as measured using standard radioligand binding assays ) or pharmacological activity at 5 - HT 2 , 5 - HT 3 , or 5 - HT 4 receptor subtypes or at alpha 1 - , alpha 2 - , or beta - adrenergic ; dopamine 1 ; dopamine 2 ; muscarinic ; or benzodiazepine receptors .
The vascular 5 - HT 1 receptor subtype that sumatriptan activates is present on cranial arteries in both dog and primate , on the human basilar artery , and in the vasculature of human dura mater and mediates vasoconstriction .
This action in humans correlates with the relief of migraine headache .
In addition to causing vasoconstriction , experimental data from animal studies show that sumatriptan also activates 5 - HT 1 receptors on peripheral terminals of the trigeminal nerve innervating cranial blood vessels .
Such an action may also contribute to the antimigrainous effect of sumatriptan in humans .
In the anesthetized dog , sumatriptan selectively reduces the carotid arterial blood flow with little or no effect on arterial blood pressure or total peripheral resistance .
In the cat , sumatriptan selectively constricts the carotid arteriovenous anastomoses while having little effect on blood flow or resistance in cerebral or extracerebral tissues .
Pharmacokinetics The mean maximum concentration following oral dosing with 25 mg is 18 ng / mL ( range : 7 to 47 ng / mL ) and 51 ng / mL ( range : 28 to 100 ng / mL ) following oral dosing with 100 mg of sumatriptan .
This compares with a C max of 5 and 16 ng / mL following dosing with a 5 and 20 mg intranasal dose , respectively .
The mean C max following a 6 mg subcutaneous injection is 71 ng / mL ( range : 49 to 110 ng / mL ) .
The bioavailability is approximately 15 % , primarily due to presystemic metabolism and partly due to incomplete absorption .
The C max is similar during a migraine attack and during a migraine - free period , but the t max is slightly later during the attack , approximately 2 . 5 hours compared to 2 . 0 hours .
When given as a single dose , sumatriptan displays dose proportionality in its extent of absorption ( area under the curve [ AUC ] ) over the dose range of 25 to 200 mg , but the C max after 100 mg is approximately 25 % less than expected ( based on the 25 mg dose ) .
A food effect study involving administration of sumatriptan tablets 100 mg to healthy volunteers under fasting conditions and with a high - fat meal indicated that the C max and AUC were increased by 15 % and 12 % , respectively , when administered in the fed state .
Plasma protein binding is low ( 14 % to 21 % ) .
The effect of sumatriptan on the protein binding of other drugs has not been evaluated , but would be expected to be minor , given the low rate of protein binding .
The apparent volume of distribution is 2 . 4 L / kg .
The elimination half - life of sumatriptan is approximately 2 . 5 hours .
Radiolabeled 14 C - sumatriptan administered orally is largely renally excreted ( about 60 % ) with about 40 % found in the feces .
Most of the radiolabeled compound excreted in the urine is the major metabolite , indole acetic acid ( IAA ) , which is inactive , or the IAA glucuronide .
Only 3 % of the dose can be recovered as unchanged sumatriptan .
In vitro studies with human microsomes suggest that sumatriptan is metabolized by monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) , predominantly the A isoenzyme , and inhibitors of that enzyme may alter sumatriptan pharmacokinetics to increase systemic exposure .
No significant effect was seen with an MAO - B inhibitor ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Special Populations Renal Impairment Renal Impairment : The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan has not been examined , but little clinical effect would be expected as sumatriptan is largely metabolized to an inactive substance .
Hepatic Impairment The liver plays an important role in the presystemic clearance of orally administered sumatriptan .
Accordingly , the bioavailability of sumatriptan following oral administration may be markedly increased in patients with liver disease .
In 1 small study of hepatically impaired patients ( N = 8 ) matched for sex , age , and weight with healthy subjects , the hepatically impaired patients had an approximately 70 % increase in AUC and C max and a t max 40 minutes earlier compared to the healthy subjects ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Age The pharmacokinetics of oral sumatriptan in the elderly ( mean age , 72 years ; 2 males and 4 females ) and in patients with migraine ( mean age , 38 years ; 25 males and 155 females ) were similar to that in healthy male subjects ( mean age , 30 years ) ( see PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use ) .
Gender In a study comparing females to males , no pharmacokinetic differences were observed between genders for AUC , C max , t max , and half - life .
Race The systemic clearance and C max of sumatriptan were similar in black ( N = 34 ) and Caucasian ( N = 38 ) healthy male subjects .
Drug Interactions Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAO ) Treatment with MAO - A inhibitors generally leads to an increase of sumatriptan plasma levels ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Due to gut and hepatic metabolic first - pass effects , the increase of systemic exposure after coadministration of an MAO - A inhibitor with oral sumatriptan is greater than after coadministration of the monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOI ) with subcutaneous sumatriptan .
In a study of 14 healthy females , pretreatment with an MAO - A inhibitor decreased the clearance of subcutaneous sumatriptan .
Under the conditions of this experiment , the result was a 2 - fold increase in the area under the sumatriptan plasma concentration x time curve ( AUC ) , corresponding to a 40 % increase in elimination half - life .
This interaction was not evident with an MAO - B inhibitor .
A small study evaluating the effect of pretreatment with an MAO - A inhibitor on the bioavailability from a 25 mg oral sumatriptan tablet resulted in an approximately 7 - fold increase in systemic exposure .
Alcohol Alcohol consumed 30 minutes prior to sumatriptan ingestion had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of sumatriptan .
CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of sumatriptan tablets in the acute treatment of migraine headaches was demonstrated in 3 , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
Patients enrolled in these 3 studies were predominately female ( 87 % ) and Caucasian ( 97 % ) , with a mean age of 40 years ( range , 18 to 65 years ) .
Patients were instructed to treat a moderate to severe headache .
Headache response , defined as a reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain , was assessed up to 4 hours after dosing .
Associated symptoms such as nausea , photophobia , and phonophobia were also assessed .
Maintenance of response was assessed for up to 24 hours postdose .
A second dose of sumatriptane tablets or other medication was allowed 4 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for recurrent headache .
Acetaminophen was offered to patients in Studies 2 and 3 beginning at 2 hours after initial treatment if the migraine pain had not improved or worsened .
Additional medications were allowed 4 to 24 hours after the initial treatment for recurrent headache or as rescue in all 3 studies .
The frequency and time to use of these additional treatments were also determined .
In all studies , doses of 25 , 50 , and 100 mg were compared to placebo in the treatment of migraine attacks .
In 1 study , doses of 25 , 50 , and 100 mg were also compared to each other .
In all 3 trials , the percentage of patients achieving headache response 2 and 4 hours after treatment was significantly greater among patients receiving sumatriptan tablets at all doses compared to those who received placebo .
In 1 of the 3 studies , there was a statistically significant greater percentage of patients with headache response at 2 and 4 hours in the 50 or 100 mg group when compared to the 25 mg dose groups .
There were no statistically significant differences between the 50 and 100 mg dose groups in any study .
The results from the 3 controlled clinical trials are summarized in Table 1 .
Comparisons of drug performance based upon results obtained in different clinical trials are never reliable .
Because studies are conducted at different times , with different samples of patients , by different investigators , employing different criteria and / or different interpretations of the same criteria , under different conditions ( dose , dosing regimen , etc . ) , quantitative estimates of treatment response and the timing of response may be expected to vary considerably from study to study .
Table 1 .
Percentage of Patients With Headache Response ( No or Mild Pain ) 2 and 4 Hours Following Treatment Placebo 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 25 mg 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 50 mg 2 hr 4 hr Sumatriptan Tablets 100 mg 2 hr 4 hr Study 1 27 % 38 % 52 % a 67 % a 61 % ab % ab 62 % ab 79 % ab ( N = 94 ) ( N = 298 ) ( N = 296 ) ( N = 296 ) Study 2 26 % 38 % 52 % a 70 % a 50 % a 68 % a 56 % a 71 % a ( N = 65 ) ( N = 66 ) ( N = 62 ) ( N = 66 ) Study 3 17 % 19 % 52 % a 65 % a 54 % a 72 % a 57 % a 78 % a ( N = 47 ) ( N = 48 ) ( N = 46 ) ( N = 46 ) ap < 0 . 05 in comparison with placebo .
bp < 0 . 05 in comparison with 25 mg .
The estimated probability of achieving an initial headache response over the 4 hours following treatment is depicted in Figure 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] a The figure shows the probability over time of obtaining headache response ( no or mild pain ) following treatment with sumatriptan .
The averages displayed are based on pooled data from the 3 clinical controlled trials providing evidence of efficacy .
Kaplan - Meier plot with patients not achieving response and / or taking rescue within 240 minutes censored to 240 minutes .
For patients with migraine - associated nausea , photophobia , and / or phonophobia at baseline , there was a lower incidence of these symptoms at 2 hours ( Study 1 ) and at 4 hours ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) following administration of sumatriptan tablets compared to placebo .
As early as 2 hours in Studies 2 and 3 or 4 hours in Study 1 , through 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment , patients were allowed to use additional treatment for pain relief in the form of a second dose of study treatment or other medication .
The estimated probability of patients taking a second dose or other medication for migraine over the 24 hours following the initial dose of study treatment is summarized in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] aKaplan - Meier plot based on data obtained in the 3 clinical controlled trials providing evidence of efficacy with patients not using additional treatments censored to 24 hours .
Plot also includes patients who had no response to the initial dose .
No remedication was allowed within 2 hours postdose .
There is evidence that doses above 50 mg do not provide a greater effect than 50 mg .
There was no evidence to suggest that treatment with sumatriptan was associated with an increase in the severity of recurrent headaches .
The efficacy of sumatriptan tablets was unaffected by presence of aura ; duration of headache prior to treatment ; gender , age , or weight of the patient ; relationship to menses ; or concomitant use of common migraine prophylactic drugs ( e . g . , beta - blockers , calcium channel blockers , tricyclic antidepressants ) .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on efficacy .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sumatriptan tablets are indicated for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults .
Sumatriptan tablets are not intended for the prophylactic therapy of migraine or for use in the management of hemiplegic or basilar migraine ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets have not been established for cluster headache , which is present in an older , predominantly male population .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sumatriptan tablets should not be given to patients with history , symptoms , or signs of ischemic cardiac , cerebrovascular , or peripheral vascular syndromes .
In addition , patients with other significant underlying cardiovascular diseases should not receive sumatriptane tablets .
Ischemic cardiac syndromes include , but are not limited to , angina pectoris of any type ( e . g . , stable angina of effort , vasospastic forms of angina such as the Prinzmetal variant ) , all forms of myocardial infarction , and silent myocardial ischemia .
Cerebrovascular syndromes include , but are not limited to , strokes of any type as well as transient ischemic attacks .
Peripheral vascular disease includes , but is not limited to , ischemic bowel disease ( see WARNINGS ) .
Because sumatriptan tablets may increase blood pressure , they should not be given to patients with uncontrolled hypertension .
Concurrent administration of MAO - A inhibitors or use within 2 weeks of discontinuation of MAO - A inhibitor therapy is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Drug Interactions and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Sumatriptan tablets should not be administered to patients with hemiplegic or basilar migraine .
Sumatriptan tablets and any ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medication ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) should not be used within 24 hours of each other , nor should sumatriptan and another 5 - HT 1 agonist .
Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to sumatriptan or any of their components .
Sumatriptan tablets are contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
WARNINGS Sumatriptan tablets should only be used where a clear diagnosis of migraine headache has been established .
Risk of Myocardial Ischemia and / or Infarction and Other Adverse Cardiac Events Sumatriptan should not be given to patients with documented ischemic or vasospastic coronary artery disease ( CAD ) ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
It is strongly recommended that sumatriptan not be given to patients in whom unrecognized CAD is predicted by the presence of risk factors ( e . g . , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoker , obesity , diabetes , strong family history of CAD , female with surgical or physiological menopause , or male over 40 years of age ) unless a cardiovascular evaluation provides satisfactory clinical evidence that the patient is reasonably free of coronary artery and ischemic myocardial disease or other significant underlying cardiovascular disease .
The sensitivity of cardiac diagnostic procedures to detect cardiovascular disease or predisposition to coronary artery vasospasm is modest , at best .
If , during the cardiovascular evaluation , the patient ’ s medical history or electrocardiographic investigations reveal findings indicative of , or consistent with , coronary artery vasospasm or myocardial ischemia , sumatriptan should not be administered ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
For patients with risk factors predictive of CAD , who are determined to have a satisfactory cardiovascular evaluation , it is strongly recommended that administration of the first dose of sumatriptan tablets take place in the setting of a physician ’ s office or similar medically staffed and equipped facility unless the patient has previously received sumatriptan .
Because cardiac ischemia can occur in the absence of clinical symptoms , consideration should be given to obtaining on the first occasion of use an electrocardiogram ( ECG ) during the interval immediately following sumatriptan tablets , in these patients with risk factors .
It is recommended that patients who are intermittent long - term users of sumatriptan and who have or acquire risk factors predictive of CAD , as described above , undergo periodic interval cardiovascular evaluation as they continue to use sumatriptan .
The systematic approach described above is intended to reduce the likelihood that patients with unrecognized cardiovascular disease will be inadvertently exposed to sumatriptan .
Drug - Associated Cardiac Events and Fatalities Serious adverse cardiac events , including acute myocardial infarction , life - threatening disturbances of cardiac rhythm , and death have been reported within a few hours following the administration of sumatriptan succinate injection or sumatriptan tablets .
Considering the extent of use of sumatriptan in patients with migraine , the incidence of these events is extremely low .
The fact that sumatriptan can cause coronary vasospasm , that some of these events have occurred in patients with no prior cardiac disease history and with documented absence of CAD , and the close proximity of the events to sumatriptan use support the conclusion that some of these cases were caused by the drug .
In many cases , however , where there has been known underlying coronary artery disease , the relationship is uncertain .
Premarketing Experience With Sumatriptan Of 6 , 348 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of oral sumatriptan , 2 experienced clinical adverse events shortly after receiving oral sumatriptan that may have reflected coronary vasospasm .
Neither of these adverse events was associated with a serious clinical outcome .
Among the more than 1 , 900 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled clinical trials of subcutaneous sumatriptan , there were 8 patients who sustained clinical events during or shortly after receiving sumatriptan that may have reflected coronary artery vasospasm .
Six of these 8 patients had ECG changes consistent with transient ischemia , but without accompanying clinical symptoms or signs .
Of these 8 patients , 4 had either findings suggestive of CAD or risk factors predictive of CAD prior to study enrollment .
Among approximately 4 , 000 patients with migraine who participated in premarketing controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials of sumatriptan nasal spray , 1 patient experienced an asymptomatic subendocardial infarction possibly subsequent to a coronary vasospastic event .
Postmarketing Experience With Sumatriptan Serious cardiovascular events , some resulting in death , have been reported in association with the use of sumatriptan succinate injection or sumatriptan tablets .
The uncontrolled nature of postmarketing surveillance , however , makes it impossible to determine definitively the proportion of the reported cases that were actually caused by sumatriptan or to reliably assess causation in individual cases .
On clinical grounds , the longer the latency between the administration of sumatriptan and the onset of the clinical event , the less likely the association is to be causative .
Accordingly , interest has focused on events beginning within 1 hour of the administration of sumatriptan .
Cardiac events that have been observed to have onset within 1 hour of sumatriptan administration include : coronary artery vasospasm , transient ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation , cardiac arrest , and death .
Some of these events occurred in patients who had no findings of CAD and appear to represent consequences of coronary artery vasospasm .
However , among domestic reports of serious cardiac events within 1 hour of sumatriptan administration , almost all of the patients had risk factors predictive of CAD and the presence of significant underlying Drug - Associated Cerebrovascular Events and Fatalities Cerebral hemorrhage , subarachnoid hemorrhage , stroke , and other cerebrovascular events have been reported in patients treated with oral or subcutaneous sumatriptan , and some have resulted in fatalities .
The relationship of sumatriptan to these events is uncertain .
In a number of cases , it appears possible that the cerebrovascular events were primary , sumatriptan having been administered in the incorrect belief that the symptoms experienced were a consequence of migraine when they were not .
As with other acute migraine therapies , before treating headaches in patients not previously diagnosed as migraineurs , and in migraineurs who present with atypical symptoms , care should be taken to exclude other potentially serious neurological conditions .
It should also be noted that patients with migraine may be at increased risk of certain cerebrovascular events ( e . g . , cerebrovascular accident , transient ischemic attack ) .
Other Vasospasm - Related Events Sumatriptan may cause vasospastic reactions other than coronary artery vasospasm .
Both peripheral vascular ischemia and colonic ischemia with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea have been reported .
Very rare reports of transient and permanent blindness and significant partial vision loss have been reported with the use of sumatriptan .
Visual disorders may also be part of a migraine attack .
Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome may occur with triptans , including Sumatriptan , particularly during combined use with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Serotonin synd rome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g .
, tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular aberrations ( e . g . , hyperr eflexia , incoordination ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
The on set of symptoms can occur within minutes to hours of receiving a new or a greater dose of a serotonergic medication .
Treatment with Sumatriptan treatment should be discontinued if serotonin syndrome is suspected .
Increase in Blood Pressure Significant elevation in blood pressure , including hypertensive crisis , has been reported on rare occasions in patients with and without a history of hypertension .
Sumatriptan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled hypertension ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Sumatriptan should be administered with caution to patients with controlled hypertension as transient increases in blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance have been observed in a small proportion of patients .
Concomitant Drug Use In patients taking MAO - A inhibitors , sumatriptan plasma levels attained after treatment with recommended doses are 7 - fold higher following oral administration than those obtained under other conditions .
Accordingly , the coadministration of sumatriptan tablets and an MAO - A inhibitor is contraindicated ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hypersensitivity Hypersensitivity ( anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid ) reactions have occurred on rare occasions in patients receiving sumatriptan .
Such reactions can be life threatening or fatal .
In general , hypersensitivity reactions to drugs are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Chest discomfort and jaw or neck tightness have been reported following use of sumatriptan tablets and have also been reported infrequently following administration of sumatriptan succinate Nasal Spray .
Chest , jaw , or neck tightness is relatively common after administration of sumatriptan succinate injection .
Only rarely have these symptoms been associated with ischemic ECG changes .
However , because sumatriptan may cause coronary artery vasospasm , patients who experience signs or symptoms suggestive of angina following sumatriptan should be evaluated for the presence of CAD or a predisposition to Prinzmetal variant angina before receiving additional doses of sumatriptan , and should be monitored electrocardiographically if dosing is resumed and similar symptoms recur .
Similarly , patients who experience other symptoms or signs suggestive of decreased arterial flow , such as ischemic bowel syndrome or Raynaud syndrome following sumatriptan should be evaluated for atherosclerosis or predisposition to vasospasm ( see WARNINGS ) .
Sumatriptan should also be administered with caution to patients with diseases that may alter the absorption , metabolism , or excretion of drugs , such as impaired hepatic or renal function .
There have been rare reports of seizure following administration of sumatriptan .
Sumatriptan should be used with caution in patients with a history of epilepsy or conditions associated with a lowered seizure threshold .
Care should be taken to exclude other potentially serious neurologic conditions before treating headache in patients not previously diagnosed with migraine headache or who experience a headache that is atypical for them .
There have been rare reports where patients received sumatriptan for severe headaches that were subsequently shown to have been secondary to an evolving neurologic lesion ( see WARNINGS ) .
For a given attack , if a patient does not respond to the first dose of sumatriptan , the diagnosis of migraine should be reconsidered before administration of a second dose .
Overuse : Overuse of acute migraine drugs ( e . g . , ergotamine , triptans , opioids , or a combination of drugs for 10 or more days per month ) may lead to exacerbation of headache ( medication overuse headache ) .
Medication overuse headache may present as migraine - like daily headaches , or as a marked increase in frequency of migraine attacks .
Detoxification of patients , including withdrawal of the overused drugs , and treatment of withdrawal symptoms ( which often includes a transient worsening of headache ) may be necessary .
Migraine patients should be informed about the risks of medication overuse , and encouraged to record headache frequency and drug use .
Information for Patients See PATIENTINFORMATION at the end of this labeling for the text of the separate leaflet provided for patients .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the use of sumatriptan or other triptans , especially during combined use with SSRIs or SNRIs .
Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended for monitoring patients prior to and / or after treatment with sumatriptan .
Drug Interactions Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors / Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin Syndrome : Cases of life ‑ threatening serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of SSRIs or SNRIs and triptans ( see WARNINGS ) .
Ergot - Containing Drugs Ergot - containing drugs have been reported to cause prolonged vasospastic reactions .
Because there is a theoretical basis that these effects may be additive , use of ergotamine - containing or ergot - type medications ( like dihydroergotamine or methysergide ) and sumatriptan within 24 hours of each other should be avoided ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Monoamine Oxidase - A Inhibitors MAO - A inhibitors reduce sumatriptan clearance , significantly increasing systemic exposure .
Therefore , the use of sumatriptan tablets in patients receiving MAO - A inhibitors is contraindicated ( see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Sumatriptan tablets are not known to interfere with commonly employed clinical laboratory tests .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : In carcinogenicity studies , rats and mice were given sumatriptan by oral gavage ( rats : 104 weeks ) or drinking water ( mice : 78 weeks ) .
Average exposures achieved in mice receiving the highest dose ( target dose of 160 mg / kg / day ) were approximately 40 times the exposure attained in humans after the maximum recommended single oral dose of 100 mg .
The highest dose administered to rats ( 160 mg / kg / day , reduced from 360 mg / kg / day during week 21 ) was approximately 15 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
There was no evidence of an increase in tumors in either species related to sumatriptan administration .
Mutagenesis Sumatriptan was not mutagenic in the presence or absence of metabolic activation when tested in 2 gene mutation assays ( the Ames test and the in vitro mammalian Chinese hamster V79 / HGPRT assay ) .
In 2 cytogenetics assays ( the in vitro human lymphocyte assay and the in vivo rat micronucleus assay ) sumatriptan was not associated with clastogenic activity .
Impairment of Fertility In a study in which male and female rats were dosed daily with oral sumatriptan prior to and throughout the mating period , there was a treatment - related decrease in fertility secondary to a decrease in mating in animals treated with 50 and 500 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose for this finding was 5 mg / kg / day , or approximately one half of the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
It is not clear whether the problem is associated with treatment of the males or females or both combined .
In a similar study by the subcutaneous route there was no evidence of impaired fertility at 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , which is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C .
In reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits , oral treatment with sumatriptan was associated with embryolethality , fetal abnormalities , and pup mortality .
When administered by the intravenous route to rabbits , sumatriptan has been shown to be embryolethal .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , sumatriptan should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In assessing this information , the following findings should be considered .
Embryolethality When given orally or intravenously to pregnant rabbits daily throughout the period of organogenesis , sumatriptan caused embryolethality at doses at or close to those producing maternal toxicity .
In the oral studies this dose was 100 mg / kg / day , and in the intravenous studies this dose was 2 mg / kg / day .
The mechanism of the embryolethality is not known .
The highest no - effect dose for embryolethality by the oral route was 50 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 9 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
By the intravenous route , the highest no - effect dose was 0 . 75 mg / kg / day , or approximately one tenth of the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
The intravenous administration of sumatriptan to pregnant rats throughout organogenesis at 12 . 5 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , did not cause embryolethality .
This dose is equivalent to the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Additionally , in a study in rats given subcutaneous sumatriptan daily prior to and throughout pregnancy at 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , there was no evidence of increased embryo / fetal lethality .
This dose is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Teratogenicity Oral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of blood vessel abnormalities ( cervicothoracic and umbilical ) at doses of approximately 250 mg / kg / day or higher .
The highest no - effect dose was approximately 60 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 6 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Oral treatment of pregnant rabbits with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of cervicothoracic vascular and skeletal abnormalities .
The highest no - effect dose for these effects was 15 mg / kg / day , or approximately 3 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
A study in which rats were dosed daily with oral sumatriptan prior to and throughout gestation demonstrated embryo / fetal toxicity ( decreased body weight , decreased ossification , increased incidence of rib variations ) and an increased incidence of a syndrome of malformations ( short tail / short body and vertebral disorganization ) at 500 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose was 50 mg / kg / day , or approximately 5 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
In a study in rats dosed daily with subcutaneous sumatriptan prior to and throughout pregnancy , at a dose of 60 mg / kg / day , the maximum dose tested , there was no evidence of teratogenicity .
This dose is equivalent to approximately 6 times the maximum recommended single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Pup Deaths Oral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan during the period of organogenesis resulted in a decrease in pup survival between birth and postnatal day 4 at doses of approximately 250 mg / kg / day or higher .
The highest no - effect dose for this effect was approximately 60 mg / kg / day , or 6 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Oral treatment of pregnant rats with sumatriptan from gestational day 17 through postnatal day 21 demonstrated a decrease in pup survival measured at postnatal days 2 , 4 , and 20 at the dose of 1 , 000 mg / kg / day .
The highest no - effect dose for this finding was 100 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
In a similar study in rats by the subcutaneous route there was no increase in pup death at 81 mg / kg / day , the highest dose tested , which is equivalent to 8 times the maximum single recommended human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
Nursing Mothers Sumatriptan is excreted in human breast milk following subcutaneous administration .
Infant exposure to sumatriptan can be minimized by avoiding breastfeeding for 12 hours after treatment with sumatriptan tablets .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of sumatriptan tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Completed placebo - controlled clinical trials evaluating oral sumatriptan ( 25 to 100 mg ) in pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years enrolled a total of 701 adolescent migraineurs .
These studies did not establish the efficacy of oral sumatriptan compared to placebo in the treatment of migraine in adolescents .
Adverse events observed in these clinical trials were similar in nature to those reported in clinical trials in adults .
The frequency of all adverse events in theses patients appeared to be both dose - and age - dependent , with younger patients reporting events more commonly than older adolescents .
Post - marketing experience includes a limited number of reports that describe pediatric patients who have experienced adverse events , some clinically serious , after use of subcutaneous sumatriptan and / or oral sumatriptan .
These reports include events similar in nature to those reported rarely in adults .
A myocardial infarct has been reported in a 14 - year - old male following the use of oral sumatriptan ; clinical signs occurred within 1 day of drug administration .
Since clinical data to determine the frequency of serious adverse events in pediatric patients who might receive injectable , oral , or intranasal sumatriptan are not presently available , the use of sumatriptan in patients aged younger than 18 years is not recommended .
Geriatric Use The use of sumatriptan in elderly patients is not recommended because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased hepatic function , they are at higher risk for CAD , and blood pressure increases may be more pronounced in the elderly ( see WARNINGS ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Serious cardiac events , including some that have been fatal , have occurred following the use of sumatriptan succinate injection or tablets .
These events are extremely rare and most have been reported in patients with risk factors predictive of CAD .
Events reported have included coronary artery vasospasm , transient myocardial ischemia , myocardial infarction , ventricular tachycardia , and ventricular fibrillation ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Significant hypertensive episodes , including hypertensive crises , have been reported on rare occasions in patients with or without a history of hypertension ( see WARNINGS ) .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials Table 2 lists adverse events that occurred in placebo - controlled clinical trials in patients who took at least 1 dose of study drug .
Only events that occurred at a frequency of 2 % or more in any group treated with sumatriptan tablets and were more frequent in that group than in the placebo group are included in Table 2 .
The events cited reflect experience gained under closely monitored conditions of clinical trials in a highly selected patient population .
In actual clinical practice or in other clinical trials , these frequency estimates may not apply , as the conditions of use , reporting behavior , and the kinds of patients treated may differ .
Table 2 .
Treatment Emergent Adverse Events Reported by at Least 2 % of Patients in Controlled Migraine Trials aAdverse Event Type Percent of Patients Reporting Placebo ( N = 309 ) Sumatriptan 25 mg ( N = 417 ) Sumatriptan 50 mg ( N = 771 ) Sumatriptan 100 mg ( N = 437 ) Atypical sensations 4 % 5 % 6 % 6 % Paresthesia ( all types ) 2 % 3 % 5 % 3 % Sensation warm / cold 2 % 3 % 2 % 3 % Pain and other pressure sensations 4 % 6 % 6 % 8 % Chest - pain / tightness / pressure and / or heaviness 1 % 1 % 2 % 2 % Neck / throat / jaw - pain / tightness / pressure < 1 % < 1 % 2 % 3 % Pain - location specified 1 % 2 % 1 % 1 % Other - pressure / tightness / heaviness 2 % 1 % 1 % 3 % Neurological Vertigo < 1 % < 1 % < 1 % 2 % Other Malaise / fatigue < 1 % 2 % 2 % 3 % aEvents that occurred at a frequency of 2 % or more in the group treated with sumatriptan tablets and that occurred more frequently in that group than the placebo group .
Other events that occurred in more than 1 % of patients receiving sumatriptan tablets and at least as often on placebo included nausea and / or vomiting , migraine , headache , hyposalivation , dizziness , and drowsiness / sleepiness .
Sumatriptan tablets are generally well tolerated .
Across all doses , most adverse reactions were mild and transient and did not lead to long - lasting effects .
The incidence of adverse events in controlled clinical trials was not affected by gender or age of the patients .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse events .
Other Events Observed in Association With the Administration of Sumatriptan Tablets In the paragraphs that follow , the frequencies of less commonly reported adverse clinical events are presented .
Because the reports include events observed in open and uncontrolled studies , the role of sumatriptan tablets in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
Furthermore , variability associated with adverse event reporting , the terminology used to describe adverse events , etc . , limit the value of quantitative frequency estimates provided .
Event frequencies are calculated as the number of patients who used sumatriptane tablets ( 25 , 50 , or 100 mg ) and reported an event divided by the total number of patients ( N = 6 , 348 ) exposed to sumatriptan tablets .
All reported events are included except those already listed in the previous table , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Events are further classified within body system categories and enumerated in order of decreasing frequency using the following definitions : frequent adverse events are defined as those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients , infrequent adverse events are those occurring in 1 / 100 to 1 / 1 , 000 patients , and rare adverse events are those occurring in fewer than 1 / 1 , 000 patients .
Atypical Sensations Frequent were burning sensation and numbness .
Infrequent was tight feeling in head .
Rare were dysesthesia .
Cardiovascular Frequent were palpitations , syncope , decreased blood pressure , and increased blood pressure .
Infrequent were arrhythmia , changes in ECG , hypertension , hypotension , pallor , pulsating sensations , and tachycardia .
Rare were angina , atherosclerosis , bradycardia , cerebral ischemia , cerebrovascular lesion , heart block , peripheral cyanosis , thrombosis , transient myocardial ischemia , and vasodilation .
Ear , Nose , and Throat Frequent were sinusitis , tinnitus ; allergic rhinitis ; upper respiratory inflammation ; ear , nose , and throat hemorrhage ; external otitis ; hearing loss ; nasal inflammation ; and sensitivity to noise .
Infrequent were hearing disturbances and otalgia .
Rare was feeling of fullness in the ear ( s ) .
Endocrine and Metabolic Infrequent was thirst .
Rare were elevated thyrotropin stimulating hormone ( TSH ) levels ; galactorrhea ; hyperglycemia ; hypoglycemia ; hypothyroidism ; polydipsia ; weight gain ; weight loss ; endocrine cysts , lumps , and masses ; and fluid disturbances .
Eye Rare were disorders of sclera , mydriasis , blindness and low vision , visual disturbances , eye edema and swelling , eye irritation and itching , accommodation disorders , external ocular muscle disorders , eye hemorrhage , eye pain , and keratitis and conjunctivitis .
Gastrointestinal Frequent were diarrhea and gastric symptoms .
Infrequent were constipation , dysphagia , and gastroesophageal reflux .
Rare were gastrointestinal bleeding , hematemesis , melena , peptic ulcer , gastrointestinal pain , dyspeptic symptoms , dental pain , feelings of gastrointestinal pressure , gastritis , gastroenteritis , hypersalivation , abdominal distention , oral itching and irritation , salivary gland swelling , and swallowing disorders .
Hematological Disorders Rare was anemia .
Musculoskeletal Frequent was myalgia .
Infrequent was muscle cramps .
Rare were tetany ; muscle atrophy , weakness , and tiredness ; arthralgia and articular rheumatitis ; acquired musculoskeletal deformity ; muscle stiffness , tightness , and rigidity ; and musculoskeletal inflammation .
Neurological Frequent were phonophobia and photophobia .
Infrequent were confusion , depression , difficulty concentrating , disturbance of smell , dysarthria , euphoria , facial pain , heat sensitivity , incoordination , lacrimation , monoplegia , sleep disturbance , shivering , syncope , and tremor .
Rare were aggressiveness , apathy , bradylogia , cluster headache , convulsions , decreased appetite , drug abuse , dystonic reaction , facial paralysis , hallucinations , hunger , hyperesthesia , hysteria , increased alertness , memory disturbance , neuralgia , paralysis , personality change , phobia , radiculopathy , rigidity , suicide , twitching , agitation , anxiety , depressive disorders , detachment , motor dysfunction , neurotic disorders , psychomotor disorders , taste disturbances , and raised intracranial pressure .
Respiratory Frequent was dyspnea .
Infrequent was asthma .
Rare were hiccoughs , breathing disorders , cough , and bronchitis .
Skin Frequent was sweating .
Infrequent were erythema , pruritus , rash , and skin tenderness .
Rare were dry / scaly skin , tightness of skin , wrinkling of skin , eczema , seborrheic dermatitis , and skin nodules .
Breasts Infrequent was tenderness .
Rare were nipple discharge ; breast swelling ; cysts , lumps , and masses of breasts ; and primary malignant breast neoplasm .
Urogenital Infrequent were dysmenorrhea , increased urination , and intermenstrual bleeding .
Rare were abortion and hematuria , urinary frequency , bladder inflammation , micturition disorders , urethritis , urinary infections , menstruation symptoms , abnormal menstrual cycle , inflammation of fallopian tubes , and menstrual cycle symptoms .
Miscellaneous Frequent was hypersensitivity .
Infrequent were fever , fluid retention , and overdose .
Rare were edema , hematoma , lymphadenopathy , speech disturbance , voice disturbances , contusions .
Other Events Observed in the Clinical Development of Sumatriptan The following adverse events occurred in clinical trials with sumatriptan succinate injection and sumatriptan succinate nasal spray .
Because the reports include events observed in open and uncontrolled studies , the role of sumatriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
All reported events are included except those already listed , those too general to be informative , and those not reasonably associated with the use of the drug .
Atypical Sensations Feeling strange , prickling sensation , tingling , and hot sensation .
Cardiovascular Abdominal aortic aneurysm , abnormal pulse , flushing , phlebitis , Raynaud syndrome , and various transient ECG changes ( nonspecific ST or T wave changes , prolongation of PR or QTc intervals , sinus arrhythmia , nonsustained ventricular premature beats , isolated junctional ectopic beats , atrial ectopic beats , delayed activation of the right ventricle ) .
Chest Symptoms Chest discomfort .
Endocrine and Metabolic Dehydration .
Ear , Nose , and Throat Disorder / discomfort nasal cavity and sinuses , ear infection , Meniere disease , and throat discomfort .
Eye Vision alterations .
Gastrointestinal Abdominal discomfort , colitis , disturbance of liver function tests , flatulence / eructation , gallstones , intestinal obstruction , pancreatitis , and retching .
Injection Site Reaction Miscellaneous Difficulty in walking , hypersensitivity to various agents , jaw discomfort , miscellaneous laboratory abnormalities , “ serotonin agonist effect , ” swelling of the extremities , and swelling of the face .
Mouth and Teeth Disorder of mouth and tongue ( e . g . , burning of tongue , numbness of tongue , dry mouth ) .
Musculoskeletal Arthritis , backache , intervertebral disc disorder , neck pain / stiffness , need to flex calf muscles , and various joint disturbances ( pain , stiffness , swelling , ache ) .
Neurological Bad / unusual taste , chills , diplegia , disturbance of emotions , sedation , globus hystericus , intoxication , myoclonia , neoplasm of pituitary , relaxation , sensation of lightness , simultaneous hot and cold sensations , stinging sensations , stress , tickling sensations , transient hemiplegia , and yawning .
Respiratory influenza and diseases of the lower respiratory tract and lower respiratory tract infection .
Skin Skin eruption , herpes , and peeling of the skin .
Urogenital Disorder of breasts , endometriosis , and renal calculus .
Postmarketing Experience ( Reports for Subcutaneous or Oral Sumatriptan ) The following section enumerates potentially important adverse events that have occurred in clinical practice and that have been reported spontaneously to various surveillance systems .
The events enumerated represent reports arising from both domestic and nondomestic use of oral or subcutaneous dosage forms of sumatriptan .
The events enumerated include all except those already listed in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section above or those too general to be informative .
Because the reports cite events reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience , frequency of events and the role of sumatriptan in their causation cannot be reliably determined .
It is assumed , however , that systemic reactions following sumatriptan use are likely to be similar regardless of route of administration .
Blood Hemolytic anemia , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia .
Cardiovascular Atrial fibrillation , cardiomyopathy , colonic ischemia ( see WARNINGS ) , Prinzmetal variant angina , pulmonary embolism , shock , thrombophlebitis .
Ear , Nose , and Throat Deafness .
Eye Ischemic optic neuropathy , retinal artery occlusion , retinal vein thrombosis , loss of vision .
Gastrointestinal Ischemic colitis with rectal bleeding ( see WARNINGS ) , xerostomia .
Hepatic Elevated liver function tests .
Neurological Central nervous system vasculitis , cerebrovascular accident , dysphasia , serotonin syndrome , subarachnoid hemorrhage .
Non - Site Specific Angioneurotic edema , cyanosis , death ( see WARNINGS ) , temporal arteritis .
Psychiatry Panic disorder .
Respiratory Bronchospasm in patients with and without a history of asthma .
Skin Exacerbation of sunburn , hypersensitivity reactions ( allergic vasculitis , erythema , pruritus , rash , shortness of breath , urticaria ; in addition , severe anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions have been reported [ see WARNINGS ] ) , photosensitivity .
Urogenital Acute renal failure .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE One clinical study with sumatriptan succinate injection enrolling 12 patients with a history of substance abuse failed to induce subjective behavior and / or physiologic response ordinarily associated with drugs that have an established potential for abuse .
OVERDOSAGE Patients ( N = 670 ) have received single oral doses of 140 to 300 mg without significant adverse effects .
Volunteers ( N = 174 ) have received single oral doses of 140 to 400 mg without serious adverse events .
Overdose in animals has been fatal and has been heralded by convulsions , tremor , paralysis , inactivity , ptosis , erythema of the extremities , abnormal respiration , cyanosis , ataxia , mydriasis , salivation , and lacrimation .
The elimination half - life of sumatriptan is approximately 2 . 5 hours ( see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGY ) , and therefore monitoring of patients after overdose with sumatriptan tablets should continue for at least 12 hours or while symptoms or signs persist .
It is unknown what effect hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis has on the serum concentrations of sumatriptan .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In controlled clinical trials , single doses of 25 , 50 , or 100 mg of sumatriptan tablets were effective for the acute treatment of migraine in adults .
There is evidence that doses of 50 and 100 mg may provide a greater effect than 25 mg ( see CLINICALTRIALS ) .
There is also evidence that doses of 100 mg do not provide a greater effect than 50 mg .
Individuals may vary in response to doses of sumatriptan tablets .
The choice of dose should therefore be made on an individual basis , weighing the possible benefit of a higher dose with the potential for a greater risk of adverse events .
If the headache returns or the patient has a partial response to the initial dose , the dose may be repeated after 2 hours , not to exceed a total daily dose of 200 mg .
If a headache returns following an initial treatment with sumatriptan succinate injection , additional single sumatriptan tablets ( up to 100 mg / day ) may be given with an interval of at least 2 hours between tablet doses .
The safety of treating an average of more than 4 headaches in a 30 - day period has not been established .
Because of the potential of MAO - A inhibitors to cause unpredictable elevations in the bioavailability of oral sumatriptan , their combined use is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hepatic disease / functional impairment may also cause unpredictable elevations in the bioavailability of orally administered sumatriptan .
Consequently , if treatment is deemed advisable in the presence of liver disease , the maximum single dose should in general not exceed 50 mg ( see CLINICALPHARMACOLOGYfor the basis of this recommendation ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Sumatriptan tablets USP , 25 , 50 , and 100 mg of sumatriptan ( base ) as the succinate .
Sumatriptan tablets USP , 25 mg are white , round , biconvex film - coated tablets debossed with “ RDY ” on one side and “ 291 ” on the other side .
The tablets are supplied in bottles of 30 , 36 , 90 100 , 500 , unit of use blister pack of 9 ' s and unit dose package of 100 ' s .
Bottles of 30 NDC 55111 - 291 - 30 Bottles of 36 NDC 55111 - 291 - 36 Bottles of 90 NDC 55111 - 291 - 90 Bottles of 100 NDC 55111 - 291 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 55111 - 291 - 05 Unit of use blister pack of 9 ( 1 x 9 ) NDC 55111 - 291 - 09 Unit dose package of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) NDC 55111 - 291 - 78 Sumatriptan tablets USP , 50 mg are white , round , biconvex film - coated tablets debossed with “ RDY ” on one side and “ 292 ” on the other side .
The tablets are supplied in bottles of 30 , 36 , 90 100 , 500 , unit of use blister pack of 9 ' s and unit dose package of 100 ' s .
Bottles of 30 NDC 55111 - 292 - 30 Bottles of 36 NDC 55111 - 292 - 36 Bottles of 90 NDC 55111 - 292 - 90 Bottles of 100 NDC 55111 - 292 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 55111 - 292 - 05 Unit of use blister pack of 9 ( 1 x 9 ) NDC 55111 - 292 - 09 Unit dose package of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) NDC 55111 - 292 - 78 Sumatriptan tablets USP , 100 mg are white , capsule shaped , biconvex film - coated tablets debossed with “ RDY ” on one side and “ 293 ” on the other side .
The tablets are supplied in bottles of 30 , 36 , 90 100 , 500 , unit of use blister pack of 9 ' s and unit dose package of 100 ' s .
Bottles of 30 NDC 55111 - 293 - 30 Bottles of 36 NDC 55111 - 293 - 36 Bottles of 90 NDC 55111 - 293 - 90 Bottles of 100 NDC 55111 - 293 - 01 Bottles of 500 NDC 55111 - 293 - 05 Unit of use blister pack of 9 ( 1 x 9 ) NDC 55111 - 293 - 09 Unit dose package of 100 ( 10 x 10 ) NDC 55111 - 293 - 78 Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
ANIMAL TOXICOLOGY Corneal Opacities Dogs receiving oral sumatriptan developed corneal opacities and defects in the corneal epithelium .
Corneal opacities were seen at the lowest dosage tested , 2 mg / kg / day , and were present after 1 month of treatment .
Defects in the corneal epithelium were noted in a 60 - week study .
Earlier examinations for these toxicities were not conducted and no - effect doses were not established ; however , the relative exposure at the lowest dose tested was approximately 5 times the human exposure after a 100 mg oral dose .
There is evidence of alterations in corneal appearance on the first day of intranasal dosing to dogs .
Changes were noted at the lowest dose tested , which was approximately one half the maximum single human oral dose of 100 mg on a mg / m 2 basis .
R X Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Limited Bachepalli – 502 325 INDIA Revised : 0312 PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information Sumatriptan Tablets USP Read this Patient Information before you start taking sumatriptan tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about sumatriptan tablets ?
Sumatriptan tablets can cause serious side effects , including : Heart attack and other heart problems .
Heart problems may lead to death .
Stop taking sumatriptan tablets and get emergency medical help right away if you have any of the following symptoms of a heart attack : • discomfort in the center of your chest that lasts for more than a few minutes , or that goes away and comes back • chest pain or chest discomfort that feels like uncomfortable heavy pressure , squeezing , or fullness , or pain • pain or discomfort in your arms , back , neck , jaw , or stomach • shortness of breath with or without chest discomfort • breaking out in a cold sweat • nausea or vomiting • feeling lightheaded Sumatriptan tablets are not for people with risk factors for heart disease unless a heart exam is done and shows no problem .
You have a higher risk for heart disease if you : • have high blood pressure • have high cholesterol levels • smoke • are overweight • have diabetes • have a family history of heart disease • are a female who has gone through menopause • are a male over age 40 Serotonin syndrome .
Serotonin syndrome is a serious and life - threatening problem that can happen in people taking sumatriptan tablets , especially if sumatriptan tablets are used with antidepressant medicines called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) or selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms of serotonin syndrome : • mental changes such as seeing things that are not there ( hallucinations ) , agitation , or coma • fast heartbeat • changes in blood pressure • high body temperature • tight muscles • trouble walking • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea What are sumatriptan tablets ?
Sumatriptan tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat acute migraine headaches with or without aura in adults .
Sumatriptan tablets are not used to prevent or decrease the number of migraine headaches you have .
Sumatriptan tablets are not used to treat other types of headaches such as hemiplegic ( that make you unable to move on one side of your body ) or basilar migraines ( rare form of migraine with aura ) .
It is not known if sumatriptan tablets are safe and effective to treat cluster headaches .
It is not known if sumatriptan tablets are safe and effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not take sumatriptan tablets ?
Do not take sumatriptan tablets if you have : • heart problems or a history of heart problems • narrowing of blood vessels to your legs , arms , stomach , or kidney ( peripheral vascular disease ) • uncontrolled high blood pressure • severe liver problems • hemiplegic migraines or basilar migraines .
If you are not sure if you have these types of migraines , ask your healthcare provider .
• had a stroke , transient ischemic attacks ( TIAs ) , or problems with your blood circulation • taken any of the following medicines in the last 24 hours : • almotriptan ( AXERT ® ) • eletriptan ( RELPAX ® ) • frovatriptan ( FROVA ® ) • naratriptan ( AMERGE ® ) • rizatriptan ( MAXALT ® , MAXALT - MLT ® ) • sumatriptan and naproxen ( TREXIMET ® ) • ergotamines ( CAFERGOT ® , ERGOMAR ® , MIGERGOT ® ) • dihydroergotamine ( D . H . E . 45 ® , MIGRANAL ® ) Ask your doctor if you are not sure if your medicine is listed above .
• an allergy to sumatriptan or any of the ingredients in sumatriptan tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in sumatriptan tablets .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking sumatriptan tablets ?
Before you take sumatriptan tablets , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have high blood pressure • have high cholesterol • have diabetes • smoke • are overweight • are a female who has gone through menopause • have heart disease or a family history of heart disease or stroke • have kidney problems • have liver problems • have had epilepsy or seizures • are not using effective birth control • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if sumatriptan tablets will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Sumatriptan tablets passes into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take sumatriptan tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Sumatriptan tablets and other medicines may affect each other , causing side effects .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take anti - depressant medicines called : • selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) • serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) • monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take sumatriptan tablets ?
• Certain people should take their first dose of sumatriptan tablets in their healthcare provider ’ s office or in another medical setting .
Ask your healthcare provider if you should take your first dose in a medical setting .
• Take sumatriptan tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• Your healthcare provider may change your dose .
Do not change your dose without first talking to your healthcare provider .
• Take sumatriptan tablets with water or other liquids .
• If you do not get any relief after your first sumatriptan tablet , do not take a second tablet without first talking with your healthcare provider .
• If your headache comes back or you only get some relief from your headache , you can take a second tablet 2 hours after the first tablet • Do not take more than a total of 200 mg of sumatriptan tablets in a 24 - hour period .
• Some people who take too many sumatriptan tablets may have worse headaches ( medication overuse headache ) .
If your headaches get worse , your healthcare provider may decide to stop your treatment with sumatriptan tablets .
• If you take too much sumatriptan tablets , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• You should write down when you have headaches and when you take sumatriptan tablets so you can talk with your healthcare provider about how sumatriptan tablets are working for you .
What should I avoid while taking sumatriptan tablets ?
Sumatriptan tablets can cause dizziness , weakness , or drowsiness .
If you have these symptoms , do not drive a car , use machinery , or do anything where you need to be alert .
What are the possible side effects of sumatriptan tablets ?
Sumatriptan tablets may cause serious side effects .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about sumatriptan tablets ? ”
These serious side effects include : • changes in color or sensation in your fingers and toes ( Raynaud ’ s syndrome ) • stomach and intestinal problems ( gastrointestinal and colonic ischemic events ) .
Symptoms of gastrointestinal and colonic ischemic events include : • sudden or severe stomach pain • stomach pain after meals • weight loss • nausea or vomiting • constipation or diarrhea • bloody diarrhea • fever • problems with blood circulation to your legs and feet ( peripheral vascular ischemia ) .
Symptoms of peripheral vascular ischemia include : • cramping and pain in your legs or hips • feeling of heaviness or tightness in your leg muscles • burning or aching pain in your feet or toes while resting • numbness , tingling , or weakness in your legs • cold feeling or color changes in 1 or both legs or feet • shortness of breath or wheezing • hives ( itchy bumps ) ; swelling of your tongue , mouth , or throat The most common side effects of sumatriptan tablets include : • tingling or numbness in your fingers or toes • dizziness • warm , hot , burning feeling to your face ( flushing ) • feeling weak , drowsy , or tired Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of sumatriptan tablets .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Sumatriptan Tablets ?
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Keep sumatriptan tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of sumatriptan tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in Patient Information leaflets .
Do not use sumatriptan tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give sumatriptan tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about sumatriptan tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about sumatriptan tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 888 - 375 - 3784 .
What are the ingredients in Sumatriptan Tablets ?
Active ingredients : Sumatriptan succinate Inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose anhydrous , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , mannitol , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
To reorder additional Patient Information Leaflets , please contact Dr . Reddy ’ s Customer Service at 1 - 866 - 733 - 3952 .
IMITREX , AMERGE , and TREXIMET are registered trademarks of GlaxoSmithKline .
The other brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
RX Only Manufactured by : Dr . Reddy ’ s Laboratories Limited Bachepalli – 502 325 INDIA Revised : 0312 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ondansetron tablets are indicated for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with : • highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 .
• initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
• radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
Ondansetron tablets are also indicated for the prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
Ondansetron tablets are a 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonist indicated for the prevention of : • nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 .
( 1 ) • nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
( 1 ) • nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
( 1 ) • postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • See full prescribing information for the recommended dosage in adults and pediatrics ( 2 ) • Patients with severe hepatic impairment : do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg ( 2 . 2 , 8 . 6 ) 2 . 1 Dosage The recommended dosage regimens for adult and pediatric patients are described in Table 1 and Table 2 , respectively .
Table 1 : Adult Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy A single 24 mg dose administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent 8 mg dose 8 hours after the first dose .
Then administer 8 mg twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy Radiotherapy For total body irradiation : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen : 8 mg administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent 8 mg doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
Postoperative 16 mg administered 1 hour before induction of anesthesia Table 2 : Pediatric Recommended Dosage Regimen for Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Indication Dosage Regimen Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy 12 to 17 years of age : 8 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent 8 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
Then administer 8 mg three times a day for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
4 to 11 years of age : 4 mg administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent 4 mg dose 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
Then administer 4 mg three times a day for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
2 . 2 Dosage in Hepatic Impairment In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Ondansetron Tablets USP , are available in the following strengths : • 4 mg – white , oval , film - coated tablets engraved with " 4 " on one side and “ NO ” on other side .
• 8 mg – yellow , oval , film - coated tablets engraved with " 8 " on one side and " NO " on the other side .
• Tablets : 4 mg and 8 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Ondansetron tablets are contraindicated in patients : • known to have hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to ondansetron or any of the components of the formulation [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• receiving concomitant apomorphine due to the risk of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness .
• Patients known to have hypersensitivity ( e . g . , anaphylaxis ) to ondansetron or any components of the formulation .
( 4 ) • Concomitant use of apomorphine .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis and bronchospasm : Discontinue ondansetron tablets if suspected .
Monitor and treat promptly per standard of care until signs and symptoms resolve ( 5 . 1 ) • QT interval prolongation and Torsade de Pointes : Avoid in patients with congenital long QT syndrome ; monitor with electrocardiograms ( ECGs ) if concomitant electrolyte abnormalities , cardiac failure or arrhythmias , or use of other QT prolonging drugs .
( 5 . 2 ) • Serotonin syndrome : Reported with 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists alone but particularly with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs .
If such symptoms occur , discontinue ondansetron tablets and initiate supportive treatment .
If concomitant use of ondansetron tablets with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , patients should be made aware of a potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome .
( 5 . 3 ) • Masking of progressive ileus and / or gastric distention following abdominal surgery or chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting : Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis and bronchospasm , have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists .
If hypersensitivity reactions occur , discontinue use of ondansetron tablets ; treat promptly per standard of care and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 QT Prolongation Electrocardiogram ( ECG ) changes including QT interval prolongation have been seen in patients receiving ondansetron .
In addition , postmarketing cases of Torsade de Pointes have been reported in patients using ondansetron tablets .
Avoid ondansetron tablets in patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
ECG monitoring is recommended in patients with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia ) , congestive heart failure , bradyarrhythmias , or patients taking other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serotonin Syndrome The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists alone .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of ondansetron tablets alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of ondansetron tablets and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue ondansetron tablets and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if ondansetron tablets is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 4 Masking of Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distension The use of ondansetron tablets in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Monitor for decreased bowel activity , particularly in patients with risk factors for gastrointestinal obstruction .
Ondansetron tablets are not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions in adults for the : • prevention of chemotherapy - induced ( greater than or equal to 5 % ) are : headache , malaise / fatigue , constipation , diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) • prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) are : headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) • prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting ( greater than or equal to 9 % ) are : headache and hypoxia .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis Pharma Inc . , at 1 - 800 - 432 - 8534 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron , the active ingredient of ondansetron tablets .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron tablets was unclear in many cases .
Prevention of Chemotherapy - induced Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions reported in greater than or equal to 4 % of 300 adults receiving a single 24 mg dose of ondansetron tablets orally in 2 trials for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy ( cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 ) were : headache ( 11 % ) and diarrhea ( 4 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions reported in 4 trials in adults for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy ( primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens ) are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions in Adults a for the Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated with Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy [ Primarily Cyclophosphamide - based Regimens ] a Reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients treated with ondansetron tablets and at a rate that exceeded placebo .
Adverse Reaction Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg Twice Daily ( n = 242 ) Placebo ( n = 262 ) Headache 58 ( 24 % ) 34 ( 13 % ) Malaise / fatigue 32 ( 13 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) Constipation 22 ( 9 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Diarrhea 15 ( 6 % ) 10 ( 4 % ) Less Common Adverse Reactions Central Nervous System : Extrapyramidal reactions ( less than 1 % of patients ) .
Hepatic : Aspartate transaminase ( AST ) and / or alanine transaminase ( ALT ) values exceeded twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of 723 patients receiving ondansetron tablets and cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes is unclear .
Liver failure and death has been reported in cancer patients receiving concurrent medications , including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Integumentary : Rash ( approximately 1 % of patients ) .
Other ( less than 2 % ) : Anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron tablets is unclear .
Prevention of Radiation - induced Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 2 % ) reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent chemotherapy and were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting The most common adverse reactions reported in adults in trial ( s ) of prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting are shown in Table 4 .
In these trial ( s ) patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications in both treatment groups .
Table 4 .
Most Common Adverse Reactions in Adults a for the Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting a Reported in greater than or equal to 5 % of patients treated with ondansetron tablets and at a rate that exceeded placebo .
Adverse Reaction Ondansetron Tablets 16 mg as a Single Dose ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 531 ) Headache 49 ( 9 % ) 27 ( 5 % ) Hypoxia 49 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 7 % ) Pyrexia 45 ( 8 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Dizziness 36 ( 7 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Gynecological disorder 36 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 6 % ) Anxiety / agitation 33 ( 6 % ) 29 ( 5 % ) Urinary retention 28 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 3 % ) Pruritus 27 ( 5 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of ondansetron .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular Arrhythmias ( including ventricular and supraventricular tachycardia , premature ventricular contractions , and atrial fibrillation ) , bradycardia , electrocardiographic alterations ( including second - degree heart block , QT / QTc interval prolongation , and ST segment depression ) , palpitations , and syncope .
Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
General Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylactic reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
Hepatobiliary Liver enzyme abnormalities .
Lower Respiratory Hiccups .
Neurology Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions .
Skin Urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Eye Disorders Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Serotonergic Drugs Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) .
Monitor for the emergence of serotonin syndrome .
If symptoms occur , discontinue ondansetron tablets and initiate supportive treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Drugs Affecting Cytochrome P - 450 Enzymes Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron tablets is recommended for patients on these drugs [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Tramadol Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small trials indicate that when used together , ondansetron tablets may increase patient - controlled administration of tramadol .
Monitor patients to ensure adequate pain control when ondansetron is administered with tramadol .
7 . 4 Chemotherapy Carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover trial in 76 pediatric patients , intravenous ondansetron did not increase systemic concentrations of high - dose methotrexate .
7 . 5 Alfentanil and Atracurium Ondansetron tablets do not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data do not reliably inform the association of ondansetron tablets and adverse fetal outcomes .
Published epidemiological studies on the association between ondansetron and fetal outcomes have reported inconsistent findings and have important methodological limitations hindering interpretation [ see Data ] .
Reproductive studies in rats and rabbits did not show evidence of harm to the fetus when ondansetron was administered during organogenesis at approximately 6 and 24 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , based on body surface area , respectively [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Methodological limitations of the epidemiology studies preclude a reliable evaluation of the potential risk of adverse fetal outcomes with the use of ondansetron in pregnancy .
Two large retrospective cohort studies of ondansetron use in pregnancy have been published .
In one study with 1 , 349 infants born to women who reported the use of ondansetron or received an ondansetron prescription in the first trimester , no increased risk for major congenital malformations was seen in aggregate analysis .
In this same study , however , a sub - analysis for specific malformations reported an association between ondansetron exposure and cardiovascular defect ( odds ratio ( OR ) 1 . 62 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 04 , 2 . 14 ) ] ) and cardiac septal defect ( OR ) 2 . 05 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 19 , 3 . 28 ) ] ) .
The second study examined 1970 women who received ondansetron prescription during pregnancy and reported no association between ondansetron exposure and major congenital malformations , miscarriage or stillbirth , and infants of low birth weight or small for gestational age .
Important methodological limitations with these studies include the uncertainty of whether women who filled a prescription actually took the medication , the concomitant use of other medications or treatments , and other unadjusted confounders that may account for the study findings .
A case - control study evaluating associations between several common non - cardiac malformations and multiple antiemetic drugs reported an association between maternal use of ondansetron and isolated cleft palate ( reported adjusted OR = 2 . 37 [ 95 % CI ( 1 . 18 , 4 . 76 ) ] ) .
However , this association could be a chance finding , given the large number of drugs - birth defect comparisons in this study .
It is unknown whether ondansetron exposure in utero in the cases of cleft palate occurred during the time of palate formation ( the palate is formed between the 6 th and 9 th weeks of pregnancy ) or whether mothers of infants with cleft palate used other medications or had other risk factors for cleft palate in the offspring .
In addition , no cases of isolated cleft palate were identified in the aforementioned two large retrospective cohort studies .
At this time , there is no clear evidence that ondansetron exposure in early pregnancy can cause cleft palate .
Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies in rats and rabbits , pregnant animals received oral doses of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
With the exception of a slight decrease in maternal body weight gain in the rabbits , there were no significant effects of ondansetron on the maternal animals or the development of the offspring .
At doses of 15 mg / kg / day in rats and 30 mg / kg / day in rabbits , the maternal exposure margin was approximately 6 and 24 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , respectively , based on body surface area .
In a pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity study , pregnant rats received oral doses of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day from Day 17 of pregnancy to litter Day 21 .
With the exception of a slight reduction in maternal body weight gain , there were no effects upon the pregnant rats and the pre - and postnatal development of their offspring , including reproductive performance of the mated F1 generation .
At a dose of 15 mg / kg / day in rats , the maternal exposure margin was approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg / day , based on body surface area .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary It is not known whether ondansetron is present in human milk .
There are no data on the effects of ondansetron tablets on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
However , it has been demonstrated that ondansetron is present in the milk of rats .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for ondansetron tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed infant from ondansetron tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of orally administered ondansetron tablets have been established in pediatric patients 4 years and older for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
Use of ondansetron tablets in these age - groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of ondansetron tablets in adults with additional data from 3 open - label , uncontrolled , non - US trials in 182 pediatric patients aged 4 to 18 years with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Additional information on the use of ondansetron in pediatric patients may be found in ondansetron injection prescribing information .
The safety and effectiveness of orally administered ondansetron tablets have not been established in pediatric patients for : • prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
• prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy .
• prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 ( 19 % ) were aged 65 years and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects 65 years of age and older and younger subjects .
A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life were seen in patients older than 75 years compared with younger subjects [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
There were an insufficient number of patients older than 75 years of age and older in the clinical trials to permit safety or efficacy conclusions in this age - group .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
No dosage adjustment is needed in elderly patients .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced and the apparent volume of distribution is increased , resulting in a significant increase in the half - life of ondansetron .
Therefore , do not exceed a total daily dose of 8 mg in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with any degree of renal impairment ( mild , moderate , or severe ) .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Animal studies have shown that ondansetron is not discriminated as a benzodiazepine nor does it substitute for benzodiazepines in direct addiction studies .
10 OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above , the following adverse reactions have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in one patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the adverse reactions resolved completely .
Pediatric cases consistent with serotonin syndrome have been reported after inadvertent oral overdoses of ondansetron ( exceeding estimated ingestion of 5 mg per kg ) in young children .
Reported symptoms included somnolence , agitation , tachycardia , tachypnea , hypertension , flushing , mydriasis , diaphoresis , myoclonic movements , horizontal nystagmus , hyperreflexia , and seizure .
Patients required supportive care , including intubation in some cases , with complete recovery without sequelae within 1 to 2 days .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in ondansetron tablets is ondansetron hydrochloride as the dihydrate , the racemic form of ondansetron and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one , monohydrochloride , dihydrate .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C18H19N3O • HCl • 2H2O , representing a molecular weight of 365 . 5 .
Ondansetron hydrochloride dihydrate is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and normal saline .
Each 4 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron .
Each 8 mg ondansetron tablet , USP for oral administration contains ondansetron hydrochloride dihydrate equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron .
Each tablet also contains the inactive ingredients croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide , triacetin , and iron oxide yellow ( 8 mg tablet only ) .
This product meets USP Dissolution Test 3 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT3 receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT3 type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ’ s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ( 5 - HIAA ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT3 receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In healthy subjects , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in healthy subjects .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Cardiac Electrophysiology QTc interval prolongation was studied in a double - blind , single intravenous dose , placebo - and positive - controlled , crossover trial in 58 healthy subjects .
The maximum mean ( 95 % upper confidence bound ) difference in QTcF from placebo after baseline correction was 19 . 5 ( 21 . 8 ) milliseconds and 5 . 6 ( 7 . 4 ) milliseconds after 15 minute intravenous infusions of 32 mg and 8 mg of ondansetron injection , respectively .
A significant exposure - response relationship was identified between ondansetron concentration and ΔΔQTcF .
Using the established exposure - response relationship , 24 mg infused intravenously over 15 minutes had a mean predicted ( 95 % upper prediction interval ) ΔΔQTcF of 14 . 0 ( 16 . 3 ) milliseconds .
In contrast , 16 mg infused intravenously over 15 minutes using the same model had a mean predicted ( 95 % upper prediction interval ) ΔΔQTcF of 9 . 1 ( 11 . 2 ) milliseconds .
In this study , the 8 mg dose infused over 15 minutes did not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Ondansetron is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
The AUC from a 16 mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Food Effects : Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food .
Distribution Plasma protein binding of ondansetron as measured in vitro was 70 % to 76 % over the concentration range of 10 to 500 ng / mL .
Circulating drug also distributes into erythrocytes .
Elimination Metabolism and Excretion : Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The metabolites are observed in the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulphate conjugation .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
Specific Populations Age : Geriatric Population : A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life are seen in patients older than 75 years compared to younger subjects [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Sex : Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of absorption are greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron concentrations .
These higher plasma concentrations may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these sex - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 5 and 6 .
Table 5 .
Pharmacokinetics in Male and Female Healthy Subjects after a Single Dose of a Ondansetron 8 mg Tablet Age - group ( years ) Sex ( M / F ) Mean Weight ( kg ) N Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) Systemic Plasma Clearance L / h / kg Absolute Bioavailability 18 - 40 M F 69 . 0 62 . 7 6 5 26 . 2 42 . 7 2 . 0 1 . 7 3 . 1 3 . 5 0 . 403 0 . 354 0 . 483 0 . 663 61 - 74 M F 77 . 5 60 . 2 6 6 24 . 1 52 . 4 2 . 1 1 . 9 4 . 1 4 . 9 0 . 384 0 . 255 0 . 585 0 . 643 ≥ 75 M F 78 . 0 67 . 6 5 6 37 . 0 46 . 1 2 . 2 2 . 1 4 . 5 6 . 2 0 . 277 0 . 249 0 . 619 0 . 747 Table 6 .
Pharmacokinetics in Male and Female Healthy Subjects after a Single Dose of a Ondansetron 24 mg Tablet Age - group ( years ) Sex ( M / F ) Mean Weight ( kg ) N Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) 18 - 43 M F 84 . 1 71 . 8 8 8 125 . 8 194 . 4 1 . 9 1 . 6 4 . 7 5 . 8 Renal Impairment : Renal impairment is not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron as renal clearance represents only 5 % of the overall clearance .
However , the mean plasma clearance of ondansetron was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / min ) .
The reduction in clearance was variable and not consistent with an increase in half - life [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared with 5 . 7 hours in healthy subjects .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies CYP3A4 Inducers : Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic trial of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , a reduction in AUC , C max , and t ½ of ondansetron was observed .
This resulted in a significant increase in the clearance of ondansetron .
However , this increase is not thought to be clinically relevant [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Chemotherapeutic Agents : Carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
Antacids : Concomitant administration of antacids does not alter the absorption of ondansetron .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 mg / kg per day and 30 mg / kg per day , respectively ( approximately 4 and 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg per day , based on body surface area ) .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg per day ( approximately 6 times the maximum recommended human oral dose of 24 mg per day , based on body surface area ) did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy In two randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron tablets was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m 2 in the historical placebo comparator experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg as a single dose , 8 mg every 8 hours for 2 doses , and 32 mg as a single dose in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 .
The first or single dose was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group completed the 24 - hour trial period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron experienced no nausea during the 24 - hour trial period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group ( P = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group .
Dosage regimens of ondansetron tablets 8 mg twice daily and 32 mg once daily are not recommended for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In a second trial , efficacy of a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron tablets for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 , was confirmed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy A randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial was conducted in the US in 67 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing doxorubicin .
The first 8 mg dose of ondansetron tablets was administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose , followed by 8 mg of ondansetron tablets twice a day for 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy .
Ondansetron tablets were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day trial period .
The results of this trial are summarized in Table 7 : Table 7 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response in Patients Receiving Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ( Cyclophosphamide - based Regimen Containing Doxorubicin ) a Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes .
b Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
Ondansetron Tablets ( n = 33 ) Placebo ( n = 34 ) P Value Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 1 to 2 Emetic episodes More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 20 ( 61 % ) 6 ( 18 % ) 7 ( 21 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) 8 ( 24 % ) 24 ( 71 % ) < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Median number of emetic episodes 0 . 0 Undefined a Median time to first emetic episode ( hours ) Undefined b 6 . 5 In a double - blind US trial in 336 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin , ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered twice a day was as effective as ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting .
Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg three times daily is not a recommended regimen for the treatment of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day trial period .
See Table 8 for the details of the dosage regimens studied and results of this trial .
Table 8 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response after Ondansetron Tablets Administered Twice a Day and Three Times a Day 14 . 1 Prevention of Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy In two randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron tablets was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m 2 in the historical placebo comparator experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg as a single dose , 8 mg every 8 hours for 2 doses , and 32 mg as a single dose in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 .
The first or single dose was administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group completed the 24 - hour trial period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron experienced no nausea during the 24 - hour trial period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group ( P = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group .
Dosage regimens of ondansetron tablets 8 mg twice daily and 32 mg once daily are not recommended for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
In a second trial , efficacy of a single 24 mg oral dose of ondansetron tablets for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin greater than or equal to 50 mg / m 2 , was confirmed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy A randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial was conducted in the US in 67 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing doxorubicin .
The first 8 mg dose of ondansetron tablets was administered 30 minutes before the start of chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose , followed by 8 mg of ondansetron tablets twice a day for 2 days after the completion of chemotherapy .
Ondansetron tablets were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day trial period .
The results of this trial are summarized in Table 7 : Table 7 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response in Patients Receiving Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ( Cyclophosphamide - based Regimen Containing Doxorubicin ) a Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes .
b Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
Ondansetron Tablets ( n = 33 ) Placebo ( n = 34 ) P Value Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 1 to 2 Emetic episodes More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 20 ( 61 % ) 6 ( 18 % ) 7 ( 21 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) 8 ( 24 % ) 24 ( 71 % ) < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Median number of emetic episodes 0 . 0 Undefined a Median time to first emetic episode ( hours ) Undefined b 6 . 5 In a double - blind US trial in 336 patients receiving a cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy regimen containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin , ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered twice a day was as effective as ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting .
Ondansetron Tablets 8 mg three times daily is not a recommended regimen for the treatment of moderately emetogenic chemotherapy [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Treatment response was based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day trial period .
See Table 8 for the details of the dosage regimens studied and results of this trial .
Table 8 .
Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response after Ondansetron Tablets Administered Twice a Day and Three Times a Day 14 . 2 Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting Total Body Irradiation In a randomized , placebo - controlled , double - blind trial in 20 patients , 8 mg of ondansetron tablets administered 1 . 5 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy for 4 days was significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by total body irradiation .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions ( 120 cGy per fraction ) over 4 days for a total of 1 , 320 cGy .
Patients received 3 fractions for 3 days , then 2 fractions on Day 4 .
Single High - dose Fraction Radiotherapy In an active - controlled , double - blind trial in 105 patients receiving single high - dose radiotherapy ( 800 to 1 , 000 cGy ) over an anterior or posterior field size of greater than or equal to 80 cm2 to the abdomen , ondansetron tablets was significantly more effective than metoclopramide with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets ( 8 mg ) or metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy .
If radiotherapy was given in the morning , 8 mg of ondansetron tablets or 10 mg of metoclopramide was administered in the late afternoon and repeated again before bedtime .
If radiotherapy was given in the afternoon , patients took 8 mg of ondansetron tablets or 10 mg of metoclopramide only once before bedtime .
Patients continued the doses of oral medication three times daily for 3 days .
Daily Fractionated Radiotherapy In an active - controlled , double - blind trial in 135 patients receiving a 1 - to 4 - week course of fractionated radiotherapy ( 180 cGy doses ) over a field size of greater than or equal to 100 cm 2 to the abdomen , ondansetron tablets was significantly more effective than prochlorperazine with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets ( 8 mg ) or prochlorperazine ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before the first daily radiotherapy fraction , with subsequent 8 mg doses approximately every 8 hours on each day of radiotherapy .
14 . 3 Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting In 2 placebo - controlled , double - blind trials ( one conducted in the US and the other outside the US ) in 865 females undergoing inpatient surgical procedures , ondansetron tablets 16 mg as a single dose or placebo was administered one hour before the induction of general balanced anesthesia ( barbiturate , opioid , nitrous oxide , neuromuscular blockade , and supplemental isoflurane or enflurane ) , ondansetron tablets was significantly more effective than placebo in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting .
No trials have been performed in males .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Ondansetron Tablets Ondansetron Tablets USP , 4 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride dihydrate equivalent to 4 mg of ondansetron ) , are white , oval , film - coated tablets engraved with “ 4 ” on one side and “ NO ” on another side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 45963 - 538 - 30 Bottles of 30 Ondansetron Tablets USP , 8 mg ( ondansetron hydrochloride dihydrate equivalent to 8 mg of ondansetron ) , are yellow , oval , film - coated tablets engraved with “ 8 ” on one side and “ NO ” on the other side .
They are supplied as follows : NDC 45963 - 539 - 30 Bottles of 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION QT Prolongation Inform patients that ondansetron tablets may cause serious cardiac arrhythmias such as QT prolongation .
Instruct patients to tell their healthcare provider right away if they perceive a change in their heart rate , if they feel lightheaded , or if they have a syncopal episode .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Inform patients that ondansetron tablets may cause hypersensitivity reactions , some as severe as anaphylaxis and bronchospasm .
Instruct patients to immediately report any signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions , including fever , chills , rash , or breathing problems to their healthcare provider .
Masking of Progressive Ileus and Gastric Distension Inform patients following abdominal surgery or those with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting that ondansetron tablets may mask signs and symptoms of bowel obstruction .
Instruct patients to immediately report any signs or symptoms consistent with a potential bowel obstruction to their healthcare provider .
Drug Interactions • Instruct the patient to report the use of all medications , especially apomorphine , to their healthcare provider .
Concomitant use of apomorphine and ondansetron tablets may cause a significant drop in blood pressure and loss of consciousness .
• Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of ondansetron tablets and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma Inc . , Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Manufactured by : Natco Pharma Limited Kothur - 509 228 , India Sumansetron [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
