Atrix ™ Acne Treatment Cream ( 2 fl oz ) 59 mL Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses : ■ for the treatment of acne ■ dries and clears acne pimples , acne blemishes , whiteheads and blackheads ■ helps prevent the development of new acne pimples , acne blemishes , whiteheads and blackheads Warnings For external use only When using this product ■ skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
■ rinse right away with water if it gets in eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor ■ if skin irritation occurs or gets worse Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product ■ cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily ■ because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor ■ if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Use under the direction of a medical practitioner .
Other information ■ protect from freezing ■ avoid excessive heat Store at 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Avoid excessive heat .
Do not use if package is damaged .
Keep this and all medication out of reach of children .
Inactive ingredients Allyl Methacrylates Crosspolymer , Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Butylene Glycol , Caprylyl Glycol , Carbomer , Cetearyl Olivate , Cyclopentasiloxane , Decyl Glucoside , Dimethicone , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate , Disodium EDTA , Ethylhexylglycerin , Alpha - Glucan Oligosaccharide , Glucosamine HCl , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Hexylene Glycol , Laminaria Digitata ( Algae ) Extract , Oligopeptide - 10 , Palmitic Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Polysilicone - 11 , Saccharomyces Cerevisiae Extract , Sodium Ascorbyl Phosphate , Sodium Hydroxide , Sorbitan Olivate , Stearic Acid , DL - alpha - Tocopheryl Acetate , Urea Call toll - free : 1 - 877 - 921 - 7873 Atrix ™ Antibacterial Wash ( 4 fl oz ) 118 mL Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne treatment Use ■ for the treatment of acne ■ dries and clears acne pimples , acne blemishes , whiteheads , and blackheads ■ helps prevent the development of new acne pimples , acne blemishes , whiteheads , and blackheads Warnings For external use only .
When using this product ■ skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
■ rinse right away with water if it gets in eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor ■ if skin irritation occurs or gets worse Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions ■ Cleanse twice a day .
■ Wet face .
Apply to hands , add water and work into a lather .
■ Massage face gently .
■ Rinse thoroughly and pat dry if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Use under the direction of a medical practitioner .
Other information ■ protect from freezing ■ avoid excessive heat Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Purified Water ) , Cetyl Hydroxyethylcellulose , Citrus Paradisi ( Grapefruit ) Peel Oil , Cocamidopropyl Betaine , Disodium EDTA , Ethoxydiglycol , Glycerin , Lauryl Glucoside , Menthol , Menthyl Lactate , Pyrus Malus ( Apple ) Fruit Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Sambucus Nigra ( Elderberry ) Fruit Extract , Sodium Lauryl Glucose Carboxylate .
Questions ?
Call toll - free : 1 - 877 - 921 - 7873 Atrix ™ System [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
