DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets is ondansetron base , the racemic form of ondansetron , and a selective blocking agent of the serotonin 5 - HT 3 receptor type .
Chemically it is ( ± ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 - tetrahydro - 9 - methyl - 3 - [ ( 2 - methyl - 1 H - imidazol - 1 - yl ) methyl ] - 4 H - carbazol - 4 - one .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C 18 H 19 N 3 O representing a molecular weight of 293 . 4 .
Each 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet for oral administration contains 4 mg ondansetron , USP .
Each 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet for oral administration contains 8 mg ondansetron , USP .
Each ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet also contains the inactive ingredients aspartame , colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , glycerol distearate , magnesium stearate , mannitol , talc and strawberry flavor .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are orally administered formulation of ondansetron which rapidly disintegrates on the tongue and does not require water to aid dissolution or swallowing .
Does not meet USP Disintegration Time .
This product disintegrates in approximately 60 seconds .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics : Ondansetron is a selective 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonist .
While its mechanism of action has not been fully characterized , ondansetron is not a dopamine - receptor antagonist .
Serotonin receptors of the 5 - HT 3 type are present both peripherally on vagal nerve terminals and centrally in the chemoreceptor trigger zone of the area postrema .
It is not certain whether ondansetron ’ s antiemetic action is mediated centrally , peripherally , or in both sites .
However , cytotoxic chemotherapy appears to be associated with release of serotonin from the enterochromaffin cells of the small intestine .
In humans , urinary 5 - HIAA ( 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid ) excretion increases after cisplatin administration in parallel with the onset of emesis .
The released serotonin may stimulate the vagal afferents through the 5 - HT 3 receptors and initiate the vomiting reflex .
In animals , the emetic response to cisplatin can be prevented by pretreatment with an inhibitor of serotonin synthesis , bilateral abdominal vagotomy and greater splanchnic nerve section , or pretreatment with a serotonin 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonist .
In normal volunteers , single intravenous doses of 0 . 15 mg / kg of ondansetron had no effect on esophageal motility , gastric motility , lower esophageal sphincter pressure , or small intestinal transit time .
Multiday administration of ondansetron has been shown to slow colonic transit in normal volunteers .
Ondansetron has no effect on plasma prolactin concentrations .
Ondansetron does not alter the respiratory depressant effects produced by alfentanil or the degree of neuromuscular blockade produced by atracurium .
Interactions with general or local anesthetics have not been studied .
Pharmacokinetics : Ondansetron is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and undergoes some first - pass metabolism .
Mean bioavailability in healthy subjects , following administration of a single 8 mg tablet , is approximately 56 % .
Ondansetron systemic exposure does not increase proportionately to dose .
AUC from a 16 mg tablet was 24 % greater than predicted from an 8 mg tablet dose .
This may reflect some reduction of first - pass metabolism at higher oral doses .
Bioavailability is also slightly enhanced by the presence of food but unaffected by antacids .
Ondansetron is extensively metabolized in humans , with approximately 5 % of a radiolabeled dose recovered as the parent compound from the urine .
The primary metabolic pathway is hydroxylation on the indole ring followed by subsequent glucuronide or sulfate conjugation .
Although some nonconjugated metabolites have pharmacologic activity , these are not found in plasma at concentrations likely to significantly contribute to the biological activity of ondansetron .
In vitro metabolism studies have shown that ondansetron is a substrate for human hepatic cytochrome P - 450 enzymes , including CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , and CYP3A4 .
In terms of overall ondansetron turnover , CYP3A4 played the predominant role .
Because of the multiplicity of metabolic enzymes capable of metabolizing ondansetron , it is likely that inhibition or loss of one enzyme ( e . g . , CYP2D6 genetic deficiency ) will be compensated by others and may result in little change in overall rates of ondansetron elimination .
Ondansetron elimination may be affected by cytochrome P - 450 inducers .
In a pharmacokinetic study of 16 epileptic patients maintained chronically on CYP3A4 inducers , carbamazepine , or phenytoin , reduction in AUC , C max , and T ½ of ondansetron was observed .
1 This resulted in a significant increase in clearance .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
Gender differences were shown in the disposition of ondansetron given as a single dose .
The extent and rate of ondansetron ' s absorption is greater in women than men .
Slower clearance in women , a smaller apparent volume of distribution ( adjusted for weight ) , and higher absolute bioavailability resulted in higher plasma ondansetron levels .
These higher plasma levels may in part be explained by differences in body weight between men and women .
It is not known whether these gender - related differences were clinically important .
More detailed pharmacokinetic information is contained in Tables 1 and 2 taken from 2 studies .
Table 1 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 8 mg Ondansetron Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) Systemic Plasma Clearance L / h / kg Absolute Bioavailability 18 to 40 M F 69 6 26 . 2 2 3 . 1 0 . 403 0 . 483 62 . 7 5 42 . 7 1 . 7 3 . 5 0 . 354 0 . 663 61 to 74 M F 77 . 5 6 24 . 1 2 . 1 4 . 1 0 . 384 0 . 585 60 . 2 6 52 . 4 1 . 9 4 . 9 0 . 255 0 . 643 ≥ 75 M F 78 5 37 2 . 2 4 . 5 0 . 277 0 . 619 67 . 6 6 46 . 1 2 . 1 6 . 2 0 . 249 0 . 747 Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetics in Normal Volunteers : Single 24 mg Ondansetron Tablet Dose Age - group ( years ) Mean Weight ( kg ) n Peak Plasma Concentration ( ng / mL ) Time of Peak Plasma Concentration ( h ) Mean Elimination Half - life ( h ) 18 to 43 M F 84 . 1 71 . 8 8 8 125 . 8 194 . 4 1 . 9 1 . 6 4 . 7 5 . 8 A reduction in clearance and increase in elimination half - life are seen in patients over 75 years of age .
In clinical trials with cancer patients , safety and efficacy were similar in patients over 65 years of age and those under 65 years of age ; there was an insufficient number of patients over 75 years of age to permit conclusions in that age - group .
No dosage adjustment is recommended in the elderly .
In patients with mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment , clearance is reduced 2 - fold and mean half - life is increased to 11 . 6 hours compared to 5 . 7 hours in normals .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh 2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced 2 - fold to 3 - fold and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in half - life to 20 hours .
In patients with severe hepatic impairment , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
Due to the very small contribution ( 5 % ) of renal clearance to the overall clearance , renal impairment was not expected to significantly influence the total clearance of ondansetron .
However , ondansetron oral mean plasma clearance was reduced by about 50 % in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) .
This reduction in clearance is variable and was not consistent with an increase in half - life .
No reduction in dose or dosing frequency in these patients is warranted .
Plasma protein binding of ondansetron as measured in vitro was 70 % to 76 % over the concentration range of 10 to 500 ng / mL .
Circulating drug also distributes into erythrocytes .
4 mg and 8 mg doses of either ondansetron oral solution or ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are bioequivalent to corresponding doses of ondansetron tablets and may be used interchangeably .
One 24 mg ondansetron tablet is bioequivalent to and interchangeable with three 8 mg ondansetron tablets .
CLINICAL TRIALS Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy : In 2 randomized , double - blind , monotherapy trials , a single 24 mg ondansetron tablet was superior to a relevant historical placebo control in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 .
Steroid administration was excluded from these clinical trials .
More than 90 % of patients receiving a cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m 2 in the historical placebo comparator experienced vomiting in the absence of antiemetic therapy .
The first trial compared oral doses of ondansetron 24 mg once a day , 8 mg twice a day , and 32 mg once a day in 357 adult cancer patients receiving chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 .
A total of 66 % of patients in the ondansetron 24 mg once - a - day group , 55 % in the ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group , and 55 % in the ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group completed the 24 - hour study period with 0 emetic episodes and no rescue antiemetic medications , the primary endpoint of efficacy .
Each of the 3 treatment groups was shown to be statistically significantly superior to a historical placebo control .
In the same trial , 56 % of patients receiving oral ondansetron 24 mg once a day experienced no nausea during the 24 - hour study period , compared with 36 % of patients in the oral ondansetron 8 mg twice - a - day group ( P = 0 . 001 ) and 50 % in the oral ondansetron 32 mg once - a - day group .
In a second trial , efficacy of the oral ondansetron 24 mg once - a - day regimen in the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 , was confirmed .
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy : In 1 double - blind US study in 67 patients , ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered twice a day were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 3 : Table 3 : Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . Ondansetron tablets [ 1 ] Placebo P Value Number of patients 33 34 Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 20 ( 61 % ) 2 ( 6 % ) < 0 . 001 1 to 2 Emetic episodes 6 ( 18 % ) 8 ( 24 % ) More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 7 ( 21 % ) 24 ( 71 % ) < 0 . 001 Median number of emetic episodes 0 Undefined [ 2 ] Median time to first emetic episode ( h ) Undefined [ 3 ] 6 . 5 [ 1 ] The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 mg ondansetron tablet was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy [ 2 ] Median undefined since at least 50 % of the patients were withdrawn or had more than 2 emetic episodes [ 3 ] Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes .
In 1 double - blind US study in 336 patients , ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered twice a day were as effective as ondansetron tablets 8 mg administered 3 times a day in preventing nausea and vomiting induced by cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy containing either methotrexate or doxorubicin .
Treatment response is based on the total number of emetic episodes over the 3 - day study period .
The results of this study are summarized in Table 4 : Table 4 : Emetic Episodes : Treatment Response Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . Ondansetron tablets [ 1 ] 8 mg t . i . d . Ondansetron tablets [ 2 ] Number of patients 165 171 Treatment response 0 Emetic episodes 101 ( 61 % ) 99 ( 58 % ) 1 to 2 Emetic episodes 16 ( 10 % ) 17 ( 10 % ) More than 2 emetic episodes / withdrawn 48 ( 29 % ) 55 ( 32 % ) Median number of emetic episodes 0 0 Median time to first emetic episode ( h ) Undefined [ 3 ] Undefined null Median nausea scores ( 0 to 100 ) [ 4 ] 6 6 [ 1 ] The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 mg ondansetron tablet was administered twice a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy [ 2 ] The first dose was administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
An 8 mg ondansetron tablet was administered 3 times a day for 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
[ 3 ] Median undefined since at least 50 % of patients did not have any emetic episodes [ 4 ] Visual analog scale assessment : 0 = no nausea , 100 = nausea as bad as it can be .
Re - treatment : I n uncontrolled trials , 148 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy were re - treated with ondansetron tablets 8 mg 3 times daily during subsequent chemotherapy for a total of 396 re - treatment courses .
No emetic episodes occurred in 314 ( 79 % ) of the re - treatment courses , and only 1 to 2 emetic episodes occurred in 43 ( 11 % ) of the re - treatment courses .
Pediatric Studies : Three open - label , uncontrolled , foreign trials have been performed with 182 pediatric patients 4 to 18 years old with cancer who were given a variety of cisplatin or noncisplatin regimens .
In these foreign trials , the initial dose of ondansetron ( ondansetron HCl ) injection ranged from 0 . 04 to 0 . 87 mg / kg for a total dose of 2 . 16 mg to 12 mg .
This was followed by the administration of ondansetron tablets ranging from 4 mg to 24 mg daily for 3 days .
In these studies , 58 % of the 170 evaluable patients had a complete response ( no emetic episodes ) on day 1 .
Two studies showed the response rates for patients less than 12 years of age who received ondansetron tablets 4 mg 3 times a day to be similar to those in patients 12 to 18 years of age who received ondansetron tablets 8 mg 3 times daily .
Thus , prevention of emesis in these pediatric patients was essentially the same as for patients older than 18 years of age .
Overall , ondansetron tablets were well tolerated in these pediatric patients .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : Total Body Irradiation : In a randomized , double - blind study in 20 patients , ondansetron tablets ( 8 mg given 1 . 5 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy for 4 days ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing vomiting induced by total body irradiation .
Total body irradiation consisted of 11 fractions ( 120 cGy per fraction ) over 4 days for a total of 1 , 320 cGy .
Patients received 3 fractions for 3 days , then 2 fractions on day 4 .
Single High - Dose Fraction Radiotherapy : Ondansetron was significantly more effective than metoclopramide with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 105 patients receiving single high - dose radiotherapy ( 800 to 1 , 000 cGy ) over an anterior or posterior field size of ≥ 80 cm 2 to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets ( 8 mg ) or metoclopramide ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy .
If radiotherapy was given in the morning , 2 additional doses of study treatment were given ( 1 tablet late afternoon and 1 tablet before bedtime ) .
If radiotherapy was given in the afternoon , patients took only 1 further tablet that day before bedtime .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis for 3 days .
Daily Fractionated Radiotherapy : Ondansetron was significantly more effective than prochlorperazine with respect to complete control of emesis ( 0 emetic episodes ) in a double - blind trial in 135 patients receiving a 1 - to 4 - week course of fractionated radiotherapy ( 180 cGy doses ) over a field size of ≥ 100 cm 2 to the abdomen .
Patients received the first dose of ondansetron tablets ( 8 mg ) or prochlorperazine ( 10 mg ) 1 to 2 hours before the patient received the first daily radiotherapy fraction , with 2 subsequent doses on a 3 times a day basis .
Patients continued the oral medication on a 3 times a day basis on each day of radiotherapy .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : Surgical patients who received ondansetron 1 hour before the induction of general balanced anesthesia ( barbiturate : thiopental , methohexital , or thiamylal ; opioid : alfentanil , sufentanil , morphine , or fentanyl ; nitrous oxide ; neuromuscular blockade : succinylcholine / curare or gallamine and / or vecuronium , pancuronium , or atracurium ; and supplemental isoflurane or enflurane ) were evaluated in 2 double - blind studies ( 1 US study , 1 foreign ) involving 865 patients .
Ondansetron tablets ( 16 mg ) were significantly more effective than placebo in preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting .
The study populations in all trials thus far consisted of women undergoing inpatient surgical procedures .
No studies have been performed in males .
No controlled clinical study comparing ondansetron tablets to ondansetron injection has been performed .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE • Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of moderately emetogenic cancer chemotherapy .
• Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with radiotherapy in patients receiving either total body irradiation , single high - dose fraction to the abdomen , or daily fractions to the abdomen .
• Prevention of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting .
As with other antiemetics , routine prophylaxis is not recommended for patients in whom there is little expectation that nausea and / or vomiting will occur postoperatively .
In patients where nausea and / or vomiting must be avoided postoperatively , ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are recommended even where the incidence of postoperative nausea and / or vomiting is low .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron .
Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are contraindicated for patients known to have hypersensitivity to the drug .
WARNINGS Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients who have exhibited hypersensitivity to other selective 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists .
ECG changes including QT interval prolongation has been seen in patients receiving ondansetron .
In addition , postmarketing cases of Torsade de Pointes have been reported in patients using ondansetron .
Avoid ondansetron in patients with congenital long QT syndrome .
ECG monitoring is recommended in patients with electrolyte abnormalities ( e . g . , hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia ) , congestive heart failure , bradyarrhythmias or patients taking other medicinal products that lead to QT prolongation .
The development of serotonin syndrome has been reported with 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists alone .
Most reports have been associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , monoamine oxidase inhibitors , mirtazapine , fentanyl , lithium , tramadol , and intravenous methylene blue ) .
Some of the reported cases were fatal .
Serotonin syndrome occurring with overdose of ondansetron alone has also been reported .
The majority of reports of serotonin syndrome related to 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonist use occurred in a post - anesthesia care unit or an infusion center .
Symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome may include the following combination of signs and symptoms : mental status changes ( e . g . , agitation , hallucinations , delirium , and coma ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , dizziness , diaphoresis , flushing , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular symptoms ( e . g . , tremor , rigidity , myoclonus , hyperreflexia , incoordination ) , seizures , with or without gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome , especially with concomitant use of ondansetron and other serotonergic drugs .
If symptoms of serotonin syndrome occur , discontinue ondansetron and initiate supportive treatment .
Patients should be informed of the increased risk of serotonin syndrome , especially if ondansetron is used concomitantly with other serotonergic drugs ( see PRECAUTIONS and OVERDOSAGE ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : Ondansetron is not a drug that stimulates gastric or intestinal peristalsis .
It should not be used instead of nasogastric suction .
The use of ondansetron in patients following abdominal surgery or in patients with chemotherapy - induced nausea and vomiting may mask a progressive ileus and / or gastric distension .
Information for Patients : Phenylketonurics : Phenylketonuric patients should be informed that ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets contain phenylalanine ( a component of aspartame ) .
Each 4 mg and 8 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains < 0 . 04 mg phenylalanine .
Patients should be instructed not to remove ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets from the blister until just prior to dosing .
The tablet should not be pushed through the foil .
With dry hands , the blister backing should be peeled completely off the blister .
The tablet should be gently removed and immediately placed on the tongue to dissolve and be swallowed with the saliva .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Serotonin Syndrome : Advise patients of the possibility of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of ondansetron and another serotonergic agent such as medications to treat depression and migraines .
Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if the following symptoms occur : changes in mental status , autonomic instability , neuromuscular symptoms with or without gastrointestinal symptoms .
Drug Interactions : Ondansetron does not itself appear to induce or inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzyme system of the liver ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics ) .
Because ondansetron is metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 drug - metabolizing enzymes ( CYP3A4 , CYP2D6 , CYP1A2 ) , inducers or inhibitors of these enzymes may change the clearance and , hence , the half - life of ondansetron .
On the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment is recommended for patients on these drugs .
Apomorphine : Based on reports of profound hypotension and loss of consciousness when apomorphine was administered with ondansetron , concomitant use of apomorphine with ondansetron is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Phenytoin , Carbamazepine , and Rifampicin : In patients treated with potent inducers of CYP3A4 ( i . e . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and rifampicin ) , the clearance of ondansetron was significantly increased and ondansetron blood concentrations were decreased .
However , on the basis of available data , no dosage adjustment for ondansetron is recommended for patients on these drugs .
1 , 3 Serotonergic Drugs : Serotonin syndrome ( including altered mental status , autonomic instability , and neuromuscular symptoms ) has been described following the concomitant use of 5 - HT 3 receptor antagonists and other serotonergic drugs , including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) and serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) ( see WARNINGS ) .
Tramadol : Although no pharmacokinetic drug interaction between ondansetron and tramadol has been observed , data from 2 small studies indicate that ondansetron may be associated with an increase in patient controlled administration of tramadol .
4 , 5 Chemotherapy : Tumor response to chemotherapy in the P - 388 mouse leukemia model is not affected by ondansetron .
In humans , carmustine , etoposide , and cisplatin do not affect the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron .
In a crossover study in 76 pediatric patients , I . V . ondansetron did not increase blood levels of high - dose methotrexate .
Use in Surgical Patients : The coadministration of ondansetron had no effect on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of temazepam .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenic effects were not seen in 2 - year studies in rats and mice with oral ondansetron doses up to 10 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively .
Ondansetron was not mutagenic in standard tests for mutagenicity .
Oral administration of ondansetron up to 15 mg / kg / day did not affect fertility or general reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats and rabbits at daily oral doses up to 15 and 30 mg / kg / day , respectively , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ondansetron .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Ondansetron is excreted in the breast milk of rats .
It is not known whether ondansetron is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ondansetron is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Little information is available about dosage in pediatric patients 4 years of age or younger ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION sections for use in pediatric patients 4 to 18 years of age ) .
Geriatric Use : Of the total number of subjects enrolled in cancer chemotherapy - induced and postoperative nausea and vomiting in US - and foreign - controlled clinical trials , for which there were subgroup analyses , 938 were 65 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Dosage adjustment is not needed in patients over the age of 65 ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following have been reported as adverse events in clinical trials of patients treated with ondansetron .
A causal relationship to therapy with ondansetron has been unclear in many cases .
Chemotherapy - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events in Table 5 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adult patients receiving a single 24 mg ondansetron tablet in 2 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent highly emetogenic cisplatin - based chemotherapy regimens ( cisplatin dose ≥ 50 mg / m 2 ) .
Table 5 : Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : Single Day Therapy With 24 mg Ondansetron Tablets ( Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 24 mg q . d . n = 300 Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 124 Ondansetron 32 mg q . d . n = 117 Headache 33 ( 11 % ) 16 ( 13 % ) 17 ( 15 % ) Diarrhea 13 ( 4 % ) 9 ( 7 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) The adverse events in Table 6 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of adults receiving either 8 mg of ondansetron tablets 2 or 3 times a day for 3 days or placebo in 4 trials .
These patients were receiving concurrent moderately emetogenic chemotherapy , primarily cyclophosphamide - based regimens .
Table 6 : Principal Adverse Events in US Trials : 3 Days of Therapy With 8 mg Ondansetron Tablets ( Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy ) Event Ondansetron 8 mg b . i . d . n = 242 Ondansetron 8 mg t . i . d . n = 415 Placebo n = 262 Headache 58 ( 24 % ) 113 ( 27 % ) 34 ( 13 % ) Malaise / fatigue 32 ( 13 % ) 37 ( 9 % ) 6 ( 2 % ) Constipation 22 ( 9 % ) 26 ( 6 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Diarrhea 15 ( 6 % ) 16 ( 4 % ) 10 ( 4 % ) Dizziness 13 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 4 % ) 12 ( 5 % ) Central Nervous System : There have been rare reports consistent with , but not diagnostic of , extrapyramidal reactions in patients receiving ondansetron .
Hepatic : In 723 patients receiving cyclophosphamide - based chemotherapy in US clinical trials , AST and / or ALT values have been reported to exceed twice the upper limit of normal in approximately 1 % to 2 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets .
The increases were transient and did not appear to be related to dose or duration of therapy .
On repeat exposure , similar transient elevations in transaminase values occurred in some courses , but symptomatic hepatic disease did not occur .
The role of cancer chemotherapy in these biochemical changes cannot be clearly determined .
There have been reports of liver failure and death in patients with cancer receiving concurrent medications including potentially hepatotoxic cytotoxic chemotherapy and antibiotics .
The etiology of the liver failure is unclear .
Integumentary : Rash has occurred in approximately 1 % of patients receiving ondansetron .
Other : Rare cases of anaphylaxis , bronchospasm , tachycardia , angina ( chest pain ) , hypokalemia , electrocardiographic alterations , vascular occlusive events , and grand mal seizures have been reported .
Except for bronchospasm and anaphylaxis , the relationship to ondansetron was unclear .
Radiation - Induced Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent radiotherapy were similar to those reported in patients receiving ondansetron tablets and concurrent chemotherapy .
The most frequently reported adverse events were headache , constipation , and diarrhea .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The adverse events in Table 7 have been reported in ≥ 5 % of patients receiving ondansetron tablets at a dosage of 16 mg orally in clinical trials .
With the exception of headache , rates of these events were not significantly different in the ondansetron and placebo groups .
These patients were receiving multiple concomitant perioperative and postoperative medications .
Table 7 : Frequency of Adverse Events From Controlled Studies With Ondansetron Tablets ( Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting ) Adverse Event Ondansetron 16 mg ( n = 550 ) Placebo ( n = 531 ) Wound problem 152 ( 28 % ) 162 ( 31 % ) Drowsiness / sedation 112 ( 20 % ) 122 ( 23 % ) Headache 49 ( 9 % ) 27 ( 5 % ) Hypoxia 49 ( 9 % ) 35 ( 7 % ) Pyrexia 45 ( 8 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Dizziness 36 ( 7 % ) 34 ( 6 % ) Gynecological disorder 36 ( 7 % ) 33 ( 6 % ) Anxiety / agitation 33 ( 6 % ) 29 ( 5 % ) Bradycardia 32 ( 6 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Shiver ( s ) 28 ( 5 % ) 30 ( 6 % ) Urinary retention 28 ( 5 % ) 18 ( 3 % ) Hypotension 27 ( 5 % ) 32 ( 6 % ) Pruritus 27 ( 5 % ) 20 ( 4 % ) Preliminary observations in a small number of subjects suggest a higher incidence of headache when ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets are taken with water , when compared to without water .
Observed During Clinical Practice : In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials , the following events have been identified during post - approval use of oral formulations of ondansetron .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
The events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to ondansetron .
Cardiovascular : Rarely and predominantly with intravenous ondansetron , transient ECG changes including QT interval prolongation have been reported .
General : Flushing .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , sometimes severe ( e . g . , anaphylaxis / anaphylactoid reactions , angioedema , bronchospasm , shortness of breath , hypotension , laryngeal edema , stridor ) have also been reported .
Laryngospasm , shock , and cardiopulmonary arrest have occurred during allergic reactions in patients receiving injectable ondansetron .
Hepatobiliary : Liver enzyme abnormalities Lower Respiratory : Hiccups Neurology : Oculogyric crisis , appearing alone , as well as with other dystonic reactions Skin : Urticaria , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Special Senses : Eye Disorders : Cases of transient blindness , predominantly during intravenous administration , have been reported .
These cases of transient blindness were reported to resolve within a few minutes up to 48 hours .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Animal studies have shown that ondansetron is not discriminated as a benzodiazepine nor does it substitute for benzodiazepines in direct addiction studies .
OVERDOSAGE There is no specific antidote for ondansetron overdose .
Patients should be managed with appropriate supportive therapy .
Individual intravenous doses as large as 150 mg and total daily intravenous doses as large as 252 mg have been inadvertently administered without significant adverse events .
These doses are more than 10 times the recommended daily dose .
In addition to the adverse events listed above , the following events have been described in the setting of ondansetron overdose : “ Sudden blindness ” ( amaurosis ) of 2 to 3 minutes ’ duration plus severe constipation occurred in 1 patient that was administered 72 mg of ondansetron intravenously as a single dose .
Hypotension ( and faintness ) occurred in a patient that took 48 mg of ondansetron tablets .
Following infusion of 32 mg over only a 4 - minute period , a vasovagal episode with transient second - degree heart block was observed .
In all instances , the events resolved completely .
Pediatric cases consistent with serotonin syndrome have been reported after inadvertent oral overdoses of ondansetron ( exceeding estimated ingestion of 5 mg / kg ) in young children .
Reported symptoms included somnolence , agitation , tachycardia , tachypnea , hypertension , flushing , mydriasis , diaphoresis , myoclonic movements , horizontal nystagmus , hyperreflexia , and seizure .
Patients required supportive care , including intubation in some cases , with complete recovery without sequelae within 1 to 2 days .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Instructions for Use / Handling Ondansetron Orally Disintegrating Tablets : Do not attempt to push ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets through the foil backing .
With dry hands , PEEL BACK the foil backing of 1 blister and GENTLY remove the tablet .
IMMEDIATELY place the ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet on top of the tongue where it will dissolve in seconds , then swallow with saliva .
Administration with liquid is not necessary .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Highly Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage of ondansetron is 24 mg given as three 8 mg tablets administered 30 minutes before the start of single - day highly emetogenic chemotherapy , including cisplatin ≥ 50 mg / m 2 .
Multiday , single - dose administration of a 24 mg dosage has not been studied .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of a 24 mg dosage in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Moderately Emetogenic Cancer Chemotherapy : The recommended adult oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given twice a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with a subsequent dose 8 hours after the first dose .
One 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered twice a day ( every 12 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Pediatric Use : For pediatric patients 12 years of age and older , the dosage is the same as for adults .
For pediatric patients 4 through 11 years of age , the dosage is one 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given 3 times a day .
The first dose should be administered 30 minutes before the start of emetogenic chemotherapy , with subsequent doses 4 and 8 hours after the first dose .
One 4 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) for 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy .
Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Prevention of Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Radiotherapy , Either Total Body Irradiation , or Single High - Dose Fraction or Daily Fractions to the Abdomen : The recommended oral dosage is one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet given 3 times a day .
For total body irradiation , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before each fraction of radiotherapy administered each day .
For single high - dose fraction radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for 1 to 2 days after completion of radiotherapy .
For daily fractionated radiotherapy to the abdomen , one 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablet should be administered 1 to 2 hours before radiotherapy , with subsequent doses every 8 hours after the first dose for each day radiotherapy is given .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets , in the prevention of radiation - induced nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting : The recommended dosage is 16 mg given as two 8 mg ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets 1 hour before induction of anesthesia .
Pediatric Use : There is no experience with the use of ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : The dosage is the same as for the general population .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Renal Function : The dosage recommendation is the same as for the general population .
There is no experience beyond first - day administration of ondansetron .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function : In patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh 2 score of 10 or greater ) , clearance is reduced and apparent volume of distribution is increased with a resultant increase in plasma half - life .
In such patients , a total daily dose of 8 mg should not be exceeded .
HOW SUPPLIED Ondansetron orally disintegrating tablets , 8 mg ( as 8 mg ondansetron base ) are white to off white , oval , uncoated tablets debossed with “ 241 ” on one side , plain on the other side .
NDC : 70518 - 0235 - 00 PACKAGING : 10 in 1 BLISTER PACK Store between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 REFERENCES • Britto MR , Hussey EK , Mydlow P , et al .
Effect of enzyme inducers on ondansetron ( OND ) metabolism in humans .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1997 ; 61 : 228 .
• Pugh RNH , Murray - Lyon IM , Dawson JL , Pietroni MC , Williams R . Transection of the oesophagus for bleeding oesophageal varices .
Brit J Surg .
1973 ; 60 : 646 - 649 .
• Villikka K , Kivisto KT , Neuvonen PJ , The effect of rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of oral and intravenous ondansetron .
Clin Pharmacol Ther .
1999 ; 65 : 377 - 381 .
• De Witte JL , Schoenmaekers B , Sessler DI , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2001 ; 92 : 1319 - 1321 .
• Arcioni R , della Rocca M , Romanò R , et al .
Anesth Analg .
2002 ; 94 : 1553 - 1557 .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : ONDANSETRON GENERIC : ONDANSETRON DOSAGE : TABLET , ORALLY DISINTEGRATING ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 0235 - 0 COLOR : white FLAVOR : STRAWBERRY SHAPE : OVAL SCORE : No score SIZE : 13 mm IMPRINT : 241 PACKAGING : 10 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • ONDANSETRON 8 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • ASPARTAME • SILICON DIOXIDE • CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM • GLYCERYL DISTEARATE • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • MANNITOL • TALC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
