Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch liquid Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes due to • seborrheic dermatitis • eczema • psoriasis • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Avoid contact with the eyes If condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , stop use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor Do not use for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : do not use ; consult a doctor • twist the flow - control cap to open • apply at first signs of itching • if using after shampooing , towel dry hair • apply from bottle directly to scalp , massage in • to avoid running or dripping , do not squeeze bottle too hard Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • protect from humidity • flammable .
Keep away from fire , flame or heat .
• keep carton for full product information Inactive ingredients Alcohol Denat . , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Dipropylene Glycol , Disodium EDTA , Glycerin , Melaleuca Alternifolia Leaf Oil , Menthol , PEG - 40 / PPG - 8 Methylaminopropyl / Hydroxypropyl Dimethicone Copolymer , Propylene Glycol , t - Butyl Alcohol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Water Questions ?
1 - 866 - 252 - 5327 You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Distributed by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 44 mL Bottle Carton SCALPICIN ® MAXIMUM STRENGTH Hydrocortisone 1 % Anti - Itch Liquid SCALP ITCH RELIEF on the GO WITH ALOE 1 . 5 FL OZ ( 44 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
