Keralyt ® Gel ( salicylic acid ) 6 % FOR TOPICAL USE ONLY .
NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , ORAL OR INTRAVAGINAL USE .
DESCRIPTION : KERALYT ® is a gel for topical administration containing salicylic acid 6 % , in a vehicle composed of propylene glycol , SD - 40 alcohol ( 21 % ) , hydroxypropylcellulose and purified water .
Salicylic acid is the 2 hydroxy derivative of benzoic acid having the following structure : CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Salicylic acid has been shown to produce desquamation of the horny layer of skin while not affecting qualitative or quantitative changes in structure of the viable epidermis .
¹ , ² The mechanism of action has been attributed to a dissolution of intercellular cement substance .
³ In a study of the percutaneous absorption of salicylic acid from KERALYT GEL in four patients with extensive active psoriasis , Taylor and Halprin ⁴ showed that peak serum salicylate levels never exceeded 5 mg / 100 ml even though more than 60 % of the applied salicylic acid was absorbed .
Systemic toxic reactions are usually associated with much higher serum levels ( 30 to 40 mg / 100 ml ) .
Peak serum levels occurred within 5 hours of the topical application under occlusion .
The sites were occluded for 10 hours over the entire body surface below the neck .
Since salicylates are distributed in the extracellular space , patients with a contracted extracellular space due to dehydration or diuretics have higher salicylate levels than those with a normal extracellular space .
⁵ ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
The major metabolites identified in the urine after topical administration are salicyluric acid ( 52 % ) , salicylate glucuronides ( 42 % ) , and free salicylic acid ( 6 % ) .
⁴ The urinary metabolites after percutaneous absorption differ from those after oral salicylate administration ; those derived from percutaneous absorption contain more glucuronides and less salicyluric and salicylic acid .
Almost 95 % of a single dose of salicylate is excreted within 24 hours of its entrance into the extracellular space .
⁵ Fifty to eighty percent of salicylate is protein bound to albumin .
Salicylates compete with the binding of several drugs and can modify the action of these drugs .
By similar competitive mechanisms other drugs can influence the serum levels of salicylate .
⁵ ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE - For the removal of excess keratin in hyperkeratotic disorders , including scaling associated with scalp psoriasis or thickened skin of palms and soles , corns and calluses .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : KERALYT GEL should not be used in any patient known to be sensitive to salicylic acid or any other listed ingredient .
KERALYT should not be used in children under 2 years of age .
WARNINGS : Prolonged use over large areas , especially in children and those patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment , could result in salicylism .
Concomitant use of other drugs which may contribute to elevated serum salicylate levels should be avoided where the potential for toxicity is present .
In children under 12 years of age and those patients with renal or hepatic impairment , the area to be treated should be limited and the patient monitored closely for signs of salicylate toxicity : nausea , vomiting , dizziness , loss of hearing , tinnitus , lethargy , hyperpnoea , diarrhea , psychic disturbances .
In the event of salicylic acid toxicity , the use of KERALYT GEL should be discontinued .
Fluids should be administered to promote urinary excretion .
Treatment with sodium bicarbonate ( oral or intravenous ) should be instituted as appropriate .
Considering the potential risk of developing Reye ' s Syndrome , salicylate products should not be administered to children or teenagers with varicella or influenza , unless directed by a physician .
PRECAUTIONS : For external use only .
Avoid contact with eyes and other mucous membranes .
Mild burning or stinging may occur .
Peeling of the skin may increase as the salicylic acid works to loosen excess keratin .
If excessive burning , stinging or peeling occurs , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Flammable .
Keep away from heat and open flame .
Keep this and all medications out of reach of children .
Drug Interactions .
( The following interactions are from a published review ⁵ and include reports concerning both oral and topical salicylate administration .
The relationship of these interactions to the use of KERALYT GEL is not known . )
I . Due to the competition of salicylate with other drugs for binding to serum albumin the following drug interactions may occur : Drug Description of Interaction Tolbutamide ; Sulfonylureas Hypoglycemia potentiated Methotrexate Decreases tubular reabsorption ; clinical toxicity from methotrexate can result Oral Anticoagulant Increased bleeding II .
Drugs changing salicylate levels by altering renal tubular reabsorption : Drug Description Corticosteroids Decreases plasma salicylate level ; Tapering doses of steroids may promote salicylism Ammonium Sulfate Increases plasma salicylate level III .
Drugs with complicated interactions with salicylates : Drug Description Heparin Salicylate decreases platelet adhesiveness and interferes with hemostasis in heparin - treated patients Pyrazinamide Inhibits pyrazinamide - induced hyperuricemia Uricosuric Agents Effect of probenecid , sulfinpyrazone and phenylbutazone inhibited The following alterations of laboratory tests have been reported during salicylate therapy ⁶ : Laboratory Tests Effect of Salicylates Thyroid Function Decreased PBI ; increased T 3 uptake Urinary Sugar False negative with glucose oxidase ; false positive with Clinitest with high - dose salicylate therapy ( 2 - 5 g qd ) 5 Hydroxyindole acetic acid False negative with fluorometric test Acetone , Ketone Bodies False positive FeCl 3 in Gerhardt reaction ; red color persists with boiling 17 - OH corticosteroids False reduced values with > 4 . 8 g qd salicylate Vanilmandelic Acid False reduced values Uric Acid May increase or decrease depending on dose Prothrombin Decreased levels ; slightly increased prothrombin time Pregnancy ( Category C ) : Salicylic acid has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and monkeys .
It is difficult to extrapolate from oral doses of acetyl salicylic acid used in these studies to topical administration as the oral dose to monkeys may represent 4 times the maximum daily human dose of salicylic acid ( as supplied in one tube , 40 g of KERALYT GEL ) when applied topically over a large body surface .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
KERALYT GEL should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from the mother ’ s use of KERALYT GEL , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No data are available concerning potential carcinogenic or reproductive effects of KERALYT GEL .
It has been shown to lack mutagenic potential in the Ames Salmonella test .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Excessive erythema and scaling conceivably could result from use on open skin lesions .
OVERDOSAGE - See WARNINGS DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION - The preferable method of use is to apply KERALYT GEL thoroughly to the affected area and occlude the area at night .
Preferably , the skin should be hydrated for at least five minutes prior to application .
The medication is washed off in the morning and if excessive drying and / or irritation is observed a bland cream or lotion may be applied .
Once clearing is apparent , the occasional use of KERALYT GEL will usually maintain the remission .
In those areas where occlusion is difficult or impossible , application may be made more frequently ; hydration by wet packs or baths prior to application apparently enhances the effect .
Unless hands are being treated , hands should be rinsed thoroughly after application .
For use as a scalp treatment : KERALYT GEL should be applied directly to the affected areas of the scalp on a frequency directed by your physician .
The applicator tip will provide accurate application , avoiding contact with normal hair or skin .
The gel should be washed off after 10 to 20 minutes initially , but it can be left on for up to an hour as treatment progresses .
The gel can be washed off using KERALYT SHAMPOO or warm water in a bath or shower .
HOW SUPPLIED : 60 g Plastic bottle NDC 11086 - 030 - 60 Store at controlled room temperature 59 ° to 86 ° F ( 15 ° to 30 ° C ) REFERENCES : • Davies M , Marks R : Br J Dermatol 95 : 187 - 192 , 1976 .
• Marks R , Davies M , Cattel A : J Invest Dermatol 64 : 283 , 1975 .
• Huber C , Christophers E : Arch Derm Res 257 : 293 - 297 , 1977 .
• Taylor JR , Halprin KM : Arch Dermatol 111 : 740 - 743 , 1975 .
• Goldsmith LA : Int J Dermatol 18 : 32 - 36 .
• Wilson JG , Ritter EJ , Scott WJ , Fradlein R : Tox Appl Pharmacol 41 : 67 - 78 , 1977 .
SUMMERS LABORATORIES INC Manufactured by : EMS Contract Packaging , Hatfield , PA 19440 Distributed by : Summers Laboratories , Inc .
Collegeville , PA 19426 1 - 800 - 533 - SKIN ( 7546 ) • www . sumlab . com KERALYT is a trademark of Summers Laboratories , Inc .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
