WARNING : RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH OPIOIDS Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required .
Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
Diazepam Tablets USP are a benzodiazepine derivative .
Chemically , diazepam , USP is 7 - chloro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - methyl - 5 - phenyl - 2 H - 1 , 4 - benzodiazepin - 2 - one .
It is a colorless to light yellow crystalline compound , and is insoluble in water .
Its structural formula is : [ Diazepam Structural Formula ] C16H13ClN2O M . W . 284 . 75 Diazepam Tablets USP are available as 2 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg tablets for oral administration and contain the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide ; colorants : 5 mg only ( D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 ) ; 10 mg only ( FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake ) ; magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized corn starch , and sodium starch glycolate .
Diazepam is a benzodiazepine that exerts anxiolytic , sedative , muscle - relaxant , anticonvulsant and amnestic effects .
Most of these effects are thought to result from a facilitation of the action of gamma aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) , an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration > 90 % of diazepam is absorbed and the average time to achieve peak plasma concentrations is 1 to 1 . 5 hours with a range of 0 . 25 to 2 . 5 hours .
Absorption is delayed and decreased when administered with a moderate fat meal .
In the presence of food mean lag times are approximately 45 minutes as compared with 15 minutes when fasting .
There is also an increase in the average time to achieve peak concentrations to about 2 . 5 hours in the presence of food as compared with 1 . 25 hours when fasting .
This results in an average decrease in Cmax of 20 % in addition to a 27 % decrease in AUC ( range 15 % to 50 % ) when administered with food .
Distribution Diazepam and its metabolites are highly bound to plasma proteins ( diazepam 98 % ) .
Diazepam and its metabolites cross the blood - brain and placental barriers and are also found in breast milk in concentrations approximately one tenth of those in maternal plasma ( days 3 to 9 post - partum ) .
In young healthy males , the volume of distribution at steady - state is 0 . 8 to 1 L / kg .
The decline in the plasma concentration - time profile after oral administration is biphasic .
The initial distribution phase has a half - life of approximately 1 hour , although it may range up to > 3 hours .
Metabolism Diazepam is N - demethylated by CYP3A4 and 2C19 to the active metabolite N - desmethyldiazepam , and is hydroxylated by CYP3A4 to the active metabolite temazepam .
N - desmethyldiazepam and temazepam are both further metabolized to oxazepam .
Temazepam and oxazepam are largely eliminated by glucuronidation .
Elimination The initial distribution phase is followed by a prolonged terminal elimination phase ( half - life up to 48 hours ) .
The terminal elimination half - life of the active metabolite N - desmethyldiazepam is up to 100 hours .
Diazepam and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine , predominantly as their glucuronide conjugates .
The clearance of diazepam is 20 to 30 mL / min in young adults .
Diazepam accumulates upon multiple dosing and there is some evidence that the terminal elimination half - life is slightly prolonged .
Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations Children In children 3 to 8 years old the mean half - life of diazepam has been reported to be 18 hours .
Newborns In full term infants , elimination half - lives around 30 hours have been reported , with a longer average half - life of 54 hours reported in premature infants of 28 to 34 weeks gestational age and 8 to 81 days post - partum .
In both premature and full term infants the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam shows evidence of continued accumulation compared to children .
Longer half - lives in infants may be due to incomplete maturation of metabolic pathways .
Geriatric Elimination half - life increases by approximately 1 hour for each year of age beginning with a half - life of 20 hours at 20 years of age .
This appears to be due to an increase in volume of distribution with age and a decrease in clearance .
Consequently , the elderly may have lower peak concentrations , and on multiple dosing higher trough concentrations .
It will also take longer to reach steady - state .
Conflicting information has been published on changes of plasma protein binding in the elderly .
Reported changes in free drug may be due to significant decreases in plasma proteins due to causes other than simply aging .
Hepatic Insufficiency In mild and moderate cirrhosis , average half - life is increased .
The average increase has been variously reported from 2 fold to 5 fold , with individual half - lives over 500 hours reported .
There is also an increase in volume of distribution , and average clearance decreases by almost half .
Mean half - life is also prolonged with hepatic fibrosis to 90 hours ( range 66 to 104 hours ) , with chronic active hepatitis to 60 hours ( range 26 to 76 hours ) , and with acute viral hepatitis to 74 hours ( range 49 to 129 ) .
In chronic active hepatitis , clearance is decreased by almost half .
Diazepam Tablets are indicated for the management of anxiety disorders or for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety .
Anxiety or tension associated with the stress of everyday life usually does not require treatment with an anxiolytic .
In acute alcohol withdrawal , Diazepam Tablets may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation , tremor , impending or acute delirium tremens and hallucinosis .
Diazepam Tablets are a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathology ( such as inflammation of the muscles or joints , or secondary to trauma ) , spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders ( such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia ) , athetosis , and stiff - man syndrome .
Oral diazepam may be used adjunctively in convulsive disorders , although it has not proved useful as the sole therapy .
The effectiveness of Diazepam Tablets in long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should periodically reassess the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
Diazepam Tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to diazepam and , because of lack of sufficient clinical experience , in pediatric patients under 6 months of age .
Diazepam Tablets are also contraindicated in patients with myasthenia gravis , severe respiratory insufficiency , severe hepatic insufficiency , and sleep apnea syndrome .
They may be used in patients with open - angle glaucoma who are receiving appropriate therapy , but are contraindicated in acute narrow - angle glaucoma .
Concomitant use of benzodiazepiones , including diazepam , and opioids may result in profound sedation , respiratory depression , coma , and death .
Because of these risks , reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate .
Observational studies have demonstrated that concomitant use of opioid analgesics and benzodiazepines increases the risk of drug - related mortality compared to use of opioids alone .
If a decision is made to prescribe diazepam concomitantly with opioids , prescribe the lowest effective dosages and minimum durations of concomitant use , and follow patients closely for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation .
In patients already receiving an opioid analgesic , prescribe a lower initial dose of diazepam than indicated in the absence of an opioid and titrate based on clinical response .
If an opioid is initiated in a patient already taking diazepam , prescribe a lower initial dose of the opioid and titrate based upon clinical response .
Advise both patients and caregivers about the risks of respiratory depression and sedation when diazepam is used with opioids .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until the effects of concomitant use with the opioid have been determined ( see Drug Interactions ) .
Diazepam is not recommended in the treatment of psychotic patients and should not be employed instead of appropriate treatment .
Since diazepam has a central nervous system depressant effect , patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS - depressant drugs during diazepam therapy .
As with other agents that have anticonvulsant activity , when diazepam is used as an adjunct in treating convulsive disorders , the possibility of an increase in the frequency and / or severity of grand mal seizures may require an increase in the dosage of standard anticonvulsant medication .
Abrupt withdrawal of diazepam in such cases may also be associated with a temporary increase in the frequency and / or severity of seizures .
Pregnancy An increased risk of congenital malformations and other developmental abnormalities associated with the use of benzodiazepine drugs during pregnancy has been suggested .
There may also be non - teratogenic risks associated with the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy .
There have been reports of neonatal flaccidity , respiratory and feeding difficulties , and hypothermia in children born to mothers who have been receiving benzodiazepines late in pregnancy .
In addition , children born to mothers receiving benzodiazepines on a regular basis late in pregnancy may be at some risk of experiencing withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period .
Diazepam has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and hamsters when given orally at daily doses of 100 mg / kg or greater ( approximately eight times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD = 1 mg / kg / day ] or greater on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate and encephalopathy are the most common and consistently reported malformations produced in these species by administration of high , maternally toxic doses of diazepam during organogenesis .
Rodent studies have indicated that prenatal exposure to diazepam doses similar to those used clinically can produce long - term changes in cellular immune responses , brain neurochemistry , and behavior .
In general , the use of diazepam in women of childbearing potential , and more specifically during known pregnancy , should be considered only when the clinical situation warrants the risk to the fetus .
The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Patients should also be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug .
Labor and Delivery Special care must be taken when diazepam is used during labor and delivery , as high single doses may produce irregularities in the fetal heart rate and hypotonia , poor sucking , hypothermia , and moderate respiratory depression in the neonates .
With newborn infants it must be remembered that the enzyme system involved in the breakdown of the drug is not yet fully developed ( especially in premature infants ) .
Nursing Mothers Diazepam passes into breast milk .
Breastfeeding is therefore not recommended in patients receiving diazepam .
General If diazepam is to be combined with other psychotropic agents or anticonvulsant drugs , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents to be employed - particularly with known compounds that may potentiate the action of diazepam , such as phenothiazines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants ( see Drug Interactions ) .
The usual precautions are indicated for severely depressed patients or those in whom there is any evidence of latent depression or anxiety associated with depression , particularly the recognition that suicidal tendencies may be present and protective measures may be necessary .
Psychiatric and paradoxical reactions are known to occur when using benzodiazepines ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Should this occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
These reactions are more likely to occur in children and the elderly .
A lower dose is recommended for patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency , due to the risk of respiratory depression .
Benzodiazepines should be used with extreme caution in patients with a history of alcohol or drug abuse ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
In debilitated patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 2 mg to 2 . 5 mg once or twice daily , initially , to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
Some loss of response to the effects of benzodiazepines may develop after repeated use of diazepam for a prolonged time .
Information for Patients To assure the safe and effective use of benzodiazepines , patients should be informed that , since benzodiazepines may produce psychological and physical dependence , it is advisable that they consult with their physician before either increasing the dose or abruptly discontinuing this drug .
The risk of dependence increases with duration of treatment ; it is also greater in patients with a history of alcohol or drug abuse .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and other CNS - depressant drugs during diazepam therapy .
As is true of most CNS - acting drugs , patients receiving diazepam should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
Drug Interactions Opioids The concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of respiratory depression because of actions at different receptor sites in the CNS that control respiration .
Benzodiazepines interact at GABAA sites and opioids interact primarily at mu receptors .
When benzodiazepines and opioids are combined , the potential for benzodiazepines to significantly worsen opioid - related respiratory depression exists .
Limit dosage and duration of concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids , and monitor patients closely for respiratory depression and sedation .
Centrally Acting Agents If diazepam is to be combined with other centrally acting agents , careful consideration should be given to the pharmacology of the agents employed particularly with compounds that may potentiate or be potentiated by the action of diazepam , such as phenothiazines , antipsychotics , anxiolytics / sedatives , hypnotics , anticonvulsants , narcotic analgesics , anesthetics , sedative antihistamines , narcotics , barbiturates , MAO inhibitors and other antidepressants .
Alcohol Concomitant use with alcohol is not recommended due to enhancement of the sedative effect .
Antacids Diazepam peak concentrations are 30 % lower when antacids are administered concurrently .
However , there is no effect on the extent of absorption .
The lower peak concentrations appear due to a slower rate of absorption , with the time required to achieve peak concentrations on average 20 to 25 minutes greater in the presence of antacids .
However , this difference was not statistically significant .
Compounds Which Inhibit Certain Hepatic Enzymes There is a potentially relevant interaction between diazepam and compounds which inhibit certain hepatic enzymes ( particularly cytochrome P450 3 A and 2C19 ) .
Data indicate that these compounds influence the pharmacokinetics of diazepam and may lead to increased and prolonged sedation .
At present , this reaction is known to occur with cimetidine , ketoconazole , fluvoxamine , fluoxetine , and omeprazole .
Phenytoin There have also been reports that the metabolic elimination of phenytoin is decreased by diazepam .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In studies in which mice and rats were administered diazepam in the diet at a dose of 75 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 and 12 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD = 1 mg / kg / day ] on a mg / m2 basis ) for 80 and 104 weeks , respectively , an increased incidence of liver tumors was observed in males of both species .
The data currently available are inadequate to determine the mutagenic potential of diazepam .
Reproduction studies in rats showed decreases in the number of pregnancies and in the number of surviving offspring following administration of an oral dose of 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 16 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) prior to and during mating and throughout gestation and lactation .
No adverse effects on fertility or offspring viability were noted at a dose of 80 mg / kg / day ( approximately 13 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy Category D ( see WARNINGS , Pregnancy ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established .
Geriatric Use In elderly patients , it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation ( 2 mg to 2 . 5 mg once or twice daily , initially to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated ) .
Extensive accumulation of diazepam and its major metabolite , desmethyldiazepam , has been noted following chronic administration of diazepam in healthy elderly male subjects .
Metabolites of this drug are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Hepatic Insufficiency Decreases in clearance and protein binding , and increases in volume of distribution and half - life have been reported in patients with cirrhosis .
In such patients , a 2 to 5 fold increase in mean half - life has been reported .
Delayed elimination has also been reported for the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam .
Benzodiazepines are commonly implicated in hepatic encephalopathy .
Increases in half - life have also been reported in hepatic fibrosis and in both acute and chronic hepatitis ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics in Special Populations , Hepatic Insufficiency ) .
Side effects most commonly reported were drowsiness , fatigue , muscle weakness , and ataxia .
The following have also been reported : Central Nervous System : confusion , depression , dysarthria , headache , slurred speech , tremor , vertigo Gastrointestinal System : constipation , nausea , gastrointestinal disturbances Special Senses : blurred vision , diplopia , dizziness Cardiovascular System : hypotension Psychiatric and Paradoxical Reactions : stimulation , restlessness , acute hyperexcited states , anxiety , agitation , aggressiveness , irritability , rage , hallucinations , psychoses , delusions , increased muscle spasticity , insomnia , sleep disturbances , and nightmares .
Inappropriate behavior and other adverse behavioral effects have been reported when using benzodiazepines .
Should these occur , use of the drug should be discontinued .
They are more likely to occur in children and in the elderly .
Urogenital System : incontinence , changes in libido , urinary retention Skin and Appendages : skin reactions Laboratories : elevated transaminases and alkaline phosphatase Other : changes in salivation , including dry mouth , hypersalivation Antegrade amnesia may occur using therapeutic dosages , the risk increasing at higher dosages .
Amnestic effects may be associated with inappropriate behavior .
Minor changes in EEG patterns , usually low - voltage fast activity , have been observed in patients during and after diazepam therapy and are of no known significance .
Because of isolated reports of neutropenia and jaundice , periodic blood counts and liver function tests are advisable during long - term therapy .
Postmarketing Experience Injury , Poisoning and Procedural Complications : There have been reports of falls and fractures in benzodiazepine users .
The risk is increased in those taking concomitant sedatives ( including alcohol ) , and in the elderly .
Diazepam is subject to Schedule IV control under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 .
Abuse and dependence of benzodiazepines have been reported .
Addiction - prone individuals ( such as drug addicts or alcoholics ) should be under careful surveillance when receiving diazepam or other psychotropic agents because of the predisposition of such patients to habituation and dependence .
Once physical dependence to benzodiazepines has developed , termination of treatment will be accompanied by withdrawal symptoms .
The risk is more pronounced in patients on long - term therapy .
Withdrawal symptoms , similar in character to those noted with barbiturates and alcohol have occurred following abrupt discontinuance of diazepam .
These withdrawal symptoms may consist of tremor , abdominal and muscle cramps , vomiting , sweating , headache , muscle pain , extreme anxiety , tension , restlessness , confusion and irritability .
In severe cases , the following symptoms may occur : derealization , depersonalization , hyperacusis , numbness and tingling of the extremities , hypersensitivity to light , noise and physical contact , hallucinations or epileptic seizures .
The more severe withdrawal symptoms have usually been limited to those patients who had received excessive doses over an extended period of time .
Generally milder withdrawal symptoms ( e . g . , dysphoria and insomnia ) have been reported following abrupt discontinuance of benzodiazepines taken continuously at therapeutic levels for several months .
Consequently , after extended therapy , abrupt discontinuation should generally be avoided and a gradual dosage tapering schedule followed .
Chronic use ( even at therapeutic doses ) may lead to the development of physical dependence : discontinuation of the therapy may result in withdrawal or rebound phenomena .
Rebound Anxiety : A transient syndrome whereby the symptoms that led to treatment with diazepam recur in an enhanced form .
This may occur upon discontinuation of treatment .
It may be accompanied by other reactions including mood changes , anxiety , and restlessness .
Since the risk of withdrawal phenomena and rebound phenomena is greater after abrupt discontinuation of treatment , it is recommended that the dosage be decreased gradually .
Overdose of benzodiazepines is usually manifested by central nervous system depression ranging from drowsiness to coma .
In mild cases , symptoms include drowsiness , confusion , and lethargy .
In more serious cases , symptoms may include ataxia , diminished reflexes , hypotonia , hypotension , respiratory depression , coma ( rarely ) , and death ( very rarely ) .
Overdose of benzodiazepines in combination with other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) may be fatal and should be closely monitored .
Management of Overdosage Following overdose with oral benzodiazepines , general supportive measures should be employed including the monitoring of respiration , pulse , and blood pressure .
Vomiting should be induced ( within 1 hour ) if the patient is conscious .
Gastric lavage should be undertaken with the airway protected if the patient is unconscious .
Intravenous fluids should be administered .
If there is no advantage in emptying the stomach , activated charcoal should be given to reduce absorption .
Special attention should be paid to respiratory and cardiac function in intensive care .
General supportive measures should be employed , along with intravenous fluids , and an adequate airway maintained .
Should hypotension develop , treatment may include intravenous fluid therapy , repositioning , judicious use of vasopressors appropriate to the clinical situation , if indicated , and other appropriate countermeasures .
Dialysis is of limited value .
As with the management of intentional overdosage with any drug , it should be considered that multiple agents may have been ingested .
Flumazenil , a specific benzodiazepine - receptor antagonist , is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of the sedative effects of benzodiazepines and may be used in situations when an overdose with a benzodiazepine is known or suspected .
Prior to the administration of flumazenil , necessary measures should be instituted to secure airway , ventilation and intravenous access .
Flumazenil is intended as an adjunct to , not as a substitute for , proper management of benzodiazepine overdose .
Patients treated with flumazenil should be monitored for resedation , respiratory depression and other residual benzodiazepine effects for an appropriate period after treatment .
The prescriber should be aware of a risk of seizure in association with flumazenil treatment , particularly in long - term benzodiazepine users and in cyclic antidepressant overdose .
Caution should be observed in the use of flumazenil in epileptic patients treated with benzodiazepines .
The complete flumazenil package insert , including CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS , should be consulted prior to use .
Withdrawal symptoms of the barbiturate type have occurred after the discontinuation of benzodiazepines ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
Dosage should be individualized for maximum beneficial effect .
While the usual daily dosages given below will meet the needs of most patients , there will be some who may require higher doses .
In such cases dosage should be increased cautiously to avoid adverse effects .
ADULTS : USUAL DAILY DOSE : Management of Anxiety Disorders and Relief of Symptoms of Anxiety .
Depending upon severity of symptoms – 2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily Symptomatic Relief in Acute Alcohol Withdrawal .
10 mg , 3 or 4 times during the first 24 hours , reducing to 5 mg , 3 or 4 times daily as needed Adjunctively for Relief of Skeletal Muscle Spasm .
2 mg to 10 mg , 3 or 4 times daily Adjunctively in Convulsive Disorders .
2 mg to 10 mg , 2 to 4 times daily Geriatric Patients , or in the presence of debilitating disease .
2 mg to 2 . 5 mg , 1 or 2 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated PEDIATRIC PATIENTS : Because of varied responses to CNS - acting drugs , initiate therapy with lowest dose and increase as required .
Not for use in pediatric patients under 6 months .
1 mg to 2 . 5 mg , 3 or 4 times daily initially ; increase gradually as needed and tolerated Diazepam Tablets USP , 2 mg are available as white , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3925 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 2 mg of diazepam , USP .
2 mg packaged in bottles of 100 tablets 2 mg packaged in bottles of 500 tablets Diazepam Tablets USP , 5 mg are available as yellow , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3926 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 5 mg of diazepam , USP .
5 mg packaged in bottles of 100 tablets 5 mg packaged in bottles of 500 tablets 5 mg packaged in bottles of 1000 tablets Diazepam Tablets USP , 10 mg are available as light blue , round , flat face , beveled edge tablets , debossed “ 3927 ” and bisected on one side and “ TEVA ” on the other side , containing 10 mg of diazepam , USP .
10 mg packaged in bottles of 100 tablets 10 mg packaged in bottles of 500 tablets 10 mg packaged in bottles of 1000 tablets Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured In Czech Republic By : Teva Czech Industries , s . r . o . Opava - Komarov , Czech Republic Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . D 3 / 2017 MEDICATION GUIDE Diazepam ( dye - AZ - e - pam ) Tablets , C - IV What is the most important information I should know about diazepam tablets ?
Diazepam tablets are a benzodiazepine medicine .
Taking benzodiazepines with opioid medicines , alcohol , or other central nervous system depressants ( including street drugs ) can cause severe drowsiness , breathing problems ( respiratory depression ) , coma and death .
Diazepam tablets can make you sleepy or dizzy , and can slow your thinking and motor skills .
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how diazepam tablets affect you .
Do not drink alcohol or take other drugs that may make you sleepy or dizzy while taking diazepam tablets without first talking to your healthcare provider .
When taken with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness , diazepam tablets may make your sleepiness or dizziness much worse .
Do not take more diazepam tablets than prescribed .
What are diazepam tablets ?
Diazepam tablets are a prescription medicine used : to treat anxiety disorders for the short - term relief of the symptoms of anxiety to relieve the symptoms of alcohol withdrawal including agitation , shakiness ( tremor ) , sudden and severe mental or nervous system changes ( delirium tremens ) and seeing or hearing things that others do not see or hear ( hallucinations ) along with other medicines for the relief of muscle spasms along with other medicines to treat seizure disorders Diazepam tablets are a federal controlled substance ( C - IV ) because it can be abused or lead to dependence .
Keep diazepam tablets in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse .
Selling or giving away diazepam tablets may harm others , and is against the law .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines or street drugs .
It is not known if diazepam tablets are safe and effective in children under 6 months of age .
It is not known if diazepam tablets are safe and effective for use longer than 4 months .
Do not take diazepam tablets if you : are allergic to diazepam or any of the ingredients in diazepam tablets .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in diazepam tablets .
have a disease that can cause muscle weakness called myasthenia gravis have severe breathing problems ( severe respiratory insufficiency ) have severe liver problems have a sleep problem called sleep apnea syndrome Before you take diazepam tablets , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior have lung disease or breathing problems have liver or kidney problems are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Diazepam tablets may harm your unborn baby .
You and your healthcare provider should decide if you should take diazepam tablets while you are pregnant .
are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Diazepam passes into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take diazepam tablets .
Do not breastfeed while taking diazepam tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking diazepam tablets with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well diazepam tablets or the other medicines work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
How should I take diazepam tablets ?
Take diazepam tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take them .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how many diazepam tablets to take and when to take them .
Talk to your healthcare provider about slowly stopping diazepam tablets to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
If you take too many diazepam tablets , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking diazepam tablets ?
Diazepam tablets can cause you to be drowsy .
Do not drive a car or operate heavy machinery until you know how diazepam tablets affect you .
You should not drink alcohol while taking diazepam tablets .
Drinking alcohol can increase your chances of having serious side effects .
What are the possible side effects of diazepam tablets ?
Diazepam tablets may cause serious side effects , including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about diazepam tablets ? ”
Seizures .
Taking diazepam tablets with other medicines used to treat epilepsy can cause an increase in the number or severity of grand mal seizures .
Withdrawal symptoms .
You may have withdrawal symptoms if you stop taking diazepam tablets suddenly .
Withdrawal symptoms can be serious and include seizures .
Mild withdrawal symptoms include a depressed mood and trouble sleeping .
Talk to your healthcare provider about slowly stopping diazepam tablets to avoid withdrawal symptoms .
Like other antiepileptic drugs , diazepam tablets may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : thoughts about suicide or dying new or worse anxiety trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) acting on dangerous impulses attempts to commit suicide feeling agitated or restless new or worse irritability an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) new or worse depression panic attacks acting aggressive , being angry , or violent other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
Abuse and dependence .
Taking diazepam tablets can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Physical and psychological dependence is not the same as drug addiction .
Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
The most common side effects of diazepam tablets include : drowsiness muscle weakness fatigue loss of control of body movements ( ataxia ) These are not all the possible side effects of diazepam tablets .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 832 - 8537 .
How should I store diazepam tablets ?
Store diazepam tablets in a tightly closed container between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) and out of the light .
Keep diazepam tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of diazepam tablets .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use diazepam tablets for a condition for which they were not prescribed .
Do not give diazepam tablets to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
They may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about diazepam tablets that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in diazepam tablets ?
Active ingredient : diazepam Inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide ; colorants : 5 mg only ( D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake and FD & C Yellow No . 6 ) ; 10 mg only ( FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake ) ; magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized corn starch , and sodium starch glycolate Manufactured In Czech Republic By : Teva Czech Industries , s . r . o . Opava - Komarov , Czech Republic Manufactured For : Teva Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
North Wales , PA 19454 Iss .
3 / 2017 For more information , go to www . tevagenerics . com or call 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Revised : March 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
