Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures mose athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • prevents recurrence of athlete ' s foot with daily use • relieves itching , burning and cracking Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from heat , sparks and open flame .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store above 120 ° F . Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents cans be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks • if conditions persists , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clear nozzle under running warm water until unclogged Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68º and 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients disteardimonium hectorite , fragrance , isobutane , isopropyl myristate , SD alcohol 40 - B , sodium bicarbonate Questions ?
Call 800 - 824 - 1706 Monday - Friday 9 am - 4 pm MST Principal Display Panel Odor Control Foot Powder Spray TOLNAFTATE 1 % / ANTIFUNGAL REDUCES ODOR • Cures Most Athlete ' s Foot & Reduces Foot Odor Relieves Itching , Cracking & Burning Talc - Free NET WT 4 OZ ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
