SCENESSE ® is indicated to increase pain free light exposure in adult patients with a history of phototoxic reactions from erythropoietic protoporphyria ( EPP ) .
SCENESSE is a melanocortin 1 receptor ( MC1 - R ) agonist indicated to increase pain free light exposure in adult patients with a history of phototoxic reactions from erythropoietic protoporphyria ( EPP ) Important Dosage and Administration Information SCENESSE should be administered by a health care professional .
All healthcare professionals should be proficient in the subcutaneous implantation procedure and have completed the training program provided by CLINUVEL prior to administration of the SCENESSE implant [ see Dosage and Administration ] .
Additional information , including a video , is available at http : / / www . clinuvel . com / US - HCP .
The additional information has not been evaluated or approved by the FDA .
A single SCENESSE implant is inserted subcutaneously above the anterior supra - iliac crest every 2 months .
Use the SFM Implantation Cannula to implant SCENESSE .
Contact CLINUVEL INC . for other implantation devices that have been determined by the manufacturer to be suitable for implantation of SCENESSE .
Maintain sun and light protection measures during treatment with SCENESSE to prevent phototoxic reactions related to EPP .
• SCENESSE should be administered by a healthcare professional who is proficient in the subcutaneous implantation procedure and has completed training prior to administration .
• Insert a single implant , containing 16 mg of afamelanotide , using an SFM Implantation Cannula or other implantation devices that have been determined by the manufacturer to be suitable for implantation of SCENESSE .
• Administer SCENESSE subcutaneously every 2 months .
Instructions for Implantation of SCENESSE Insert a single SCENESSE implant ( containing 16 mg of afamelanotide ) subcutaneously above the anterior supra - iliac crest .
Implant SCENESSE observing an aseptic technique .
The following equipment is needed for the implant insertion : • SCENESSE implant • SFM Implantation Cannula ; use of a device that has not been determined to be suitable could result in damage to the SCENESSE implant [ see Dosage and Administration ] .
• Sterile gloves • Local anesthetic , needle and syringe • Blunt forceps suitable for removing the SCENESSE implant from the glass vial and placement of the SCENESSE implant • Sterile gauze , adhesive bandage , pressure bandage Step 1 • Take the carton containing SCENESSE out of the refrigerator to allow the product to gradually warm up to ambient temperature .
• Remove the seal and stopper from the glass vial containing SCENESSE .
Remove the implant from the vial using the blunt forceps under aseptic conditions and place the implant on a sterile gauze .
Step 2 Put the patient in a comfortable reclined supine position .
Identify the insertion site 3 - 4 cm above the anterior supra - iliac crest and disinfect the skin surface .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 ( optional ) Anesthetize the area of insertion ( puncture ) if deemed necessary and in consultation with the patient .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 While pinching the skin of the insertion site , insert the cannula with the bevel facing upwards ( away from the abdomen ) at a 30 - 45 ° angle into the subcutaneous layer .
Advance the cannula 2 cm into the subcutaneous layer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 • Remove the stylet ( obturator ) from the cannula maintaining aseptic precautions .
• Load the implant into the cannula .
• Using the stylet ( obturator ) gently push the implant down the full length of the cannula ’ s shaft .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 Apply pressure to the site of the implant while removing the stylet ( obturator ) and the cannula .
Verify that no implant or implant portion remains in the cannula .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 Verify the correct insertion and placement of the implant by palpating the skin overlying the implant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 Apply dressing to the insertion site .
Leave dressing in place for 24 hours .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 Monitor the patient for 30 minutes after the implant administration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Implant : 16 mg of afamelanotide as a solid white to off - white , bioresorbable , sterile rod approximately 1 . 7 cm in length and 1 . 45 mm in diameter .
Implant : 16 mg of afamelanotide .
None .
Skin Monitoring SCENESSE may lead to generalized increased skin pigmentation and darkening of pre - existing nevi and ephelides because of its pharmacologic effect .
A full body skin examination ( twice yearly ) is recommended to monitor pre - existing and new skin pigmentary lesions .
Skin monitoring : May induce darkening of pre - existing nevi and ephelides due to its pharmacological effect .
A regular full body skin examination ( twice yearly ) is recommended to monitor all nevi and other skin abnormalities .
Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The safety of SCENESSE was evaluated in 3 randomized , multicenter , prospective , vehicle controlled clinical trials ( Study CUV029 , Study CUV030 , and Study CUV039 ) involving 244 adult subjects with erythropoietic protoporphyria ( EPP ) without significant liver involvement .
Subjects received subcutaneous SCENESSE implants containing 16 mg of afamelanotide every 2 months .
A total of 125 subjects received SCENESSE and 119 subjects received vehicle implants .
Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in more than 2 % of subjects .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in More Than 2 % of Subjects with EPP Through Month 6 ( Studies CUV039 , CUV030 , and CUV029 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in More Than 2 % of Subjects with EPP Through Month 6 ( Studies CUV039 , CUV030 , and CUV029 ) Adverse Reaction SCENESSE n ( % ) N = 125 Vehicle n ( % ) N = 119 Implant site reaction 1 26 ( 21 % ) 12 ( 10 % ) Nausea 24 ( 19 % ) 17 ( 14 % ) Oropharyngeal pain 9 ( 7 % ) 6 ( 5 % ) Cough 8 ( 6 % ) 4 ( 3 % ) Fatigue 7 ( 6 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Skin hyperpigmentation 2 5 ( 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Dizziness 5 ( 4 % ) 4 ( 3 % ) Melanocytic nevus 5 ( 4 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) Respiratory tract infection 5 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) Somnolence 3 ( 2 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) Non - acute porphyria 2 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Skin irritation 2 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 : Implant site reaction includes : implant site bruising , discoloration , erythema , hemorrhage , hypertrophy , irritation , nodule , pain , pruritus , swelling ; injection site bruising and erythema ; and expelled implant .
2 : Skin hyperpigmentation includes skin hyperpigmentation , pigmentation lip ( subject also had skin hyperpigmentation ) , and pigmentation disorder .
Specific Adverse Reactions Implant Site Reactions : Implant site reactions were more common in the SCENESSE group ( 21 % ) compared to the vehicle group ( 10 % ) .
In the SCENESSE group , the most common implant site reaction was implant site discoloration ( 10 % ) .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % ) are implant site reaction , nausea , oropharyngeal pain , cough , fatigue , dizziness , skin hyperpigmentation , somnolence , melanocytic nevus , respiratory tract infection , non - acute porphyria , and skin irritation .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact CLINUVEL INC . at 1 - 888 - 288 - 2031 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
See PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION .
Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data on SCENESSE use in pregnant women to evaluate for any drug associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcome .
In animal reproductive and development toxicity studies , no adverse developmental effects were observed with afamelanotide administration during the period of organogenesis to pregnant rats at subcutaneous doses up to 12 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data In embryofetal development studies in Sprague Dawley and Lister Hooded rats , afamelanotide was administered subcutaneously to pregnant rats at doses of 0 . 2 , 2 , or 20 mg / kg / day throughout the period of organogenesis .
No adverse embryofetal developmental effects were observed at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD , based on a body surface area comparison ) .
In a pre - and post - natal development study in Sprague Dawley rats , afamelanotide was administered subcutaneously at doses of 0 . 2 , 2 , or 20 mg / kg / day during the period of organogenesis through lactation .
No treatment - related effects were observed at doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD , based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of afamelanotide or any of its metabolites in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effect on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for SCENESSE and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from SCENESSE or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of SCENESSE have not been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use There were 10 subjects 65 years old and over in the clinical studies for EPP [ see Clinical Studies ] .
Of the 125 subjects treated with SCENESSE in these studies , 4 ( 3 % ) were 65 years of age and older .
Clinical studies of SCENESSE did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
Descripton SCENESSE ( afamelanotide ) implant is a controlled - release dosage form for subcutaneous administration .
Afamelanotide is a melanocortin 1 receptor ( MC1 - R ) agonist .
The active ingredient afamelanotide acetate is a synthetic peptide containing 13 amino acids with molecular formula C 78 H 111 N 21 O 19 • xC 2 H 4 O 2 ( 3 ≤ x ≤ 4 ) .
The molecular weight of afamelanotide is 1646 . 85 ( anhydrous free base ) .
Afamelanotide acetate has the following structure : Ac - Ser - Tyr - Ser - Nle - Glu - His - ( D ) Phe - Arg - Trp - Gly - Lys - Pro - Val - NH 2 • xCH 3 COOH .
Afamelanotide is a white to off - white powder , freely soluble in water .
Each SCENESSE implant contains 16 mg of afamelanotide ( equivalent to 18 mg of afamelanotide acetate ) , and 15 . 3 - 19 . 5 mg of poly ( DL - lactide - co - glycolide ) .
SCENESSE implant is a single , solid white to off - white , bioresorbable and sterile rod approximately 1 . 7 cm in length and 1 . 45 mm in diameter .
The implant core comprises of the drug substance admixed with a poly ( DL - lactide - co - glycolide ) bioresorbable copolymer .
Mechanism of Action Afamelanotide is a synthetic tridecapeptide and a structural analog of α - melanocyte stimulating hormone ( α - MSH ) .
Afamelanotide is a melanocortin receptor agonist and binds predominantly to MC1 - R .
Pharmacodynamics Afamelanotide increases production of eumelanin in the skin independently of exposure to sunlight or artificial UV light sources .
Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of afamelanotide following administration of a single subcutaneous implant of SCENESSE were evaluated in 12 healthy adults .
High variability was observed in the plasma concentrations of afamelanotide and for most subjects ( 9 out of 12 ) , the last measurable afamelanotide concentration was at 96 hours post - dose .
The mean ± SD C max and AUC 0 - inf were 3 . 7 ± 1 . 3 ng / mL and 138 . 9 ± 42 . 6 hr * ng / mL , respectively .
Absorption The median T max was 36 hr .
Elimination The apparent half - life of afamelanotide is approximately 15 hr when administered subcutaneously in a controlled release implant .
Metabolism Afamelanotide may undergo hydrolysis .
However , its metabolic profile has not been fully characterized .
Specific Populations The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of afamelanotide is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies No drug interaction studies were conducted with afamelanotide .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with SCENESSE .
Afamelanotide was negative in the Ames test , in vitro mouse lymphoma assay , and in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
No effects on male or female fertility and reproductive performance were observed in rats at subcutaneous doses up to 20 mg / kg / day afamelanotide ( 12 times the MRHD , based on a body surface area comparison ) .
Three vehicle - controlled , parallel - group clinical trials of SCENESSE were conducted in subjects with EPP .
Of these trials , two trials ( Study CUV039 , NCT 01605136 , and Study CUV029 , NCT 00979745 ) were designed to assess exposure to direct sunlight on days with no phototoxic pain .
The two trials differed in the number of days of follow - up , the time windows within a day in which time spent outdoors was recorded , and how the amount of time spent in direct sunlight on each day was characterized .
The subjects enrolled in these trials were primarily Caucasian ( 98 % ) , the mean age was 40 years ( range 18 to 74 years ) , and 53 % of subjects were male and 47 % were female .
Study CUV039 enrolled 93 subjects , of whom 48 received SCENESSE ( 16 mg of afamelanotide administered subcutaneously every 2 months ) , 45 received vehicle .
Subjects received three implants and were followed for 180 days .
On each study day , subjects recorded the number of hours spent in direct sunlight between 10 am and 6 pm , the number of hours spent in shade between 10 am and 6 pm , and whether they experienced any phototoxic pain that day .
The primary endpoint was the total number of hours over 180 days spent in direct sunlight between 10 am and 6 pm on days with no pain .
The median total number of hours over 180 days spent in direct sunlight between 10 am and 6 pm on days with no pain was 64 . 1 hours for subjects receiving SCENESSE and 40 . 5 hours for subjects receiving vehicle .
Study CUV029 enrolled 74 subjects , of whom 38 received SCENESSE ( 16 mg of afamelanotide administered subcutaneously every 2 months ) , 36 received vehicle .
Subjects received five implants and were followed for 270 days .
On each study day , subjects recorded the number of hours spent outdoors between 10 am and 3 pm , whether “ most of the day ” was spent in direct sunlight , shade , or a combination of both , and whether they experienced any phototoxic pain that day .
The primary endpoint was the total number of hours over 270 days spent outdoors between 10 am and 3 pm on days with no pain for which “ most of the day ” was spent in direct sunlight .
This analysis does not include sun exposure on days for which subjects reported spending time in a combination of both direct sunlight and shade .
The median total number of hours over 270 days spent outdoors between 10 am and 3 pm on days with no pain for which “ most of the day ” was spent in direct sunlight was 6 . 0 hours for subjects in the SCENESSE group and 0 . 75 hours for subjects in the vehicle group .
SCENESSE ( afamelanotide ) implant , 16 mg , for subcutaneous administration ( NDC 73372 - 0116 - 1 ) is supplied in a Type I amber glass vial sealed with a PTFE coated rubber stopper .
Each vial contains one afamelanotide implant and is packaged individually in a cardboard box .
SCENESSE implant is a solid white to off - white , bioresorbable and sterile rod approximately 1 . 7 cm in length and 1 . 45 mm in diameter .
Store in a refrigerator at 2 ° C – 8 ° C ( 36 ° F - 46 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
SCENESSE implants are not supplied with an implantation device for subcutaneous administration [ see Dosage and Administration ] .
Concomitant Measures Advise patients to maintain sun and light protection measures during treatment with SCENESSE to prevent phototoxic reactions related to EPP .
Skin Monitoring Advise patients that darkening of pre - existing nevi and ephelides may occur with use of SCENESSE .
A full body skin examination is recommended twice yearly to monitor pre - existing and new skin pigmentary lesions .
Expelled Implant Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if the implant is expelled .
Dressing removal Advise patients that the dressing can be removed after 24 hours .
Insertion Site Care and Monitoring Advise patients to monitor the insertion site after dressing removal and to report any reaction observed at the site to their healthcare provider .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
