Urea 40 % Rx Only For topical use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Description Urea 40 % is a keratolytic emollient which is a gentle , yet potent , tissue softener for nails and / or skin .
Each gram of Urea 40 % contains 40 % urea as an active ingredient , and the following inactive ingredients : Ceteareth - 6 , Ceteareth - 25 , Cetyl Alcohol , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide , Stearyl Alcohol , Xanthan Gum .
Urea is a diamide of carbonic acid with the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clinical Pharmacology Urea gently dissolves the intracellular matrix which results in loosening of the horny layer of the skin and shedding of scaly skin at regular intervals , thereby softening hyperkeratotic areas of the skin .
Pharmacokinetics The mechanism of action of topically applied urea is not yet known .
Indications and Usage For debridement and promotion of normal healing of hyperkeratotic surface lesions , particularly where healing is retarded by local infection , necrotic tissue , fibrinous or purulent debris or eshar .
Urea is useful for the treatment of hyperkeratotic conditions such as dry , rough skin , dermatitis , psoriasis , xerosis , ichthyosis , eczema , keratosis pilaris , keratosis palmaris , keratoderma , corns and calluses , as well as damaged , ingrown and devitalized nails .
Contraindications Known hypersensitivity to any of the listed ingredients .
Warnings For topical use only .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
Precautions This medication is to be used as directed by a physician and should not be used to treat any condition other than that for which it was prescribed .
If redness or irritation occurs , discontinue use and consult a physician .
PREGNANACY Pregnancy Category B . Animal reproduction studies have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus , however , there are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproductive studies are not always predictive of human response , Urea 40 % should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether or not this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Urea 40 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Adverse Reactions Transient stinging , burning , itching or irritation may occur and normally disappear upon discontinuing the medication .
Dosage and Administration Apply Urea 40 % to affected skin twice per day , or as directed by your physician .
Rub in until completely absorbed .
Apply to diseased or damaged nail ( s ) twice per day , or as directed by a physician .
All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Please note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Each person recommending a prescription substitution using this product shall make such recommendations based on each person ' s professional opinion and knowledge , upon evaluation of the active ingredients , excipients , inactive ingredients and chemical information provided herein .
How Supplied Urea 40 % Cream 1 oz .
( 28 . 35 g ) : NDC 0904 - 7167 - 23 ; Urea 40 % Cream 3 oz .
( 85 g ) : NDC 0904 - 7167 - 83 Store at room temperature 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Ceteareth - 6 , Ceteareth - 25 , Cetyl Alcohol , Mineral Oil , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water , Sodium Hydroxide , Stearyl Alcohol , Xanthan Gum MAJOR ® NDC 0904 - 7167 Urea Cream 40 % For topical use only Not for ophthalmic use Rx Only DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Use as directed by your physician .
See insert for full prescribing information .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
For lot number and expiration date , see bottom of bottle .
Distributed by : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Rev 05 / 21 All prescription substitutions and / or recommendations using this product shall be made subject to state and federal statutes as applicable .
Pleaes note : this is not an Orange Book product and has not been subjected to FDA therapeutic equivalency or other equivalency testing .
No representation is made as to generic status or bioequivalency .
Please see package insert for more details .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
