Active Ingredients : ( in each 1 ml . )
Purpose Dextromethorphan Hydrobromide 7 . 5 mg ....................... Cough Suppressant Guaifenesin 88 mg ...................................................... Expectorant Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg ....................................................... Decongestant Uses : • Helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to drain bronchial tubes and make the cough more productive .
• Temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold .
or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • The impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep • nasal congestion due to a cold • stuffy nose Warnings in a child who is taking prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Do not Use in a child who is taking prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a Doctor before use Ask a doctor before use if the child has • Heart disease • high blood pressure • thyroid disease • diabetes • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product When using this product do not use more that directed Stop use and ask a doctor If nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever cough last more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Other Information : Each 1 mls Store between 15 - 30 degrees Celsius ( 59 - 86 Fahrenheit ) .
Other Information : • Store between 15 - 30 degrees Celsius ( 59 - 86 Fahrenheit ) .
• Tamper Evident Feature : Do not use if there is evidence of tampering Inactive Ingredient Citric Acid , FD & C red no . 40 , artificial flavors , glycerine , high fructose corn syrup , Hydroxyethyl Cellulose , methylparaben , propylene glycol , Propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , sucralose .
Dosage and Administration Do not exceed recommended dose .
Measure with the dosage device provided Children 6 to under 12 years of age 2 ml every 6 - 8 hours Children 2 to under 6 years of age 1 ml every 6 - 8 hours Children under 2 years of age Consult a doctor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
