Active ingredient Witch hazel 20 % Purpose Astringent Uses • • helps relieve the local itching and discomfort associated with hemorrhoids • • temporary relief of irritation and burning • • aids in protecting irritated anorectal areas Warnings For external use only When using this product • • do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • • bleeding occurs • • condition worsens or does not improve within 7 days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • • open the lid on the top of the wipes pouch • • grab the top wipe at the edge of the center fold and pull out of pouch • • close lid after each use to retain moisture • • adults : unfold wipe and cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
If necessary , repeat until all matter is removed from the area .
• • use up to 6 times daily or after each bowel movement and before applying topical hemorrhoidal treatments , and then discard • • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • • for best results , flush only one or two wipes at a time Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , anhydrous citric acid , capryl / capramidopropyl betaine , chamomilla recutita ( matricaria ) flower extract , cucumis sativus ( cucumber ) fruit extract , diazolidinyl urea , dipropylene glycol , DMDM hydantoin , edetate disodium , fragrance , glycerin , methylisothiazolinone , methylparaben , PEG - 75 shea butter glycerides , phenoxyethanol , polysorbate 20 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , sodium citrate , vitamin E acetate Questions or comments ?
Call weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM EST at 1 - 800 - 99 PrepH or 1 - 800 - 997 - 7374 For most recent product information , visit www . preparationh . com Other Uses • • for vaginal care – cleanse the area by gently wiping , patting or blotting .
Repeat as needed .
• • for use as a moist compress – if necessary , first cleanse the area as previously described .
Fold new wipe to desired size and place in contact with tissue for a soothing and cooling effect .
Leave in place for up to 15 minutes and repeat as needed .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0573 - 0559 - 10 PREPARATION H ® MEDICATED HEMORRHOIDAL WIPES WITH WITCH HAZEL FOR Women FLUSHABLE & SEPTIC SAFE infused with refreshing CUCUMBER , SOOTHING ALOE , VITAMIN E , SHEA BUTTER & CHAMOMILE PreparationH ® Medicated Wipes are made with advanced technology , have been scientifically tested to be flushable and are safe for well - maintained sewer and septic systems * .
They are made with 100 % plant - based materials and are free from chemical binders .
* Not recommended for use with basement pump systems .
Flush only one wipe at a time .
PAA113382 Front Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
