Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each 1 mL dropperful ) Triprolidine HCl 1 . 25 mg Purpose Antihistamine Uses temporarily relieves these symptoms due to hay fever ( allergic rhinitis ) or other upper respiratory allergies : • runny nose • sneezing • itching of the nose or throat • itchy , watery eyes Warnings Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • a breathing problem such as emphysema or chronic bronchitis • glaucoma Ask a doctor before use if the child is taking sedatives or tranquilizers When using this product • excitability may occur , especially in children • may cause drowsiness • sedatives and tranquilizers may increase the drowsiness effect Stop use and ask a doctor if • new symptoms occur Keep out of the reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Do not exceed recommended dosage .
• use only the enclosed dropper .
• do not use enclosed dropper for any other drug products .
AGE DOSE Adutls & Children 12 years of age or older : 2 mL ( 2 . 5 mg ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 8 mL ( 10 mg ) in 24 hours or as directed by a doctor .
Children 6 to under12 years of age : 1 mL ( 1 . 25 mg ) every 4 to 6 hours , not to exceed 4 mL ( 5 mg ) in 24 hours or as directed by a doctor .
Children under 6 years of age : Consult a docotor .
Other Information Store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Tamper evident by foil seal under cap .
Do not use if foil seal is missing or broken .
Inactive ingredients bubble gum flavor , citric acid , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate , sorbitol solution , sucralose .
Questions ?
Comments ?
Call 1 - 866 - 633 - 9033 .
Recent Major Changes The Direction section has been updated with new dosage information .
Inactive ingredients section has been updated to reflect the change in two ainactive ingredients PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 mL Bottle Carton NDC 28595 - 808 - 30 HISTEX ™ PDX Drops Antihistamine Each dropperful ( 1 mL ) contains : Triprolidine HCl 1 . 25 mg Sugar - Free • Dye Free Alcohol Free Bubble Gum Flavor 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) Bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
