BOXED WARNING WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , ( 2 . 7 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : LACTIC ACIDOSIS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension , and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
Symptoms included malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Laboratory abnormalities included elevated blood lactate levels , anion gap acidosis , increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL .
( 5 . 1 ) • Risk factors include renal impairment , concomitant use of certain drugs , age > 65 years old , radiological studies with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided in the Full Prescribing Information .
( 5 . 1 ) • If lactic acidosis is suspected , discontinue Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended .
( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets are a biguanide indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Adult Dosage • Swallow Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole and never crush , cut or chew .
• The recommended starting dose of Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal .
• Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly on the basis of glycemic control and tolerability , up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
• If glycemic control is not achieved with Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 2000 mg once daily , consider a trial of Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg twice daily .
If higher doses are required , switch to metformin hydrochloride tablets at total daily doses up to 2550 mg administered in divided daily doses , as described above .
• Patients receiving Metformin hydrochloride tablets may be switched to Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2000 mg once daily .
2 . 3 Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment • Assess renal function prior to initiation of Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and periodically thereafter .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 .
• Initiation of Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 - 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 is not recommended .
• In patients taking Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy .
• Discontinue Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if the patient ' s eGFR later falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 4 Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable .
Adult Dosage for Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets : • Swallow Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole and never crush , cut or chew ( 2 . 1 ) • Starting dose : 500 mg orally once daily with the evening meal ( 2 . 1 ) • Increase the dose in increments of 500 mg weekly , up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal ( 2 . 1 ) • Patients receiving Metformin hydrochloride tablets may be switched to Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2000 mg once daily ( 2 . 1 ) Renal Impairment • Prior to initiation , assess renal function with estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) ( 2 . 3 ) o Do not use in patients with eGFR below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 ( 2 . 3 ) o Initiation is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 - 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 ( 2 . 3 ) o Assess risk / benefit of continuing if eGFR falls below 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 ( 2 . 3 ) o Discontinue if eGFR falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m 2 ( 2 . 3 ) Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures : • Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may need to be discontinued at time of , or prior to , iodinated contrast imaging procedures ( 2 . 4 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is available as : • 500 mg white to off - white color , round , biconvex tablet having ‘ B115 ’ on one side and plain on the other .
• 750 mg white to off - white color , capsule shape , biconvex tablet having ‘ B116 ’ on one side and plain on the other .
• Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets : 500 mg and 750 mg 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with : • Severe Renal Impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to metformin .
• Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
• Severe renal impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ) ( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to metformin ( 4 ) • Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis There have been postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / L ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate : pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels were generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and , if these symptoms occur , instruct them to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : • Renal impairment — The postmarketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patients renal function include [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] : o Before initiating metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) .
o Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
o Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 .
o Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
In patients at risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
o In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
• Drug interactions — The concomitant use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere wit acid - base balance , or increase metformin accumulation .
Consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
• Age 65 or greater — The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ' s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients .
• Radiologic studies with contrast — Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable .
• Surgery and other procedures — Withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension , and renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
• Hypoxic states — Several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may cause prerenal azotemia .
When such an event occurs , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Excessive alcohol intake — Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients should be warned against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Hepatic impairment — Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
5 . 2 Vitamin B 12 Deficiency In metformin hydrochloride tablets clinical trials of 29 - week duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B 12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B 12 absorption from the B 12 - intrinsic factor complex , may be associated with anemia but appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride tablets or vitamin B 12 supplementation .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B 12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B 12 levels .
Measure hematologic parameters on an annual basis and vitamin B 12 at 2 to 3 year intervals in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and manage any abnormalities [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues Insulin and insulin secretagogues ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) are known to cause hypoglycemia .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue .
Therefore , a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 4 Macrovascular Outcomes There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Lactic Acidosis : See boxed warning .
( 5 . 1 ) • Vitamin B 12 Deficiency : Metformin may lower vitamin B12 levels .
Measure hematological parameters annually and vitamin B 12 at 2 to 3 year intervals and manage any abnormalities .
( 5 . 2 ) • Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues : Increased risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with insulin and / or an insulin secretagogue .
Lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required ( 5 . 3 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are also discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Lactic Acidosis [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Vitamin B12 Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Hypoglycemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets In a U . S . clinical trial of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , a total of 141 patients received Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets up to 2550 mg per day .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets treated patients and that were more common than in placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions from a Clinical Trial of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Occurring > 5 % and More Common than Placebo in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) Diarrhea 53 % 12 % Nausea / Vomiting 26 % 12 % Flatulence 12 % 6 % Asthenia 9 % 6 % Indigestion 7 % 4 % Abdominal Discomfort 6 % 5 % Headache 6 % 5 % Diarrhea led to discontinuation of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in 6 % of patients .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 % to ≤ 5 % of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets treated patients and were more commonly reported with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets than placebo : abnormal stools , hypoglycemia , myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , palpitation .
In Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets clinical trials of 29 - week duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Pediatric Patients In clinical trials with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , the profile of adverse reactions was similar to that observed in adults .
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets In placebo - controlled trials , 781 patients were administered metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets patients , and that were more common in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets - than placebo - treated patients , are listed in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Occurring > 5 % and More Common than Placebo in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( n = 781 ) Placebo ( n = 195 ) Diarrhea 10 % 3 % Nausea / Vomiting 7 % 2 % Diarrhea led to discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in 0 . 6 % of patients .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in 1 . 0 % to 5 . 0 % of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tabletspatients and were more commonly reported with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets than placebo : abdominal pain , constipation , distention abdomen , dyspepsia / heartburn , flatulence , dizziness , headache , upper respiratory infection , taste disturbance .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of metformin .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cholestatic , hepatocellular , and mixed hepatocellular liver injury have been reported with postmarketing use of metformin .
For Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the most common adverse reactions ( > 5 . 0 % ) are diarrhea , nausea / vomiting , flatulence , asthenia , indigestion , abdominal discomfort , and headache .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc at 877 - 372 - 6093 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 3 presents clinically significant drug interactions with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Table 3 : Clinically Significant Drug Interactions with Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors Clinical Impact : Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Intervention : Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Examples : Topiramate , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide .
Drugs that Reduce Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Clearance Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Examples : Ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine .
Alcohol Clinical Impact : Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Intervention : Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Insulin Secretagogues or Insulin Clinical Impact : Coadministration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with an insulin secretagogue ( e . g . , sulfonylurea ) or insulin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia .
Intervention : Patients receiving an insulin secretagogue or insulin may require lower doses of the insulin secretagogue or insulin .
Drugs Affecting Glycemic Control Clinical Impact : Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
Intervention : When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , observe the patient closely for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , observe the patient closely for hypoglycemia .
Examples : Thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blockers , and isoniazid .
• Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may increase risk of lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring ( 7 ) • Drugs that reduce metformin clearance ( such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) may increase the accumulation of metformin .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use ( 7 ) • Alcohol can potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Females and Males of Reproductive Potential : Advise premenopausal females of the potential for an unintended pregnancy .
( 8 . 3 ) • Geriatric Use : Assess renal function more frequently .
( 8 . 5 ) • Hepatic Impairment : Avoid use in patients with hepatic impairment .
( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Limited data with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pregnant women are not sufficient to determine a drug - associated risk for major birth defects or miscarriage .
Published studies with metformin use during pregnancy have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defect or miscarriage risk [ see Data ] .
There are risks to the mother and fetus associated with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus in pregnancy [ see Clinical Considerations ] .
No adverse developmental effects were observed when metformin was administered to pregnant Sprague Dawley rats and rabbits during the period of organogenesis at doses up to 2 - and 5 - times , respectively , a 2550 mg clinical dose , based on body surface area [ see Data ] .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects is 6 to 10 % in women with pre - gestational diabetes mellitus with an HbA1C > 7 and has been reported to be as high as 20 to 25 % in women with a HbA1C > 10 .
The estimated background risk of miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Poorly - controlled diabetes mellitus in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis , pre - eclampsia , spontaneous abortions , preterm delivery , stillbirth and delivery complications .
Poorly controlled diabetes mellitus increases the fetal risk for major birth defects , stillbirth , and macrosomia related morbidity .
Data Human Data Published data from post - marketing studies have not reported a clear association with metformin and major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes when metformin was used during pregnancy .
However , these studies cannot definitely establish the absence of any metformin - associated risk because of methodological limitations , including small sample size and inconsistent comparator groups .
Animal Data Metformin hydrochloride did not adversely affect development outcomes when administered to pregnant rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about 2 and 5 times a 2550 mg clinical dose based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Limited published studies report that metformin is present in human milk [ see Data ] .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of metformin on the breastfed infant and no available information on the effects of metformin on milk production .
Therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Published clinical lactation studies report that metformin is present in human milk which resulted in infant doses approximately 0 . 11 % to 1 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 0 . 13 and 1 .
However , the studies were not designed to definitely establish the risk of use of metformin during lactation because of small sample size and limited adverse event data collected in infants .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Discuss the potential for unintended pregnancy with premenopausal women as therapy with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may result in ovulation in some anovulatory women .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tabletsin pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in severe renal impairment , patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m 2 [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment Use of metformin in patients with hepatic impairment has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not recommended in patients with hepatic impairment .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
11 DESCRIPTION Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP contain the antihyperglycemic agent metformin , which is a biguanide , in the form of monohydrochloride .
The chemical name of metformin hydrochloride is N , N - dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride .
The structural formula is as shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white crystalline compound with a molecular formula of C 4 H 11 N 5 .
HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 62 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water , slightly soluble in ethanol , practically insoluble in acetone and in methylene chloride .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 35 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets USP , contains 500 mg or 750 mg of metformin hydrochloride , which is equivalent to 389 . 93 mg , 584 . 90 mg metformin base , respectively .
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets , USP 500 mg and 750 mg contain the inactive ingredients hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
System Components and Performance - Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets comprises a dual hydrophilic polymer matrix system .
Metformin hydrochloride is combined with a drug release controlling polymers to form a monophasic matrix system .
After administration , fluid from the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract enters the tablet , causing the polymers to hydrate and swell .
Drug is released slowly from the dosage form by a process of diffusion through the gel matrix that is essentially independent of pH . The hydrated polymer system is not rigid and is expected to be broken up by normal peristalsis in the GI tract .
The biologically inert components of the tablet may occasionally remain intact during GI transit and will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
Dissolution Method : Test 24 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may decrease .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single oral dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , C max is achieved with a median value of 7 hours and a range of 4 to 8 hours .
Peak plasma levels are approximately 20 % lower compared to the same dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , however , the extent of absorption ( as measured by AUC ) is comparable to metformin hydrochloride tablets .
At steady state , the AUC and C max are less than dose proportional for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets within the range of 500 to 2000 mg administered once daily .
Peak plasma levels are approximately 0 . 6 , 1 . 1 , 1 . 4 and 1 . 8 mcg / mL for 500 , 1000 , 1500 , and 2000 mg once - daily doses , respectively .
The extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at a 2000 mg once - daily dose is similar to the same total daily dose administered as metformin hydrochloride tablets 1000 mg twice daily .
After repeated administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , metformin did not accumulate in plasma .
Effect of food : Food decreases the extent of absorption and slightly delays the absorption of metformin , as shown by approximately a 40 % lower mean peak plasma concentration ( C max ) , a 25 % lower area under the plasma concentration versus time curve ( AUC ) , and a 35 - minute prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration ( T max ) following administration of a single 850 mg tablet of metformin hydrochloride tablets with food , compared to the same tablet strength administered fasting .
Although the extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet increased by approximately 50 % when given with food , there was no effect of food on C max and T max of metformin .
Both high and low fat meals had the same effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride tablets 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
Metabolism Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Elimination Renal clearance ( see Table 4 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Specific Populations Renal Impairment In patients with decreased renal function the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased ( see Table 3 ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment No pharmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and C max is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
It appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 4 ) .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Table 4 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration cTime to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 to 59 years ) eKinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting fElderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 to 81 years ) g CL cr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m 2 Subject Groups : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets dose a ( number of subjects ) C maxb ( mcg / mL ) T maxc ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderly f , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CLcr g 61 to 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CLcr 31 to 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CLcr 10 to 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) Pediatrics After administration of a single oral Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg with food , geometric mean metformin Cmax and AUC differed less than 5 % between pediatric type 2 diabetic patients ( 12 - 16 years of age ) and gender - and weight - matched healthy adults ( 20 - 45 years of age ) , all with normal renal function .
Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
Drug Interactions In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Drug Interactions In Vivo Assessment of Drug Interactions Table 5 : Effect of Coadministered Drug on Plasma Metformin Systemic Exposure * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses † AUC = AUC ( INF ) ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means § At steady state with topiramate 100 mg every 12 hours and metformin 500 mg every 12 hours ; AUC = AUC 0 - 12 h Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without coadministered drug ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC † C max No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 850 mg metformin 0 . 91 ‡ 0 . 93 ‡ Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 09 ‡ 1 . 22 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 16 1 . 21 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg metformin 0 . 90 0 . 94 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 05 ‡ 1 . 07 ‡ Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion may reduce metformin elimination [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) . ]
Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg metformin 1 . 40 1 . 61 Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause metabolic acidosis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) . ]
Topiramate 100 mg § 500 mg § metformin 1 . 25 § 1 . 17 Table 6 : Effect of Metformin on Coadministered Drug Systemic Exposure Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug * Dose of Metformin * Geometric Mean Ratio ( ratio with / without metformin ) No Effect = 1 . 00 AUC + C max No dosing adjustments required for the following : Glyburide 5 mg 850 mg glyburide 0 . 78 ‡ 0 . 63 ‡ Furosemide 40 mg 850 mg furosemide 0 . 87 ‡ 0 . 69 ‡ Nifedipine 10 mg 850 mg nifedipine 1 . 10 § 1 . 08 Propranolol 40 mg 850 mg propranolol 1 . 01 § 1 . 02 Ibuprofen 400 mg 850 mg ibuprofen 0 . 97 ¶ 1 . 01 ¶ Cimetidine 400 mg 850 mg cimetidine 0 . 95 § 1 . 01 * All metformin and coadministered drugs were given as single doses + AUC = AUC ( INF ) unless otherwise noted ‡ Ratio of arithmetic means , p - value of difference < 0 . 05 § AUC ( 0 - 24 hr ) reported ¶ Ratio of arithmetic means 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis & Mutagenesis & Impairment Of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2550 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2550 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Metformin Hydrochloride TabletsAdult Clinical Studies A double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter US clinical trial involving obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus whose hyperglycemia was not adequately controlled with dietary management alone ( baseline fasting plasma glucose [ FPG ] of approximately 240 mg / dL ) was conducted .
Patients were treated with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( up to 2550 mg / day ) or placebo for 29 weeks .
The results are presented in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Mean Change in Fasting Plasma Glucose and HbA1c at Week 29 Comparing Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets vs Placebo in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) p - Value FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT 241 . 5 53 . 0 237 . 7 6 . 3 NS * 0 . 001 Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT 8 . 4 1 . 4 8 . 2 0 . 4 NS * 0 . 001 * Not statistically significant Mean baseline body weight was 201 lbs and 206 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and placebo arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 29 was - 1 . 4 lbs and - 2 . 4 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and placebo arms , respectively .
A 29 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and glyburide , alone and in combination , was conducted in obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who had failed to achieve adequate glycemic control while on maximum doses of glyburide ( baseline FPG of approximately 250 mg / dL ) .
Patients randomized to the combination arm started therapy with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg .
At the end of each week of the first 4 weeks of the trial , these patients had their dosages of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets increased by 500 mg if they had failed to reach target fasting plasma glucose .
After week 4 , such dosage adjustments were made monthly , although no patient was allowed to exceed Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 2500 mg .
Patients in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets only arm ( metformin plus placebo ) discontinued glyburide and followed the same titration schedule .
Patients in the glyburide arm continued the same dose of glyburide .
At the end of the trial , approximately 70 % of the patients in the combination group were taking Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 2000 mg / glyburide 20 mg or Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 2500 mg / glyburide 20 mg .
Mean baseline body weight was 202 lbs , 203 lbs , and 204 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / glyburide , glyburide , and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 29 was 0 . 9 lbs , - 0 . 7 lbs , and - 8 . 4 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets / glyburide , glyburide , and Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets arms , respectively Pediatric Clinical Studies A double - blind , placebo - controlled study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 16 years with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( mean FPG 182 . 2 mg / dL ) , treatment with Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( up to 2000 mg / day ) for up to 16 weeks ( mean duration of treatment 11 weeks ) was conducted .
The results are displayed in Table 9 .
Table 9 : Mean Change in Fasting Plasma Glucose at Week 16 Comparing Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets vs Placebo in Pediatric Patientsa with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Placebo p - Value FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT ( n = 37 ) 162 . 4 42 . 9 ( n = 36 ) 192 . 3 21 . 4 < 0 . 001 a Pediatric patients mean age 13 . 8 years ( range 10 - 16 years ) Mean baseline body weight was 205 lbs and 189 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and placebo arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 16 was - 3 . 3 lbs and - 2 . 0 lbs in the Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets and placebo arms , respectively .
14 . 2 Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise .
Patients entering the study had a mean baseline HbA1c of 8 . 0 % and a mean baseline FPG of 176 mg / dL .
The treatment dose was increased to 1500 mg once daily if at Week 12 HbA1c was 7 . 0 % but < 8 . 0 % ( patients with HbA1c 8 . 0 % were discontinued from the study ) .
At the final visit ( 24 - week ) , mean HbA1c had increased 0 . 2 % from baseline in placebo patients and decreased 0 . 6 % with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
A 16 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled , dose - response study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal or twice daily with meals , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise .
The results are shown in Table 10 .
Table 10 : Mean Changes from Baseline * in HbA1c and Fasting Plasma Glucose at Week 16 Comparing Metformin Extended - Release Tablets vs Placebo in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus aAll comparisons versus Placebo Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets Placebo 500 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily 2000 mg Once Daily 1000 mg Twice Daily Hemoglobin A 1 c ( % ) ( n = 115 ) ( n = 115 ) ( n = 111 ) ( n = 125 ) ( n = 112 ) ( n = 111 ) Baseline 8 . 2 8 . 4 8 . 3 8 . 4 8 . 4 8 . 4 Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 4 0 . 6 0 . 9 0 . 8 1 . 1 0 . 1 p - value a < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 126 ) ( n = 118 ) ( n = 120 ) ( n = 132 ) ( n = 122 ) ( n = 113 ) Baseline 182 . 7 183 . 7 178 . 9 181 . 0 181 . 6 179 . 6 Change at FINAL VISIT 15 . 2 19 . 3 28 . 5 29 . 9 33 . 6 7 . 6 p - value a < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 < 0 . 001 Mean baseline body weight was 193 lbs , 192 lbs , 188 lbs , 196 lbs , 193 lbs and 194 lbs in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 500 mg , 1000 mg , 1500 mg , and 2000 mg once daily , 1000 mg twice daily and placebo arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 16 was - 1 . 3 lbs , 1 . 3 lbs , - 0 . 7 lbs , - 1 . 5 lbs , - 2 . 2 lbs and - 1 . 8 lbs , respectively .
A 24 - week , double - blind , randomized study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , and metformin hydrochloride tablets , taken twice daily ( with breakfast and evening meal ) , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who had been treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg twice daily for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry .
The results are shown in Table 11 .
Table 11 : Mean Changes from Baseline * in HbA1c and Fasting Plasma Glucose at Week 24 Comparing Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tabletsvs Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily Metformin Hydrochloride Extended – Release tablets 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily Hemoglobin A 1 c ( % ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT ( 95 % CI ) ( n = 67 ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 66 ) 7 . 06 6 . 99 7 . 02 0 . 14 a ( – 0 . 04 , 0 . 31 ) 0 . 27 ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 43 ) 0 . 13 ( – 0 . 02 , 0 . 28 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT ( 95 % CI ) ( n = 69 ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 70 ) 127 . 2 131 . 0 131 . 4 14 . 0 ( 7 . 0 , 21 . 0 ) 11 . 5 ( 4 . 4 , 18 . 6 ) 7 . 6 ( 1 . 0 , 14 . 2 ) † a n = 68 Mean baseline body weight was 210 lbs , 203 lbs and 193 lbs in the metforminhydrochloride tablets 500 mg twice daily , and metforminhydrochloride extended - release tablets1000 mg and 1500 mg once daily arms , respectively .
Mean change in body weight from baseline to week 24 was 0 . 9 lbs , 1 . 1 lbs and 0 . 9 lbs , respectively .
HOW SUPPLIED Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release TabletsUSP are available as follows : Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets USP , 500 mg are white to off - white color , round , biconvex tablet , having B115 on one side and plain on the other .
500 mg Bottles of 90 NDC 72789 - 105 - 90 500 mg Bottles of 100 NDC 72789 - 105 - 01 500 mg Bottles of 180 NDC 72789 - 105 - 93 500 mg Bottles of 500 NDC 72789 - 105 - 82 500 mg Bottles of 1000 NDC 72789 - 105 - 95 Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets USP , 750 mg are white to off - white color , capsule shape , biconvex tablet , having B116 on one side and plain on the other .
750 mg Bottles of 90 NDC 72789 - 106 - 90 750 mg Bottles of 100 NDC 72789 - 106 - 01 750 mg Bottles of 180 NDC 72789 - 106 - 93 750 mg Bottles of 500 NDC 72789 - 106 - 82 750 mg Bottles of 1000 NDC 72789 - 106 - 95 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Lactic Acidosis : Explain the risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development .
Advise patients to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately and to promptly notify their healthcare provider if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgias , malaise , unusual somnolence or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Counsel patients against excessive alcohol intake and inform patients about importance of regular testing of renal function while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation may be required [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypoglycemia Inform patients that hypoglycemia may occur when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are coadministered with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
Explain to patients receiving concomitant therapy the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Vitamin B12 Deficiency : Inform patients about importance of regular hematological parameters while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Females of Reproductive Age : Inform females that treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women which may lead to unintended pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 3 ) ] .
Administration Information : Inform patients that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed , cut , or chewed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet .
Manufactured by : Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
126 , Kathaldia , Tongi , Gazipur , 1711 , Bangladesh .
Manufactured for : Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
4110 Regal Oaks Drive , P . O . Box 1060 , Suwanee , GA 30024 , USA .
Distributed by : Bayshore Pharmaceuticals LLC Short Hills , NJ 07078 Revised : July 2021 3020008845 SPL PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT SECTION PATIENT INFORMATION Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , 500 mg and 750 mg ( met - FOR - min HYE - droe - KLOR - ide ) Read the Patient Information that comes with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extendedrelease tablets ?
Serious side effects can happen in people taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , including : Lactic Acidosis .
Metformin hydrochloride , the medicine in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , can cause a rare , but serious , side effect called lactic acidosis ( a build - up of lactic acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in a hospital .
Stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the following symptoms of lactic acidosis : • feel very weak and tired • have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • have trouble breathing • have unusual sleepiness or sleep longer than usual • have unexplained stomach or intestinal problems with nausea and vomiting , or diarrhea • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • feel dizzy or lightheaded • have a slow or irregular heartbeat You have a higher chance of getting lactic acidosis if you : • have kidney problems .
People whose kidneys are not working properly should not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• have liver problems .
• have congestive heart failure that requires treatment with medicines .
• drink a lot of alcohol ( very often or short - term “ binge ” drinking ) .
• get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids .
• have certain x - ray tests with injectable dyes or contrast agents .
• have surgery .
• have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke .
• are 80 years of age or older and have not had your kidney function tested .
What are metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are prescription medicines that contain metformin hydrochloride .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are used with diet and exercise to help control high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) in adults with type 2 diabetes .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for people with type 1 diabetes .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are not for people with diabetic ketoacidosis ( increased ketones in your blood or urine ) .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have the same active ingredient .
However , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works longer in your body .
Both of these medicines help control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not cause your body to make more insulin .
Who should not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Some conditions increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis , or cause other problems if you take either of these medicines .
Most of the conditions listed below can increase your chance of getting lactic acidosis .
Do not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • have kidney problems • are allergic to the metformin hydrochloride in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any of the ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• are going to get an injection of dye or contrast agents for an x - ray procedure or if you are going to have surgery and not able to eat or drink much .
In these situations , metformin hydrochloride extendedrelease tablets will need to be stopped for a short time .
Talk to your healthcare provider about when you should stop metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and when you should start metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets again .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets " ?
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking metformin hydrochloride extendedrelease tablet ?
Before taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have type 1 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used to treat people with type 1 diabetes .
• have a history or risk for diabetic ketoacidosis ( high levels of certain acids , known as ketones , in the blood or urine ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis .
• have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have heart problems , including congestive heart failure .
• are older than 80 years .
If you are over 80 years old you should not take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets unless your kidneys have been checked and they are normal .
• drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term “ binge ” drinking .
• are taking insulin .
• have any other medical conditions .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets will harm your unborn baby .
If you are pregnant , talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant • are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
It is not known if metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets passes into your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby while you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works .
Can metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets be used in children ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets has not been studied in children .
How should I take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets exactly as your healthcare provider tells you .
• Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be taken with meals to help lessen an upset stomach side effect .
• Swallow metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whole .
Do not crush , cut , or chew metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• You may sometimes pass a soft mass in your stools ( bowel movement ) that looks like metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This is not harmful and will not affect the way metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works to control your diabetes .
• When your body is under some types of stress , such as fever , trauma ( such as a car accident ) , infection , or surgery , the amount of diabetes medicine that you need may change .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these problems .
• Your healthcare provider should do blood tests to check how well your kidneys are working before and during your treatment with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Your healthcare provider will check your diabetes with regular blood tests , including your blood sugar levels and your hemoglobin A1C .
• Follow your healthcare provider ' s instructions for treating blood sugar that is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
See " What are the possible side side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ? ”
• Check your blood sugar as your healthcare provider tells you to .
• Stay on your prescribed diet and exercise program while taking metformin hydrochloride extendedrelease tablets .
• If you miss a dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , take your next dose as prescribed unless your healthcare provider tells you differently .
Do not take an extra dose the next day .
• If you take too much metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , call your healthcare provider , local Poison Control Center , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Lactic acidosis .
Metformin , the active ingredient in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of an acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms , which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • you feel cold in your hands or feet • you feel dizzy or lightheaded • you have a slow or irregular heartbeat • you feel very weak or tired • you have trouble breathing • you feel sleepy or drowsy • you have stomach pains , nausea or vomiting Most people who have had lactic acidosis with metformin have other things that , combined with the metformin , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , if you : • have severe kidney problems , or your kidneys are affected by certain x – ray tests that use injectable dye • have liver problems • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term “ binge ” drinking • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea . Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids • have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke Common side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ' ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol , or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
How should I store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Store metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the use of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
What are the ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Active ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets : metformin hydrochloride .
Inactive ingredients in each tablet of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablet 500 mg : hypromellose , magnesium stearate , and polyvinyl pyrrolidone .
Inactive ingredients in each tablet of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - release Tablets 500 mg and 750 mg : sodium carboxymethyl cellulose , hypromellose , povidone , microcrystalline cellulose , and magnesium stearate .
What is type 2 diabetes ?
Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which your body does not make enough insulin , and the insulin that your body produces does not work as well as it should .
Your body can also make too much sugar .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , and by certain medicines when necessary .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how to prevent , recognize , and take care of low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) , high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and problems you have because of your diabetes .
Manufactured by : Beximco Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
126 , Kathaldia , Tongi , Gazipur , 1711 , Bangladesh .
Manufactured for : Beximco Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
4110 Regal Oaks Drive , P . O . Box 1060 , Suwanee , GA 30024 , USA .
Distributed by : Bayshore Pharmaceuticals LLC Short Hills , NJ 07078 Revised : July 2021 3020008845 Principal Display Pannel Metformin ER ( metformin HCl ) Extended - release Tablets 500 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin ER ( metformin HCl ) Extended - release Tablets 750 mg Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
