DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Uses temporary relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation and rashes due to : ● eczema ● seborrheic dermatitis ● psoriasis ● insect bites ● poison ivy , oak , sumac ● soaps ● detergents ● cosmetics ● jewelry ● external genital and anal itching Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings ● for external use only ● avoid contact with the eyes ● do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator ● Stop using this product and ask a doctor ● in case of bleeding ● if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days ● before you begin using any other hydrocortisone product Do not use this product and ask a doctor ● if you have a vaginal discharge ● before treating diaper rash ● before using on children under 2 years of age For External Anal Itching Users : ● do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor ● in case of bleeding , consult a doctor promptly ● do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator ● children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep this carton .
It contains important information .
Directions ● when practical , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
● gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying .
● adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
● children under 12 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , ethylparaben , glycerin , glycerol monostearate , hexadecanol , mineral water , octadecanol , petrolatum , purified water , sodium dodecyl sulfate Other information ● to open : unscrew cap and pull tab to remove foil seal ● if seal has been broken , do not use this product .
Return product to the Store where you bought it ● store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Distributed by : Trifecta Pharmaceuticals USA ™ 101 NE Third Avenue , Suite 1500 Ft . Lauderdale , FL 33301 USA Product of PRC www . trifecta - pharma . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
