Drug Facts Active Ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Keep out of Reach of Children If Swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritataions , inflammation and rashes due to • Eczema • Insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • sunburn • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For External Use Only Do not use • In the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
When using this Product • Avoid contact with the eyes .
• Do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor .
• Do not put directly into rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop Using this product and ask a doctor if • Conditions worsen • Symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor .
• Rectal bleeding occurs .
Directions For itching or skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes .
Adults and children 2 years and older • Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • ask a doctor .
For External and Anal Itching • Adults : When practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • • Children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other Information Store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive Ingredients Aloe Barbadensis leaf juice , cetyl alcohol , Dimethicone , EDTA , Ethylparaben , Ginger Oil , Glycerin , Glyceryl stearate , Maltodextrin , Methyl gluceth - 20 , Methylparaben , Methylpentadecane , petrolatum , 2 - Phenoxyethyl alcohol , Polysorbate 80 , Propylene glycol , purified water , Stearic acid , Trisodium citrate dihydrate , Vitamin E . Questions Call 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS Other Information This product is not manufactured or distributed by Chattem Inc . distributor of Cortizone - 10 ® Distributed By : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI .
02895 Product of China V - 36756 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
