DRUG FACTS Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - Itch Uses temporary relieves external anal itching .
temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations and rashes other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor When Using this Product Avoid Contact with eyes do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor do not put into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Warnings for external use only Directions ● Adults when practical , cleanse the affected area by patting or blotting with an appropriate cleansing wipe .
● gently dry by patting or blotting with a tissue or soft cloth before application of this product .
● adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply to the affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
● children under 12 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor .
Inactive ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , ethylparaben , glycerin , glycerol monostearate , hexadecanol , mineral water , octadecanol , petrolatum , purified water , sodium dodecyl sulfate Other information ● store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Keep out of Reach of Children If swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Stop Use and Ask a Doctor if bleeding occurs condition worsens symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
Qustions or Comments Call 1 800 296 - 9067 Do Not Use Do not use for the treatment of Diaper Rash .
Consult Doctor .
Other Information Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2020 CVS Pharmacy CVS . com 1 800 Shop CVS Made in China V - 36582 This product is not manufactured or distributed by Pfizer , distributor of Preparation H Anti - itch Cream .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
