Active ingredient Clotrimazole USP 1 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Cream Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Uses Cures athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) , jock itch ( tinea cruris ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) .
Relieves the itching , burning , cracking , scaling and discomfort which can accompany these conditions .
Warnings ● Do not use on children under 2 years of age except under the advice of a doctor .
● For external use only ● When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop Use and ask a Doctor if : • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks ( for Athlete ' s foot or ringwork ) or within 2 weeks ( for jock itch ) .
If Pregnant or breastfeeding If Pregnant or breastfeeding , ask a health professional before use .
Directions • Wash the affected area and dry thoroughly .
● Apply a thin layer of this product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) , or as directed by a doctor .
● Supervise children in the use of this product .
● For athlete ’ s foot , pay special attention to the spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
● For athlete ’ s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
For jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
● If conditions persists longer , consult a doctor .
● This product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Inactive Ingredients Dimethyl Sulfoxide , Ethylparaben , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate SE , Laureth - 23 , Light Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Stearyl Alcohol , Water Other Information • store at controlled room temperature 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) • Close cap tightly after use .
Questions or Comments ?
Call 1 - 888 - 296 - 9067 Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM DISTRIBUTED BY : MIDWOOD BRANDS , LLC .
500 Volvo Parkway , Chesapeake , VA . 23320 NOT SATISFIED ?
Return Package and unused product within 30 days to any Family Dollar store for a refund ( with receipt ) or exchange .
This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , owner of the registered trademark Lotrimin ® Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
