Active Ingredients Section Active Ingredients Purpose Non - Nano uncoated Zinc Oxide , 17 % Sunscreen Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directred with other sunprotection measures ( See Directions ) .
Decrease the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings Warnings : • For external use only • Do not use on damage or broken skin • When using the product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
• Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children , If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use Do not use on damage or broken skin When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of Children Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact Directions Directions • Shake well • Apply Liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : • After 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • Immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad specfgtrum of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , espcially from 10 : 00 am - 2 : 00 pm .
• Wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
• Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Inactive Ingredients Water , Caprylic / Capric Triglycerides , C13 - 15 Alkane , Caproyl Glycerin / Sebacic Acid Copolymer , Stearalkonium Hectorite , Polyglyceryl - 3 Diisostearate , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polyricinoleate , Daucus Carota Sativa Seed Oil , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Phenylpropanol , Glycerin , Magnesium Sulfate , Propanediol , Caprylyl Glycol , Panthenol , Pongamia Pinnata seed Extract , Mauritia Flexousa Fruit Oil , Kunzea Pomifera Fruit Extract , Syzygium Luehmannii Fruit Extract , Tasmannia Lanceolata Fruit Extract , Tocophderol .
Other Information Other Information • Protecrt this product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun LESSE EVERY TONE SPF 30 Broad Spectrum Mineral Facial Sunscreen Zinc Oxide & Australian Super Berries Creme Solaire Minerale a Large Spectre SPF 30 Contro Elementi Quotidiani Mineralischer Breitband - Sonnenschutz Solcreme | Minerale Zonnebrandcreme Oxyde de zinc et plantes reparatrices Principal Display Panel Front of Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
