Drug Facts Active ingredients Minoxidil 5 % w / w ( without propellant ) Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use • to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of this carton ) Warnings For external use only .
For use by men only .
Extremely Flammable : Avoid fire , flame , or smoking during and immediately following application .
Do not use if • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil Topical Aerosol , 5 % ( Foam ) is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking any other drugs When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day useage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • apply half a capful 2 times a day to the scalp in the hair loss area • massage into scalp with fingers , then wash hands well • see enclosed leaflet for complete directions on how to use • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth or hair loss will begin again .
Other information • hair growth has been shown in a clincial study of men ( mostly white ) aged 18 - 49 years who used it for 4 months • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on package and enclosed leaflet • keep the package .
It contains important information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • contents under presure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) Inactive ingredients butane , butylated hydroxytoluene , cetyl alcohol , citric acid , dehydrated alcohol .
isobutane , lactic acid , polysorbate 60 , propane , purified water , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
1 - 800 - 723 - 9569 DIST .
BY PROCTER & GAMBLE CINCINNATI OH 45202 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Head & Shoulders SCALP X MINOXIDIL TOPICAL AEROSOL , 5 % ( FOAM ) HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT FOR MEN CLINICALLY PROVEN TO HELP REGROW HAIR Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Once - a - day foam for women Six month supply Unscented 3 CANS - 2 . 11 OZ ( 60 g ) EACH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
