Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and jock itch ( tinea cruris ) • can prevent recurrence of most athlete ' s foot • relieves symptoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning , cracking and chafing associated with jock itch Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents cans be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • do not get into eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot , ringworm and 2 weeks for jock itch Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks for athletes foot , ringworm and for jock itch use daily for 2 weeks • if conditions persist , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply daily once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalps or nails • in case of clogging , clear nozzle under running water Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredient BHT , isobutane ( propellent ) , PPG - 12 - buteth - 16 , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 14 % w / w ) , talc Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Principal Display Panel Exchange Select Athlete ' s Foot Antifungal tolnaftate 1 % • Cures & Prevents Most Athlete ' s Foot • Relieves Itching & Burning Powder Spray NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
