Composition Each 1 g contains : Erythromycin base 40 mg .
Excipients : Ethanol 99 . 9 % , Hydroxypropyl cellulose , Butylated hydroxytoluene .
Properties Erythromycin which belongs to a class of chemicals called macrolide antibiotics ; exerts its antibacterial action by binding to the 50 S ribosomal subunit of susceptible bacteria and suppressing protein synthesis .
Erythromycin is usually bacteriostatic but may be bactericidal in high concentrations or against highly susceptible organisms .
Indications Spotex is indicated for the treatment of Acne Vulgaris , Acne appears as blackheads and whiteheads which people often refer to as pimples or spots .
Spotex attacks the bacteria that are one of the main causes of acne .
The name of these bacteria is Propionibacterium acnes Contraindications Spotex is contraindicated if you are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to Erythromycin or any of the other ingredients of Spotex .
An allergic reaction may include a rash or itching .
Precautions If you use Spotex on your face don t get it in your eyes , nose / nostrils , mouth , or on your lips .
If you do , wash the area with large amount of warm water .
And do not use Spotex on areas where you have cuts or scrapes .
Excessive exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet rays ( sun lamps ) should be avoided during treatment with Spotex because the additional irradiation may lead to a more intense action .
If sunburn occurs , it is advisable to interrupt therapy until the severe erythema and peeling subside .
Patients whose occupations require considerable exposure to the sun should exercise particular caution .
Pregnancy Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine .
Lactation Do not apply Spotex on your chest if you are breast feeding .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine .
Drug Interactions Do not use Spotex with any other acne products that are used on the skin unless your doctor or pharmacist has told you that you can .
While you are using Spotex , do not use skin cleansers that remove dead skin ( these are called exfoliants ) , medicated soaps or cosmetics containing alcohol .
These could make your skin irritated or dry .
Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines , including medicines obtained without a prescription .
Warnings Topical gels and creams are intended for external use only and should be kept away from eyes , nose , mouth , and other mucous membranes because of its irritant effect .
Do not apply to eyelids or to the skin at the corners of the eyes and mouth .
Avoid the angles of the nose and nasolabial fold ( if treatment in these areas ; is necessary , apply very sparingly ) .
Topical use may induce severe local erythema and peeling at the site of application .
If the degree of local irritation warrants , patients should be directed to use the medication less frequently , discontinue use temporarily or discontinue use altogether .
Dosage and Administration Use Spotex once in the morning and once in the evening , unless your doctor or pharmacist has told you otherwise .
Wash the affected areas with water or with a mild cleanser , and then thoroughly dry the affected areas and gently apply on a thin film of Spotex using the tips of your fingers .
Do n't forget to wash your hands afterwards .
The alcohol quickly evaporates and erythrornycin penetrates into your skin without leaving an unpleasant film , after you have used Spotex ; screw the cap tightly on the tube .
How long you will have to use Spotex will depend on how quickly your acne improves .
You may well use Spotex Gel for one month and then a lower strength product for one more month .
Your doctor will decide which strength to prescribe for you .
It is recommended to use sunscreens over treated areas before sun exposure .
Overdosage Do not put too much Spotex on your skin .
You will not get rid of the acne any quicker .
If you put on too much , your skin may become irritated and red .
Some peeling or discomfort could also occur .
If any of these happen , use Spotex once a day in the evening until they have gone .
Then apply Spotex twice a day as you did previously .
If the effects continue or are causing you a lot of discomfort , stop using the product and ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice .
In the rare event that you accidentally swallow any of this product , seek medical advice .
Side Effects Like all medicines Spotex can cause side effects , although not everybody gets them .
These might include dryness , itching , redness , peeling or oiliness .
You might feel a stinging or burning sensation when you put it on your skin .
Usually the effects are not serious and happen at the start of treatment .
More often than not , they go away as you continue to use the gel .
If any of the side effects gets serious , or if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet , please tell your doctor or pharmacist .
Storage Store below 25 ° C . How supplied 30 g packs .
THIS IS A MEDICAMENT • Medicament is a product which affects your health and its consumption contrary to instructions is dangerous for you .
• Strictly follow the doctor ' s prescription , the method of use and the instruction of the pharmacist who sold the medicament .
• The doctor and the pharmacist are experts in medicine , its benefits and risks .
• Do not by yourself interrupt the period of treatment prescribed for you .
• Do not repeat the same prescription without consulting your doctor .
• Keep medicament out of reach of children Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
