Composition Each 1 g contains : Hydrocortisone 17 - Butyrate 1 mg .
Excipients : Petrolatum , Cetearyl Alcohol , Mineral Oil , Ceteareth - 20 , Benzyl Alcohol , Citric Acid , Sodium Citrate , Propylparaben and Purified Water .
Properties Aquax - H ® Cream contains a corticosteroid and quickly suppresses symptoms of certain skin conditions such as itching , redness and scaling .
Corticosteroids do n't generally remove the cause of the symptoms .
The Aquax - H ® Cream base ensures that the skin condition becomes less moist .
Indications Aquax - H ® Cream can be used for the treatment of superficial skin conditions where itching , redness and scaling are often present .
Contraindications Do not use Aquax - H ® Cream • If your skin condition is caused by infections with bacteria , viruses , fungi , yeasts or parasites as these could either be made worse or become unnoticeable .
• In acne even if the skin is red .
• For wounds or scaly skin ( ichthyosis ) .
• If your skin condition is the result of earlier treatment with corticosteroids such as inflammation of the skin around the mouth or thin skin possibly with streaks and vulnerable blood vessels .
• For childhood rash on the foot sole .
• If you are hypersensitive to hydrocortisone 17 - butyrate or to any of the excipients ( uncommon ) .
Precautions Aquax - H ® Cream contains certain excipients like Cetearyl Alcohol that in rare cases can cause hypersensitivity reactions ( itching , red spots ) of the skin .
Drug Interactions Inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are using other medicines or have used them in the recent past .
This also applies to medicines you have obtained without a prescription Warnings Be extra careful with Aquax - H ® Cream • If you want to treat the facial skin , genital skin and skin folds as these areas of skin are particularly sensitive to corticosteroids .
• If you apply the cream under an occlusive bandage , to large areas of skin or are treating a child in which cases you should be under the control of your doctor .
• The Aquax - H ® Cream should not be introduced into the eye or applied to the eyelids .
• The application of corticosteroids for long periods in children should be avoided .
• Consult your doctor if any of the above warnings apply to you .
Pregnancy Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using a medical product .
If you want to apply the cream during pregnancy then discuss this with your doctor .
Breast - feeding Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using a medical product .
If you want to apply the Aquax - H ® during breast - feeding then discuss this with your doctor .
Driving and the use of machines There is nothing known about Aquax - H ® Cream and the ability to drive or to use machines .
However , no effects are to be expected .
Dosage and Administration Apply Aquax - H ® Cream thinly to the affected skin area and massage lightly into the skin .
Do not apply more often than 1 - 3 times daily unless your doctor has advised otherwise .
When your symptoms have receded , your doctor may decide that you can use the cream less often .
In general , you should not use more than 1 to 2 tubes per week .
What you can expect when treatment has been stopped The original symptoms can reappear if treatment is stopped prematurely .
Always consult you doctor or pharmacist before stopping treatment .
Overdosage What you should do if you have used too much Aquax - H Cream Contact you doctor or pharmacist if you have used too much Aquax - H ® Cream .
What you should do if you have forgotten to use Aquax - H Cream If you have forgotten to apply it a single time just carry on as before .
There is no need to compensate for a missed application .
Side Effects Aquax - H ® Cream can cause side effects just like all medicines .
You could sometimes have a burning or prickly feeling at the site of application but this is mostly not serious and disappears on its own .
If you have used it for prolonged periods or under an occlusive bandage , you could get a rash , pimples or the formation of pus .
The skin could become discolored or thin , sometimes with stripes .
Consult your doctor if you have any of these side effects .
Also consult your doctor or pharmacist if you either have any side effects not mentioned in this leaflet or any others that you think might be serious .
Storage Store below 25 ° C Do not store in a refrigerator or freezer .
How Supplied 30 g packs THIS IS A MEDICAMENT • Medicament is a product which affects your health and its consumption contrary to instructions is dangerous for you .
• Strictly follow the doctor ' s prescription , the method of use and the instruction of the pharmacist who sold the medicament .
• The doctor and the pharmacist are experts in medicine , its benefits and risks .
• Do not by yourself interrupt the period of treatment prescribed for you .
• Do not repeat the same prescription without consulting your doctor .
• Keep medicament out of reach of children .
Primary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Secondary Package [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
