Composition Tacrus 0 . 1 % Each1 g contains : Tacrolimus 1 mg .
Excipients : Soft Paraffin , Mineral Oil , Propylene Carbonate , Hard Paraffin and White Beeswax Indications The active substance of Tacrus ® , tacrolimus monohydrate , is an immune - modulating agent .
Tacrus ® 0 . 03 % ointment is used to treat moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ( eczema ) in adults who are not adequately responsive to or are intolerant of conventional therapies such as topical corticosteroids and in children ( 2 years of age and older ) who failed to respond adequately to conventional therapies such as topical corticosteroids .
Tacrus ® 0 . 1 % ointment is used to treat moderate to severe atopic dermatitis ( eczema ) in adults who are not adequately responsive to or are intolerant of conventional therapies such as topical corticosteroids .
Once moderate to severe atopic dermatitis is cleared or almost cleared after up to 6 weeks treatment of a flare , and if you are experiencing frequent flares ( i . e . 4 oc more per year ) , it may be possible to prevent flares coming back or prolong the time you are free from flares by using Tacrus ® 0 . 1 % ointment twice weekly .
In atopic dermatitis , an over - reaction of the skin ' s immune system causes skin inflammation ( itchiness , redness , dryness ) .
Tacrus ® alters the abnormal immune response and relieves the skin inflammation and the itch .
Contraindications If you are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to tacrolimus or any of other ingredients of Tacrus or to macrolide anttbiotics ( e . g . azithromycin , clarithromycin , erythromycin ) .
• Tacrolimus 0 . 03 % is not approved in children younger than 2 years of age .
Therefore it should not be used in this age group .
Please consult your doctor .
• Tacms ® 0 . 1 % ointment is not approved for children younger than 16 years of age .
Therefore it should not be used in this age group .
Please consult your doctor .
• The effect of treatment with Tacrolimus on the developing immune system in children , especially the young , has not been established .
• The safety of using Tacrus ® for a long time is not known .
A very small number of people who have used Tacrolimous ointment have had malignancies ( for example skin or lymphoma ) however a link to Tacrolimus ointment treatmert has not been shown .
• Avoid exposing the skin to long periods of sunlight or artificial sunlight such as tanning beds .
If you spend time outdoors after applying Tacrus ® use sunscreen and wear loose fitting clothing that protects the skin from the sun .
In addition , ask your doctor for advice on other appropriate sun protection methods .
If you are prescribed light therapy , inform your doctor that you are using Tacrus ® as it is not recommended to use Tacrolimus and light therapy at the same time .
• If your doctor tells you to use Tacrus ® twice weekly to keep your atopic dermatitis cleared , your condition should be reviewed by your doctor at least every 12 months , even if it remains under control .
In children , maintenance treatment should be suspended after 12 months , to assess whether the need for continued treatment still exists .
Precautions while taking Tacrus ® Tell your doctor if you : • Have liver failuer .
• Have any skin malignancies ( tumors ) or if you have a weakened immnne system ( immuno - compromised ) whatever the cause .
• Have inherited skin barrier disease such as Netherton ' s syndrome , lamellar ichthyosis ( extensive scaling of the skin due to a thickening of the outer layer of the skin ) , or if you suffer from generalized erythroderma ( inflammatory reddening and scalling of the entire skin ) .
• A cutaneous Graft Versus Host Disease ( an immune reaction of the skin which is a common complication in patients who have undergone a bone marrowtransplant ) .
• Have swollen lymph nodes at initiation of treatment .
If your lymph nodes become swollen during treatment with Tacrus ® , consult your doctor .
• Have infected lesions .
Do not apply the ointment to infected lesions .
• Notice any change to the appearance of your skin , please inform your physician .
Lactation Do n't use Tacrus ® if you are breast - feeding .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist before taking any medicine .
Pregnancy Do n't use Tacrus ® if you are pregnant .
Ask your doctor or pharmcist before taking any medicine .
Drug Interactions Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines , including medicines obtained without a prescription .
You may use moisturizing creams and lotions during treatment with Tacrus ® but these products should not be used within two hours of applying Tacrus ® .
The use of Tacrus ® at the same time as other preparations to be used on the skin or while taking oral corticosteroids ( e . g . cortisone ) or medicines which affect the immune system has not been studied .
Using Tacrus ® with food and drink While using Tacrus ® , drinking alcohol may cause the skin or face to become flushed or red and feel hot .
Dosage and Administration Always use Tacrus ® exactly as your doctor has told you .
You should check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure .
• Apply Tacrus ® as thin layer to affected areas of your skin .
• Tacrus ® may be used on most parts of the body , including the face and the neck and in the creases of your elbows and knees .
• Avoid using the ointment inside your nose or mouth or in your eyes .
If the ointment gets on any of these areas , it should be thoroughly wiped off and / or rinsed off with water .
Do not cover the skin being treated with bandages or wraps .
• Wash your hands after applying Tacrus ® unless your hands are also being treated .
Before applying Tacrus ® after a bath or shower , be sure your skin is completely dry .
Children ( 2 years of age and older ) : Apply Tacrolimus 0 . 03 % ointment twice a day for up to three weeks , once in the morning and once in the evening .
Afterwards the ointment should be used once a day on each affected region of the skin until the eczema has gone away .
Adults ( 16 years of agc and older ) : Two strengths of Tacrolimus ( 0 . 03 % and 0 . 1 % ointment ) are available for adults patients ( 16 years of age and older ) .
Your doctor will decide which strength is best for you .
Usually , treatment is started with Tacrus ® 0 . 1 % ointment twice a day , once in the morning and once in the evening , until the eczema has cleared .
Depending on the response of your eczema your doctor will decide if the frequency of application can be reduced or the lower strength , Tacrolimus 0 . 03 % ointment , can be used .
Treat each affected region of your skin until the eczema has gone away .
Improvement is usually seen within one week .
If you do not see any improvement after two weeks , see your doctor about other possible treatments .
You may be told by your doctor to use Tacrus ® 0 . 1 % ointment twice weekly once your atopic dermatitis has cleared or almost cleared ( Tacrolimus 0 . 03 % for children and Tacrs ® 0 . 1 % for adults ) .
Tacrus ® 0 . 1 % ointment should be applied once a day twice weekly ( e . g . Monday and Thursday ) to areas of your body commonly affected by atopic dermatitis .
There should be 2 - 3 days without Tacrus ® treatment between applications .
If symptoms reappear you should use Tacrus ® twice daily as outlined above and arrange to see your doctor to review your treatment .
Possible Side Effects Like all medicines , Tacrus ® can cause side effects , although not everybody gets them .
Very common ( probably affecting more than 1 in 10 ) : burning sensation and itching ; these symptoms are usually mild to moderate and generally go away within one week of using Tacrus ® .
• Common ( probably affecting up to 1 in 10 ) : Redness , feeling of warmth , pain , increased skin sensitivity ( especially to hot and cold ) skin tingling , rash , local skin infection regardless of specific cause including but not limited to : inflamed or infected hair follicles , cold sores , generalized herpes simplex infections , facial flushing or skin irritation after drinking alcohol is also common .
• Uncommon ( probably affecting less than 1 in 100 ) : acne .
Following twice - weekly treatment application site infections have been reported in children and adults , impetigo , a superficial bacterial skin infection that usually produces blisters or sores on the skin , has been reported in children .
Rosaceae ( facial redness ) , Rosaceae - like dermatitis and oedema at the application site has been reported during post marketing experience .
Since commercial availability a very small number of people who have used Tacrolimus ointment have had malignancies ( for example , skin and lymphoma ) .
However a link to Tacrolimus ointment has not been confirmed or refuted on the available evidence so far .
If any of the side effects gets serious , or if you notice any side effect not listed in this leaflet , please tell your doctor or pharmacist .
Overdosage If you accidentaly swallow some ointment If you accidentally swallow the ointment , consult your doctor or pharmacist as soon as possible .
Do not try to induce Vomiting .
If you forget to use Tacrus ® If you forget to apply the ointment at the scheduled time , do it as soon as you remember and then continue as before .
If you have any further questions on the use of this product , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How supplied 10 g packs .
30 g packs .
Storage Do not store above 25 ° C . Keep out of the reach and sight of children .
Do not use Tacrus ® after the expiry date which is stated on the tube and carton after Exp .
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month .
THIS IS A MEDICAMENT • Medicament is a product which affects your health and its consumption contrary to instructions is dangerous for you .
• Strictly follow the doctor ' s prescription , the method of use and the instruction of the pharmacist who sold the medicament .
• The doctor and the pharmacist are experts in medicine , its benefits and risks .
• Do not by yourself interrupt the period of treatment prescribed for you .
• Do not repeat the same prescription without consulting your doctor .
• Keep medicament out of reach of children .
Secondary Package 10 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Secondary Package 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Package 30 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Primary Package 10 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
