Minoxidil 2 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment USE Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of box ) For external use only .
Flamable : Keep away from fire of flame .
Do not use if : • Your amount of hair loss is different than shown on the side of this carton , because this product may not work for you • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children • Your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• Some people have expereinced changes in hair color and / or texture • It takes time to re - grow hair .
You may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all women .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs ■ Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs ■ Your hands or feet swell ■ Scalp irritation or redness occurs ■ Unwanted facial hair growth occurs ■ You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
• Apply one mL ( 6 sprays ) 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • Using more or more ofthen will not improve results • Continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again • See hair loss pictures on the side of this carton • Before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • Keep the carton .
It contains important information • In clincial studies of mostly white women aged 18 - 45 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , the following responses to Minoxidil Topical Solution 2 % was reported : 19 % of women reported moderate hair regrowth after using 2 % minoxidil topical solution for 8 months ( 19 % had moderate regrowth ; 40 % had minimal hair regrowth ) .
This compares with the 7 % of women reporting moderate hair regrowth after using a placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it , for 8 months ( 7 % had moderate regrowth ; 33 % had minimal regrowth ) .
• Store at controlled room temperature 20 o to 25 o C ( 68 o to 77 oF ) Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or comments ?
Call your health professional or BosleyMD at 1 ( 800 ) BOSLEY1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
