Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE to regrow hair on the top of the scalp For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame .
Do not use if • You are a woman • Your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on this carton , because this product may not work for you • You have no family history of hair loss • Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • Your hair loss is associated with childbirth • You do not know the reason for your hair loss • You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies or children .
• Your scalp is red , inflammed , infected , irritated , or painful • You use other medicines on your scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • Do not apply on other parts of the body • Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• Some people have experienced change in hair color and / or texture .
It takes time to regrow hair .
For some men , you may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results .
• The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again OTHER INFORMATION • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • store at controlled room temperature 68º to 77ºF ( 20º to 25ºC ) .
lcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Questions or comments Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 681 - 0241 or visit hellorootly . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
