Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see picture on side of carton ) For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame • you are a woman • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
5 % minoxidil topical solution is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water • some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
• chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Alcohol , Propylene Glycol , Purified Water Call MDalgorithms Inc . at ; 1 - 833 - 257 - 1914 or contact us at ; support @ MDhair . co [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
