Minoxidil 2 % w / v USE Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of the carton ) .
Hair regrowth treatment For external use only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if ■ you are a woman ■ your amount of hair loss is dierent than that shown on the side of this carton , or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
EXT Hair Regrowth Treatment is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
■ you have no family history of hair loss ■ your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy ■ you do not know the reason for your hair loss ■ you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
■ your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful ■ you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product ■ do not apply on other parts of the body ■ avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
■ some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture ■ it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
■ the amount of hair regrowth is dierent for each person .
This product will not work for everyone .
Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ side eects occur .
You may report side eects to FDA at 1 . 800 .
FDA . 1088 ■ chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs ■ sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs ■ your hands or feet swell ■ scalp irritation or redness occurs ■ unwanted facial hair growth occurs ■ you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS Directions ■ apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the area of hair loss ■ using more or more often will not improve results ■ continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again .
Other information ■ see hair loss pictures on side of this carton ■ before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet ■ keep this carton .
It contains important information .
■ in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , the following response to minoxidil topical solution 2 % was reported : 26 % of men reported moderate to dense hair regrowth after using minoxidil topical solution 2 % for 4 months ( 26 % had moderate to dense regrowth ; 33 % had minimal regrowth ) .
This compares with 11 % of men reporting hair regrowth after using the placebo , the liquid without minoxidil in it , for 4 months ( 11 % had moderate to dense regrowth ; 31 % had minimal regrowth ) .
■ store at controlled room temperature between 68 ° - 77 ° F ( 20 ° - 25 ° C ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Inactive ingredients alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
