Minoxidil 5 % w / v Hair regrowth treatment for men USE to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) For external use only .
For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if ■ You are a woman ■ Your amount of hair loss is dierent than that shown on the side of this carton , or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
■ You have no family history of hair loss ■ Your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy ■ You do not know the reason for your hair loss ■ You are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
■ Your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful ■ You use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product ■ Do not apply on other parts of the body ■ Avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
■ It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
■ The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
■ Some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture Stop use and ask a doctor if ■ Chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs ■ Sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs ■ Your hands or feet swell ■ Scalp irritation or redness occurs ■ Unwanted facial hair growth occurs ■ You do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • prime the sprayer by holding the bottle upright and pump the sprayer 5 times to ensure delivery of full spray .
Do not inhale mist .
• apply 1 mL with sprayer ( 6 sprays ) 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again OTHER INFORMATION • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men • in clinical studies of mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , 5 % minoxidil topical solution for men provided more hair regrowth than 2 % minoxidil topical solution • store at controlled room temperature 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water Questions or comments ?
call toll free ( 888 ) 829 - 4212 or visit website at www . dslaboratories . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
