Drug Facts Active ingredient Minoxidil 2 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for women Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • your degree of hair loss is different than that shown on side of this carton because this product may not work for you • you have no family history of hair loss • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • your hair loss is associated with childbirth • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated or painful • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • do not apply on other parts of the body • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • it takes time to regrow hair .
You may need to use this product 2 times a day for at least 4 months before you see results .
• the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for allwomen .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • your hands or feet swell • scalp irritation or redness occurs • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • you do not see hair regrowth in 6 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • using more or more often will not improve results • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not expose to heat or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
Inactive ingredients alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 723 - 9569 DIST .
BY PROCTER & GAMBLE CINCINNATI OH 45202 .
PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton Head & Shoulders SCALP X MINOXIDIL TOPICAL SOLUTION USP , 2 % HAIR REGROWTH TREATMENT FOR WOMEN CLINICALLY PROVEN TO HELP REGROW HAIR Reactivates hair follicles to stimulate regrowth Topical Solution Three month supply Unscented 3 - 60 mL ( 2 FL OZ ) BOTTLES TOTAL 180 mL ( 6 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
