IROSPAN TABLET DESCRIPTION : Each light blue capsule - shaped film coated tablet has a pleasant sweet flavor with WC002 imprinted on one side .
SUCCINIC ACID TABLET DESCRIPTION : Each white round film coated tablet has a pleasant sweet flavor with WC imprinted on one side .
Clinical Pharmacology : Iron is an essential component in the formation of hemoglobin .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erthropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , including cytochromes that are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal erthropoiesis .
Folic acid is converted in the liver and plasma to its metabolically active form , tetrahydrofolic acid , by dihydrofolate reductase .
Vitamin B12 is required for the maintenance of normal erthropoiesis , nucleprotein and myelin synthesis , cell reproduction and normal growth .
Intrinsic factor , a glycoprotein secreted by the gastric mucosa , is required for active absorption of Vitamin B12 from the gastrointestinal tract .
INDICATION AND USAGE : IROSPAN 24 / 6 is indicated for the treatment of all anemias that are responsive to oral iron therapy .
These include : hypochromic anemia associated with pregnancy , chronic and / or acute blood loss , metabolic disease , post - surgical convalescence , and dietary needs .
Warnings : Ingestion of more than 3 grams of omega - fatty acids per day has been shown to have potential antithrombotic effects , including increased bleeding time and INR .
Administration of omega - 3 fatty acids should be avoided in patients on anticoagulants and in those known to have an inherited or acquired bleeding diathesis .
Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where vitamin B12 is deficient .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
P recautions : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
This product contains formate , which if consumed above the recommended level , could cause visual impairment and other health effects .
Do not take more than the recommended amount .
If you are pregnant , nursing , or taking any medications consult your doctor before use .
Discontinue use and consult your doctor if any adverse reactions occur .
Not intended for use by persons under the age of 18 .
A dverse Reactions : Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Dosage and Administration Usual adult dosage is 1 tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
The IROSPAN ® carton contains a 30 day course of iron therapy that consists of 24 light blue tablets and 6 white tablets .
Take 1 light blue tablet daily for 24 days , followed by 1 white tablet daily for 6 days .
After the 30 tablets have been taken , a new course may be started if prescribed .
How Supplied IROSPAN ® 24 / 6 tablets for oral administration are available in four child resistant blister cards containing 30 tablets ( 24 light blue tablets and 6 white tablets ) ( NDC 50967 - 126 - 30 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
