Rx Only Description Fem pH Vaginal Jelly is a bland , non - irritating water dispersible , buffered acid jelly for intravaginal use .
Fem pH is classified as a Vaginal Therapeutic Jelly .
Fem pH contains 0 . 9 % glacial acetic acid ( C2H402 ) and 0 . 025 % oxyquinoline sulfate ( C18H16N206S ) compounded with glycerin , lactic acid , poly ethylene glycol 4500 and purified water .
Fem pH is formulated to pH 3 . 8 - 4 . 3 and is adjusted using 1 N potassium hydroxide .
Clinical Pharmacology Fem pH acts to restore and maintain normal vaginal acidity through its buffered action .
Indications and Usage Fem pH is indicated as adjunctive therapy in those cases where restoration and maintenance of vaginal acidity is desirable .
Contraindications None known .
Warnings No serious adverse reactions or potential safety hazard have been reported with the use of Fem pH . Precautions General No special care is required for the safe and effective use of Fem pH . Drug Interactions No incidence of drug interactions has been reported with concomitant use of Fem pH and any other medication .
Laboratory Tests The monitoring of vaginal acidity ( pH ) may be helpful in following the patient ' s response .
( The normal vaginal pH has been shown to be in the range of 4 . 0 to 5 . 0 ) Carcinogenesis No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Fem pH . It is not known whether Fem pH can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Fem pH should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Fem pH is administered to a nursing woman .
Adverse Reactions Occasional cases of local stinging and burning have been reported .
Dosage and Administration The usual dose is one applicator full , administered intra - vaginally , morning and evening .
Duration of treatment may be determined by the patient ' s response to therapy .
Each tube has a tamper evident seal at the opening of the tube .
Replace cap after each use .
To fill applicator screw applicator clockwise onto the tube .
Squeeze tube forcing Fem pH jelly into barrel until it is full .
Then unscrew applicator counter - clockwise to remove from tube .
Lie on your back with knees drawn up .
Hold filled applicator by the barrel and gently insert it into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
Press plunger to empty the contents .
Keep the plunger depressed and remove the applicator from vagina .
After each use pull applicator apart and wash with warm soapy water , rinse well , dry and reassemble .
How Supplied 50 g Tube ( NDC 00813 - 0799 - 55 ) with Fem pH applicator .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
Store at controlled room temperature 59 ° - 86 ° F ( 15 ° - 30 ° C ) Therapeutic Vaginal Jelly Directions for using Fem pH applicator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tube has a tamper evident seal at the opening of the tube .
Replace cap after each use .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] To fill applicator screw applicator clockwise onto the tube .
Squeeze tube forcing Fem pH jelly into barrel until it is full .
Then unscrew applicator counter - clockwise to remove from tube .
Lie on your back with knees drawn up .
Hold filled applicator by the barrel and gently insert it into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
Press plunger to empty the contents .
Keep the plunger depressed and remove the applicator from vagina .
After each use pull applicator apart and wash with warm soapy water , rinse well , dry and reassemble .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 50 g Tube Box NDC 00813 - 0799 - 55 Rx Only Fem pH ™ Therapeutic Vaginal Jelly Net Weight 50 g ( 1 . 66 oz . )
pharmicsINC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
