Active ingredient Hydrocortisone , USP 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • jewelry • detergents • cosmetics • psoriasis • seborrheic dermatitis • for external gential , feminine and anal itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • for external feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor • for external anal itching • do not use more than directed unless directed by a doctor • do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older * apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 2 years of age * do not use , consult a doctor For external anal itching Adults : when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water , rinse thoroughly , gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a solft cloth before application of this product .
Children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • Storage temperature : not to exceed 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
• Before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients aloe vera concentrate , benzyl alcohol , ceteareth 20 , cetearyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , glycerin , isopropyl myristate , isostearyl neopentanoate , methylparaben , peg - 40 stearate , purified water .
May contain citric acid or sodium citrate solution to adjust pH . Questions ?
Call 724 - 733 - 7381 Avedana ® Hydrocortisone Cream with Aloe | 1 oz Tube label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Avedana ® Hydrocortisone Cream with Aloe | 1 oz Carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
