Drug Facts Active Ingredient Chloroxylenol 1 . 5 % w / w Purpose Antiseptic Hand Cleanser Uses • handwash to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • helps to prevent cross contamination by hand contact • helps to prevent drying of the skin • recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only When using this product do not use in or near the eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • wet hands and wrists with clean , running water • apply appropriate amount of product • lather and scrub hands , fingers , fingernails , cuticles and wrists for at least 20 seconds • rinse thoroughly with running water • dry hands completely ( incomplete drying may lead to chapped skin ) Other Information store in a cool , dry place below 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients Water , sodium laureth sulfate , isopropyl alcohol , phenoxyethanol , glycerine , TetraSodium EDTA , citric acid , sodium hydroxide Questions ?
Contact ChemStation at 800 - 554 - 8625 Mon - Fri 9 am - 5 pm EST Can cause eye irritation .
Prevention : Keep away from heat / sparks / open flames / hot surfaces - No Smoking .
Use only non - sparking tools .
Keep container tightly closed .
Response : IF IN EYES : Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes .
Remove contact lenses , if present and easy to do .
Continue rinsing .
If eye irritation persists : Get medical advice / attention .
IF ON SKIN ( or hair ) : Remove / Take off immediately all contaminated clothing .
Rinse skin ( hair ) with water .
IF INHALED : Remove victim to fresh air and keep at rest in a position comfortable for breathing .
In case of fire : Use CO 2 dry chemical , or foam for extinction .
Storage : Stored in a well - ventilated place .
Keep Cool .
Disposal : Dispose of contents / container to an approved waste disposal plant .
Manufactured for : ChemStation Buyers Association , Inc .
3400 Encrete Lane Dayton , OH 45439 www . chemstation . com CHEMSTATION ® E2 Sanitizing Foam Soap Chloroxylenol ( PCMX ) Rich , thick foam Our System Is The Solution Net Contents : 55 U . S . Gallons ( 208 . 198 liters ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
