Drug Facts Active Ingredient Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 12 % w / w Purpose Antiseptic Hand Cleanser Uses • handwash to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease • helps to prevent cross contamination by hand contact • helps to prevent drying of the skin • recommended for repeated use Warnings For external use only When using this product do not use in or near eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation and redness develop .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , seek medical attention or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions • wet hands and wrists with clean , running water • apply appropriate amount of product • lather and scrub hands , fingers , fingernails , cuticles and wrists for at least 20 seconds • rinse thoroughly with running water • dry hands completely ( incomplete drying may result in chapped skin ) Other Information store in a cool , dry place below 104 ° F ( 40 ° C ) Inactive Ingredients Water , cocoamidopropy betaine , glycerine , polyethylene - polypropylene glycol , benzyl alcohol , phenoxyethanol , tetra sodium EDTA , dehydroacetic acid , sodium hydroxide , citric acid Questions ?
Contact ChemStation at 800 - 554 - 8265 Mon - Fri 9 am - 5 pm EST Can cause eye irritation Response : IF IN EYES : Contact may cause mild , transient irritation .
For irritation , rinse cautiously with water for several minutes .
Remove contact lenses , if present and easy to do .
Continue rinsing .
If eye irritation persists , get medical advice / attention .
IF ON SKIN ( or hair ) : Not expected to be irritating , sensitizing , photoallerginic or phototoxic when used as intended .
If irritation occurs following intended use or prolonged contact , it is expected to be mild and transient .
Storage : Store in a dry area at normal temperatures .
Disposal : Dispose of contents / container to an approved waste disposal plant .
Manufactured for : ChemStation Buyers Association , Inc .
3400 Encrete Lane Dayton , OH 45439 www . chemstation . com CHEMSTATION ® Q E2 Sanitizing Foam Soap Benzalkonium Chloride pH balanced and formulated with emollients to help keep skin healthy Our System Is The Solution Net Contents : 55 U . S . Gallons ( 208 . 198 liters ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
