Seromycin ® CycloSERINE CAPSULES , USP DESCRIPTION Seromycin ® ( CycloSERINE Capsules , USP ) D - Cycloserine , ( R ) - 4 - amino - 3 - isoxazol - idinone , is a broad - spectrum antibiotic that is produced by a strain of Streptomyces orchidaceus and has also been synthesized .
Cycloserine is a white to off - white powder that is soluble in water and stable in alkaline solution .
It is rapidly destroyed at a neutral or acid pH . Cycloserine has a pH between 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 in a solution containing 100 mg / mL .
The molecular weight of cycloserine is 102 . 09 , and it has an empirical formula of C3H6N2O2 .
The structural formula of cycloserine is as follows : Each capsule contains cycloserine , 250 mg ( 2 . 45 mmol ) ; D & C Yellow No . 10 , F D & C Blue No . 1 , F D & C Red No . 3 , F D & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin , iron oxide , talc , titanium dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , benzyl alcohol , sodium propionate , edetate calcium disodium , butylparaben , methylparaben , propylparaben , and carboxymethylcellulose .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY After oral administration , Seromycin ® is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , with peak blood levels occurring in 4 to 8 hours .
Blood levels of 25 to 30 μg / mL can generally be maintained with the usual dosage of 250 mg twice a day , although the relationship of plasma levels to dosage is not always consistent .
Concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid , pleural fluid , fetal blood , and mother ’ s milk approach those found in the serum .
Detectable amounts are found in ascitic fluid , bile , sputum , amniotic fluid , and lung and lymph tissues .
Approximately 65 % of a single dose of Seromycin ® can be recovered in the urine within 72 hours after oral administration .
The remaining 35 % is apparently metabolized to unknown substances .
The maximum excretion rate occurs 2 to 6 hours after administration , with 50 % of the drug eliminated in 12 hours .
Mechanism of Action : The antibacterial activity of Seromycin ® results from inhibition of cell - wall synthesis in susceptible strains of gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
Antibacterial Activity : Seromycin ® has been shown to be active against most isolates of the following microorganism , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ] : Mycobacterium tuberculosis .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Seromycin ® is indicated in the treatment of active pulmonary and extrapulmonary tuberculosis ( including renal disease ) when the causative organisms are susceptible to this drug and when treatment with the primary medications ( streptomycin , isoniazid , rifampin , and ethambutol ) has proved inadequate .
Like all antituberculosis drugs , Seromycin ® should be administered in conjunction with other effective chemotherapy and not as the sole therapeutic agent .
Seromycin ® may be effective in the treatment of acute urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of gram - positive and gram - negative bacteria .
Use of Seromycin ® in these infections should be considered only when more conventional therapy has failed and when the organism has been demonstrated to be susceptible to the drug .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Administration is contraindicated in patients with any of the following : • Hypersensitivity to Seromycin ® • Epilepsy • Depression , severe anxiety , or psychosis • Severe renal insufficiency • Excessive concurrent use of alcohol WARNINGS Administration of Seromycin ® should be discontinued or the dosage reduced if the patient develops allergic dermatitis or symptoms of CNS toxicity , such as convulsions , psychosis , somnolence , depression , confusion , hyperreflexia , headache , tremor , vertigo , paresis , or dysarthria .
The toxicity of Seromycin ® is closely related to excessive blood levels ( above 30 µg / mL ) , as determined by high dosage or inadequate renal clearance .
The ratio of toxic dose to effective dose in tuberculosis is small .
The risk of convulsions is increased in chronic alcoholics .
Patients should be monitored by hematologic , renal excretion , blood level , and liver function studies .
PRECAUTIONS General : Before treatment with Seromycin ® is initiated , cultures should be taken and the organism ’ s susceptibility to the drug should be established .
In tuberculous infections , the organism ’ s susceptibility to the other antituberculosis agents in the regimen should also be demonstrated .
Anticonvulsant drugs or sedatives may be effective in controlling symptoms of CNS toxicity , such as convulsions , anxiety , and tremor .
Patients receiving more than 500 mg of Seromycin ® daily should be closely observed for such symptoms .
The value of pyridoxine in preventing CNS toxicity from Seromycin ® has not been proved .
Administration of Seromycin ® and other antituberculosis drugs has been associated in a few instances with vitamin B12 and / or folic - acid deficiency , megaloblastic anemia , and sideroblastic anemia .
If evidence of anemia develops during treatment , appropriate studies and therapy should be instituted .
Laboratory Tests : Blood levels should be determined at least weekly for patients with reduced renal function , for individuals receiving a daily dosage of more than 500 mg , and for those showing signs and symptoms suggestive of toxicity .
The dosage should be adjusted to keep the blood level below 30 µg / mL .
Drug Interactions : Concurrent administration of ethionamide has been reported to potentiate neurotoxic side effects .
Alcohol and Seromycin ® are incompatible , especially during a regimen calling for large doses of the latter .
Alcohol increases the possibility and risk of epileptic episodes .
Concurrent administration of isoniazid may result in increased incidence of CNS effects , such as dizziness or drowsiness .
Dosage adjustments may be necessary and patients should be monitored closely for signs of CNS toxicity .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenicity , and Impairment of Fertility : Studies have not been performed to determine potential for carcinogenicity .
The Ames test and unscheduled DNA repair test were negative .
A study in 2 generations of rats showed no impairment of fertility relative to controls for the first mating but somewhat lower fertility in the second mating .
Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies with the use of Seromycin ® in pregnant women .
A study in 2 generations of rats given doses up to 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately equivalent to the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) demonstrated no teratogenic effect in offspring .
Seromycin ® should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from Seromycin ® , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Usage in Pediatric Patients : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of Seromycin ® did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they responded differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
The toxicity of Seromycin ® is closely related to excessive blood levels ( above 30 µg / mL ) as determined by high dosage or inadequate renal clearance ( see WARNINGS ) .
Blood levels should be determined at least weekly for patients with reduced renal function , for individuals receiving a daily dosage of more than 500 mg , and for those showing signs and symptoms suggestive of toxicity .
The dosage should be adjusted to keep the blood level below 30 µg / mL ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Most adverse reactions occurring during therapy with Seromycin ® involve the nervous system or are manifestations of drug hypersensitivity .
The following side effects have been observed in patients receiving Seromycin ® : Nervous system symptoms ( which appear to be related to higher dosages of the drug , i . e . , more than 500 mg daily ) • Convulsions • Drowsiness and somnolence • Headache • Tremor • Dysarthria • Vertigo • Confusion and disorientation with loss of memory • Psychoses , possibly with suicidal tendencies • Character changes • Hyperirritability • Aggression • Paresis • Hyperreflexia • Paresthesia • Major & minor ( localized ) clonic seizures • Coma Cardiovascular : Sudden development of congestive heart failure in patients receiving 1 to 1 . 5 g of Seromycin ® daily has been reported Allergy ( apparently not related to dosage ) Skin rash Miscellaneous : Elevated serum transaminase , especially in patients with preexisting liver disease OVERDOSAGE Signs and Symptoms : Acute toxicity from Seromycin ® can occur if more than 1 g is ingested by an adult .
Chronic toxicity from Seromycin ® is dose related and can occur if more than 500 mg is administered daily .
The central nervous system is the most common organ system involved with toxicity .
Toxic effects may include headache , vertigo , confusion , drowsiness , hyperirritability , paresthesias , dysarthria , psychosis paresis , convulsions , and coma .
Treatment : In adults , many of the neurotoxic effects of Seromycin ® can be both treated and prevented with the administration of 200 to 300 mg of pyridoxine daily .
Hemodialysis has been shown to remove Seromycin ® from the bloodstream .
This procedure should be reserved for patients with life threatening toxicity that is unresponsive to less invasive therapy .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Seromycin ® is effective orally and is currently administered only by this route .
The usual dosage is 500 mg to 1 g daily in divided doses monitored by blood levels . 2 The initial adult dosage most frequently given is 250 mg twice daily at 12 - hour intervals for the first 2 weeks .
A daily dosage of 1 g should not be exceeded .
HOW SUPPLIED Seromycin ® is available as a 250 mg capsule with an opaque red cap and opaque gray body imprinted with “ PGC ” and “ F04 ” in edible black ink on both the cap and the body .
Aluminum blisters ( a pack of 3 cards each with 10 capsules ) .
NDC 13845 - 1200 - 2 .
Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
REFERENCES 1 .
Kubica GP , Dye WE : Laboratory methods for clinical and public health — mycobacteriology .
US Department of Health , Education and Welfare , Public Health Service , 1967 , pp 47 – 55 , 66 – 70 .
2 .
Jones LR : Colorimetric determination of cycloserine , a new antibiotic .
Anal Chem 1956 ; 28 : 39 .
PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 13845 - 1203 - 2 SEROMYCIN ® CycloSERINE Capsules USP 250 mg 30 Capsules R X only SEROMYCIN ® ( CycloSERINE Capsules USP , 250 mg ) Each capsule contains : cycloserine ..............................................
250 mg Dosage and Administration : Seromycin ® is effective orally and is currently administered only by this route .
The usual initial adult dose is one capsule ( 250 mg ) twice a day at 12 - hour intervals .
See accompanying literature .
Warning : Potent drug ; may cause serious reactions in some individuals .
Use in patients under close medical supervision .
Read accompanying literature before using .
How Supplied : Seromycin ® is available as a 250 - mg capsule with an opaque red cap and opaque gray body imprinted with “ PGC ” and “ F04 ” in edible black ink on both the cap and the body .
Storage : Store at controlled room temperature , 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
3 13845 12032 3 Parsolex GMP Center , Inc . , West Lafayette , IN 47906 - 1075 USA ( www . parsolexinc . com ) LM000287 . 00 SEROMYCIN ® ( CycloSERINE Capsules USP , 250 mg ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Insert [ MULTIMEDIA ] res [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
