KEEP THE CARTON .
IT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each extended - release tablet ) Guaifenesin 1200 mg Purpose Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for the timing of meals • adults and children 12 years of age and over : 1 tablet every 12 hours .
Do not exceed 2 tablets in 24 hours .
• children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • Tamper evident : do not use if carton is open or if printed seal on blister is broken or missing .
• store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer type B , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , sodium starch glycolate Questions ?
Contact 1 - 844 - 243 - 1241 or email hi @ curistrelief . com Save 20 % Use code MUCUSMAX20 on your next package at curistrelief . com Limit one per customer .
Distributed by : Little Pharma , Inc .
New York , NY 10023 Made in India curist Mucus Relief Maximum Strength Guaifenesin Extended - Release Tablets 1200 mg Expectorant 12 Hour Relieves Chest Congestion Thins and Loosens Mucus Immediate and Extended Release 84 EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
