RECENT MAJOR CHANGES Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) 10 / 2015 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Noxivent ™ is a vasodilator indicated to improve oxygenation and reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in term and near - term ( > 34 weeks gestation ) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 20 ppm , maintained for up to 14 days or until the underlying oxygen desaturation has resolved ( 2 . 1 ) .
Doses greater than 20 ppm are not recommended ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 2 ) Administration : • Use only with a NOxBOXi ® operated by trained personnel ( 2 . 2 ) • Avoid abrupt discontinuation ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Noxivent ™ ( nitric oxide ) is a gas available in 100 ppm and 800 ppm concentrations ( 3 ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Neonates dependent on right - to - left shunting of blood ( 4 ) .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Rebound : Abrupt discontinuation of Noxivent ™ may lead to worsening oxygenation and increasing pulmonary artery pressure ( 5 . 1 ) .
Methemoglobinemia : Methemoglobin increases with the dose of nitric oxide ; following discontinuation or reduction of nitric oxide , methemoglobin levels return to baseline over a period of hours ( 5 . 2 ) .
Elevated NO 2 Levels : Monitor NO 2 levels ( 5 . 3 ) .
Heart Failure : In patients with pre - existing left ventricular dysfunction , Noxivent ™ may increase pulmonary capillary wedge pressure leading to pulmonary edema ( 5 . 4 ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypotension .
( 6 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Linde , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 772 - 9247 and http : / / www . linde . com or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Nitric oxide donor compounds may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia ( 7 ) .
FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION : CONTENTS * * Sections or subsections omitted from the full prescribing information are not listed 1 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 2 .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage 2 . 2 Administration 3 .
DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 4 .
CONTRAINDICATIONS 5 .
WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Rebound Pulmonary Hypertension Syndrome following Abrupt Discontinuation 5 . 2 Hypoxemia from Methemoglobinemia 5 . 3 Airway Injury from Nitrogen Dioxide 5 . 4 Worsening Heart Failure 6 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience 6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience 7 .
DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Nitric Oxide Donor Agents 8 .
USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy 8 . 3 Nursing Mothers 8 . 4 Pediatric Use 8 . 5 Geriatric Use 10 .
OVERDOSAGE 11 .
DESCRIPTION 12 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action 12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics 13 .
NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility 14 .
CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Hypoxic Respiratory Failure ( HRF ) 14 . 2 Ineffective in Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) 14 . 3 Ineffective in Prevention of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia ( BPD ) 16 .
HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING FULL PRESCRIBING INFORMATION 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Noxivent ™ is indicated to improve oxygenation and reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in term and near - term ( > 34 weeks gestation ) neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate agents .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION 2 . 1 Dosage Term and near - term neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure The recommended dose of Noxivent ™ is 20 ppm .
Maintain treatment up to 14 days or until the underlying oxygen desaturation has resolved and the neonate is ready to be weaned from Noxivent ™ therapy .
Doses greater than 20 ppm are not recommended [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Administration Training in Administration The user of Noxivent ™ and Nitric Oxide Delivery Systems must satisfactorily complete a comprehensive periodic training program for health care professionals provided by the delivery system and drug manufacturers .
Health professional staff that administers nitric oxide therapy have access to supplier - provided 24 hour / 365 days per year technical support on the delivery and administration of Noxivent ™ at 1 - 833 - 669 - 8368 .
Nitric Oxide Delivery Systems Noxivent ™ must be administered using a calibrated NOxBOXi ® .
Only validated ventilator systems should be used in conjunction with Noxivent ™ .
Consult the Nitric Oxide Delivery System label or call 833 - 669 - 8368 / visit linde . com for a current list of validated systems .
Keep available a backup battery power supply and an independent reserve nitric oxide delivery system to address power and system failures .
Monitoring Measure methemoglobin within 4 - 8 hours after initiation of treatment with Noxivent ™ and periodically throughout treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Monitor for PaO 2 and inspired NO 2 during Noxivent ™ administration [ see Warnings and Precautions 5 . 3 ) ] .
Weaning and Discontinuation Avoid abrupt discontinuation of Noxivent ™ [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
To wean Noxivent ™ , downtitrate in several steps , pausing several hours at each step to monitor for hypoxemia .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Noxivent ™ ( nitric oxide ) gas is available in 100 ppm and 800 ppm concentrations .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Noxivent ™ is contraindicated in neonates dependent on right - to - left shunting of blood .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5 . 1 Rebound Pulmonary Hypertension Syndrome following Abrupt Discontinuation Wean from Noxivent ™ [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Abrupt discontinuation of Noxivent ™ may lead to worsening oxygenation and increasing pulmonary artery pressure , i . e . , Rebound Pulmonary Hypertension Syndrome .
Signs and symptoms of Rebound Pulmonary Hypertension Syndrome include hypoxemia , systemic hypotension , bradycardia , and decreased cardiac output .
If Rebound Pulmonary Hypertension occurs , reinstate Noxivent ™ therapy immediately .
5 . 2 Hypoxemia from Methemoglobinemia Nitric oxide combines with hemoglobin to form methemoglobin , which does not transport oxygen .
Methemoglobin levels increase with the dose of Noxivent ™ ; it can take 8 hours or more before steady - state methemoglobin levels are attained .
Monitor methemoglobin and adjust the dose of Noxivent ™ to optimize oxygenation .
If methemoglobin levels do not resolve with decrease in dose or discontinuation of Noxivent ™ , additional therapy may be warranted to treat methemoglobinemia [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
5 . 3 Airway Injury from Nitrogen Dioxide Nitrogen dioxide ( NO 2 ) forms in gas mixtures containing NO and O 2 .
Nitrogen dioxide may cause airway inflammation and damage to lung tissues .
If there is an unexpected change in NO 2 concentration , or if the NO 2 concentration reaches 3 ppm when measured in the breathing circuit , then the delivery system should be assessed in accordance with the NOxBOXi and NOxMixer Technical Guide troubleshooting section , and the NO 2 analyzer should be recalibrated .
The dose of Noxivent ™ and / or FiO 2 should be adjusted as appropriate .
5 . 4 Worsening Heart Failure Patients with left ventricular dysfunction treated with Noxivent ™ may experience pulmonary edema , increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , worsening of left ventricular dysfunction , systemic hypotension , bradycardia and cardiac arrest .
Discontinue Noxivent ™ while providing symptomatic care .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the label ; Hypoxemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Worsening Heart Failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from the clinical studies does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Controlled studies have included 325 patients on nitric oxide doses of 5 to 80 ppm and 251 patients on placebo .
Total mortality in the pooled trials was 11 % on placebo and 9 % on nitric oxide , a result adequate to exclude nitric oxide mortality being more than 40 % worse than placebo .
In both the NINOS and CINRGI studies , the duration of hospitalization was similar in nitric oxide and placebo - treated groups .
From all controlled studies , at least 6 months of follow - up is available for 278 patients who received nitric oxide and 212 patients who received placebo .
Among these patients , there was no evidence of an adverse effect of treatment on the need for rehospitalization , special medical services , pulmonary disease , or neurological sequelae .
In the NINOS study , treatment groups were similar with respect to the incidence and severity of intracranial hemorrhage , Grade IV hemorrhage , periventricular leukomalacia , cerebral infarction , seizures requiring anticonvulsant therapy , pulmonary hemorrhage , or gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
In CINRGI , the only adverse reaction ( > 2 % higher incidence on nitric oxide than on placebo ) was hypotension ( 14 % vs . 11 % ) .
6 . 2 Post - Marketing Experience Post marketing reports of accidental exposure to nitric oxide for inhalation in hospital staff has been associated with chest discomfort , dizziness , dry throat , dyspnea , and headache .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Nitric Oxide Donor Agents Nitric oxide donor agents such as prilocaine , sodium nitroprusside and nitroglycerine may increase the risk of developing methemoglobinemia .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Noxivent ™ .
It is not known if Noxivent ™ can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Noxivent ™ is not indicated for use in adults .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Nitric oxide is not indicated for use in the adult population , including nursing mothers .
It is not known whether nitric oxide is excreted in human milk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of nitric oxide for inhalation has been demonstrated in term and near - term neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with evidence of pulmonary hypertension [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
Additional studies conducted in premature neonates for the prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia have not demonstrated substantial evidence of efficacy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
No information about its effectiveness in other age populations is available .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Nitric oxide is not indicated for use in the adult population .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with Noxivent ™ is manifest by elevations in methemoglobin and pulmonary toxicities associated with inspired NO 2 .
Elevated NO 2 may cause acute lung injury .
Elevations in methemoglobin reduce the oxygen delivery capacity of the circulation .
In clinical studies , NO 2 levels > 3 ppm or methemoglobin levels > 7 % were treated by reducing the dose of , or discontinuing , nitric oxide .
Methemoglobinemia that does not resolve after reduction or discontinuation of therapy can be treated with intravenous vitamin C , intravenous methylene blue , or blood transfusion , based upon the clinical situation .
11 DESCRIPTION Noxivent ™ ( nitric oxide gas ) is a drug administered by inhalation .
Nitric oxide , the active substance in Noxivent ™ , is a pulmonary vasodilator .
Noxivent ™ is a gaseous blend of nitric oxide and nitrogen ( 0 . 08 % and 99 . 92 % , respectively for 800 ppm ; 0 . 01 % and 99 . 99 % , respectively for 100 ppm ) .
Noxivent ™ is supplied in aluminum cylinders as a compressed gas under high pressure ( 2000 pounds per square inch gauge [ psig ] ) .
The structural formula of nitric oxide ( NO ) is shown below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Nitric oxide relaxes vascular smooth muscle by binding to the heme moiety of cytosolic guanylate cyclase , activating guanylate cyclase and increasing intracellular levels of cyclic guanosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate , which then leads to vasodilation .
When inhaled , nitric oxide selectively dilates the pulmonary vasculature , and because of efficient scavenging by hemoglobin , has minimal effect on the systemic vasculature .
Noxivent ™ appears to increase the partial pressure of arterial oxygen ( PaO 2 ) by dilating pulmonary vessels in better ventilated areas of the lung , redistributing pulmonary blood flow away from lung regions with low ventilation / perfusion ( V / Q ) ratios toward regions with normal ratios .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Effects on Pulmonary Vascular Tone in PPHN Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn ( PPHN ) occurs as a primary developmental defect or as a condition secondary to other diseases such as meconium aspiration syndrome ( MAS ) , pneumonia , sepsis , hyaline membrane disease , congenital diaphragmatic hernia ( CDH ) , and pulmonary hypoplasia .
In these states , pulmonary vascular resistance ( PVR ) is high , which results in hypoxemia secondary to right - to - left shunting of blood through the patent ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale .
In neonates with PPHN , Noxivent ™ improves oxygenation ( as indicated by significant increases in PaO 2 ) .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of nitric oxide has been studied in adults .
Absorption and Distribution Nitric oxide is absorbed systemically after inhalation .
Most of it traverses the pulmonary capillary bed where it combines with hemoglobin that is 60 % to 100 % oxygen - saturated .
At this level of oxygen saturation , nitric oxide combines predominantly with oxyhemoglobin to produce methemoglobin and nitrate .
At low oxygen saturation , nitric oxide can combine with deoxyhemoglobin to transiently form nitrosylhemoglobin , which is converted to nitrogen oxides and methemoglobin upon exposure to oxygen .
Within the pulmonary system , nitric oxide can combine with oxygen and water to produce nitrogen dioxide and nitrite , respectively , which interact with oxyhemoglobin to produce methemoglobin and nitrate .
Thus , the end products of nitric oxide that enter the systemic circulation are predominantly methemoglobin and nitrate .
Metabolism Methemoglobin disposition has been investigated as a function of time and nitric oxide exposure concentration in neonates with respiratory failure .
The methemoglobin ( MetHb ) concentration time profiles during the first 12 hours of exposure to 0 , 5 , 20 , and 80 ppm nitric oxide are shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Methemoglobin Concentration - Time Profiles Neonates Inhaling 0 , 5 , 20 or 80 ppm Nitric Oxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hours of Nitric Oxide Administration Methemoglobin concentrations increased during the first 8 hours of nitric oxide exposure .
The mean methemoglobin level remained below 1 % in the placebo group and in the 5 ppm and 20 ppm nitric oxide groups , but reached approximately 5 % in the 80 ppm nitric oxide group .
Methemoglobin levels > 7 % were attained only in patients receiving 80 ppm , where they comprised 35 % of the group .
The average time to reach peak methemoglobin was 10 ± 9 ( SD ) hours ( median , 8 hours ) in these 13 patients , but one patient did not exceed 7 % until 40 hours .
Elimination Nitrate has been identified as the predominant nitric oxide metabolite excreted in the urine , accounting for > 70 % of the nitric oxide dose inhaled .
Nitrate is cleared from the plasma by the kidney at rates approaching the rate of glomerular filtration .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No evidence of a carcinogenic effect was apparent , at inhalation exposures up to the recommended dose ( 20 ppm ) , in rats for 20 hr / day for up to two years .
Higher exposures have not been investigated .
Nitric oxide has demonstrated genotoxicity in Salmonella ( Ames Test ) , human lymphocytes , and after in vivo exposure in rats .
There are no animal or human studies to evaluate nitric oxide for effects on fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Treatment of Hypoxic Respiratory Failure ( HRF ) The efficacy of nitric oxide has been investigated in term and near - term newborns with hypoxic respiratory failure resulting from a variety of etiologies .
Inhalation of nitric oxide reduces the oxygenation index ( OI = mean airway pressure in cm H 2 O × fraction of inspired oxygen concentration [ FiO 2 ] x 100 divided by systemic arterial concentration in mm Hg [ PaO 2 ] ) and increases PaO 2 [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
NINOS Study : The Neonatal Inhaled Nitric Oxide Study ( NINOS ) was a double - blind , randomized , placebo controlled , multicenter trial in 235 neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure .
The objective of the study was to determine whether inhaled nitric oxide would reduce the occurrence of death and / or initiation of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ECMO ) in a prospectively defined cohort of term or near - term neonates with hypoxic respiratory failure unresponsive to conventional therapy .
Hypoxic respiratory failure was caused by meconium aspiration syndrome ( MAS ; 49 % ) , pneumonia / sepsis ( 21 % ) , idiopathic primary pulmonary hypertension of the newborn ( PPHN ; 17 % ) , or respiratory distress syndrome ( RDS ; 11 % ) .
Infants ≤ 14 days of age ( mean , 1 . 7 days ) with a mean PaO 2 of 46 mm Hg and a mean oxygenation index ( OI ) of 43 cm H 2 O / mm Hg were initially randomized to receive 100 % O 2 with ( n = 114 ) or without ( n = 121 ) 20 ppm nitric oxide for up to 14 days .
Response to study drug was defined as a change from baseline in PaO 2 30 minutes after starting treatment ( full response = > 20 mm Hg , partial = 10 - 20 mm Hg , no response = < 10 mm Hg ) .
Neonates with a less than full response were evaluated for a response to 80 ppm nitric oxide or control gas .
The primary results from the NINOS study are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Summary of Clinical Results from NINOS Study Control ( n = 121 ) NO ( n = 114 ) P value Death or ECMO * , † 77 ( 64 % ) 52 ( 46 % ) 0 . 006 Death 220 ( 17 % ) 16 ( 14 % ) 0 . 60 ECMO 66 ( 55 % ) 44 ( 39 % ) 0 . 014 * Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation † Death or need for ECMO was the study ' s primary end point Although the incidence of death by 120 days of age was similar in both groups ( NO , 14 % ; control , 17 % ) , significantly fewer infants in the nitric oxide group required ECMO compared with controls ( 39 % vs . 55 % , p = 0 . 014 ) .
The combined incidence of death and / or initiation of ECMO showed a significant advantage for the nitric oxide treated group ( 46 % vs . 64 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
The nitric oxide group also had significantly greater increases in PaO 2 and greater decreases in the OI and the alveolar - arterial oxygen gradient than the control group ( p < 0 . 001 for all parameters ) .
Significantly more patients had at least a partial response to the initial administration of study drug in the nitric oxide group ( 66 % ) than the control group ( 26 % , p < 0 . 001 ) .
Of the 125 infants who did not respond to 20 ppm nitric oxide or control , similar percentages of NO - treated ( 18 % ) and control ( 20 % ) patients had at least a partial response to 80 ppm nitric oxide for inhalation or control drug , suggesting a lack of additional benefit for the higher dose of nitric oxide .
No infant had study drug discontinued for toxicity .
Inhaled nitric oxide had no detectable effect on mortality .
The adverse events collected in the NINOS trial occurred at similar incidence rates in both treatment groups [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Follow - up exams were performed at 18 - 24 months for the infants enrolled in this trial .
In the infants with available follow - up , the two treatment groups were similar with respect to their mental , motor , audiologic , or neurologic evaluations .
CINRGI Study : This study was a double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled , multicenter trial of 186 term and near - term neonates with pulmonary hypertension and hypoxic respiratory failure .
The primary objective of the study was to determine whether nitric oxide would reduce the receipt of ECMO in these patients .
Hypoxic respiratory failure was caused by MAS ( 35 % ) , idiopathic PPHN ( 30 % ) , pneumonia / sepsis ( 24 % ) , or RDS ( 8 % ) .
Patients with a mean PaO 2 of 54 mm Hg and a mean OI of 44 cm H 2 O / mm Hg were randomly assigned to receive either 20 ppm nitric oxide ( n = 97 ) or nitrogen gas ( placebo ; n = 89 ) in addition to their ventilatory support .
Patients who exhibited a PaO 2 > 60 mm Hg and a pH < 7 . 55 were weaned to 5 ppm nitric oxide or placebo .
The primary results from the CINRGI study are presented in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Summary of Clinical Results froom CINRGI Study Placebo Nitric Oxide P value ECMO * , † 51 / 89 ( 57 % 30 / 97 ( 31 % ) < 0 . 001 Death 5 / 89 ( 6 % ) 3 / 97 ( 3 % ) 0 . 48 * Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation † ECMO was the primary end point of this study Significantly fewer neonates in the nitric oxide group required ECMO compared to the control group ( 31 % vs . 57 % , p < 0 . 001 ) .
While the number of deaths were similar in both groups ( nitric oxide , 3 % ; placebo , 6 % ) , the combined incidence of death and / or receipt of ECMO was decreased in the nitric oxide group ( 33 % vs . 58 % , p < 0 . 001 ) .
In addition , the nitric oxide group had significantly improved oxygenation as measured by PaO 2 , OI , and alveolar - arterial gradient ( p < 0 . 001 for all parameters ) .
Of the 97 patients treated with nitric oxide , 2 ( 2 % ) were withdrawn from study drug due to methemoglobin levels > 4 % .
The frequency and number of adverse events reported were similar in the two study groups [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In clinical trials , reduction in the need for ECMO has not been demonstrated with the use of inhaled nitric oxide in neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia ( CDH ) .
14 . 2 Ineffective in Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) In a randomized , double - blind , parallel , multicenter study , 385 patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) associated with pneumonia ( 46 % ) , surgery ( 33 % ) , multiple trauma ( 26 % ) , aspiration ( 23 % ) , pulmonary contusion ( 18 % ) , and other causes , with PaO 2 / FiO 2 < 250 mm Hg despite optimal oxygenation and ventilation , received placebo ( n = 193 ) or nitric oxide ( n = 192 ) , 5 ppm , for 4 hours to 28 days or until weaned because of improvements in oxygenation .
Despite acute improvements in oxygenation , there was no effect of nitric oxide on the primary endpoint of days alive and off ventilator support .
These results were consistent with outcome data from a smaller dose ranging study of nitric oxide ( 1 . 25 to 80 ppm ) .
Noxivent ™ is not indicated for use in ARDS .
14 . 3 Ineffective in Prevention of Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia ( BPD ) The safety and efficacy of nitric oxide for the prevention of chronic lung disease [ bronchopulmonary dysplasia , ( BPD ) ] in neonates ≤ 34 weeks gestational age requiring respiratory support has been studied in three large , multi - center , double - blind , placebo controlled clinical trials in a total of 2 , 149 preterm infants .
Of these , 1 , 068 received placebo , and 1 , 081 received inhaled nitric oxide at doses ranging from 5 - 20 ppm , for treatment periods of 7 - 24 days duration .
The primary endpoint for these studies was alive and without BPD at 36 weeks postmenstrual age ( PMA ) .
The need for supplemental oxygen at 36 weeks PMA served as a surrogate endpoint for the presence of BPD .
Overall , efficacy for the prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in preterm infants was not established .
There were no meaningful differences between treatment groups with regard to overall deaths , methemoglobin levels , or adverse events commonly observed in premature infants , including intraventricular hemorrhage , patent ductus arteriosus , pulmonary hemorrhage , and retinopathy of prematurity .
The use of nitric oxide for prevention of BPD in preterm neonates ≤ 34 weeks gestational age is not recommended .
Additional information regarding another clinical study in which efficacy was not demonstrated is approved for Mallinckrodt Hospital Products IP Limited ' s INOmax ® ( nitric oxide ) gas for Inhalation .
However , due to Mallinckrodt Hospital Products IP Limited ' s marketing exclusivity rights , this drug product is not labeled with that pediatric information .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Noxivent ™ ( nitric oxide ) is available in the following sizes : Size AD Portable aluminum cylinders containing 362 liters at STP of nitric oxide gas in 800 ppm concentration in nitrogen ( delivered volume 323 liters ) ( NDC 59579 - 102 - 02 ) Size AQ Aluminum cylinders containing 2154 liters at STP of nitric oxide gas in 800 ppm concentration in nitrogen ( delivered volume 2082 liters ) ( NDC 59579 - 102 - 01 ) Size AD Portable aluminum cylinders containing 362 liters at STP of nitric oxide gas in 100 ppm concentration in nitrogen ( delivered volume 323 liters ) ( NDC 59579 - 101 - 02 ) Size AQ Aluminum cylinders containing 2154 liters at STP of nitric oxide gas in 100 ppm concentration in nitrogen ( delivered volume 2082 liters ) ( NDC 59579 - 101 - 01 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
All regulations concerning handling of pressure vessels must be followed .
Protect the cylinders from shocks , falls , oxidizing and flammable materials , moisture , and sources of heat or ignition .
Occupational Exposure The exposure limit set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) for nitric oxide is 25 ppm , and for NO 2 the limit is 5 ppm .
Distributed by Linde Gas & Equipment 10 Riverview Drive Danbury , CT 06810 - 6268 © 2021 Linde Inc MDI - 7003 ( Rev . 01 ) Noxivent 102 - 01 NDC 59579 - 102 - 01 Noxivent ™ nitric oxide for inhalation 800 PPM Rx only CAUTION : HIGH PRESSURE GAS , CAN CAUSE RAPID SUFFOCATION WITHOUT WARNING .
Use equipment rated for cylinder pressure .
Store and use with adequate ventilation .
Secure cylinder in use and storage .
Close valve after each use and when empty .
USE IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROPRIATE SDS .
WARNING : Administration of this gas mixture may be hazardous or contraindicated .
For use only by or under the supervision of a licensed practioner who is experienced in the use and administration of gas mixtures , and is familiar with the indications , effects , dosages , methods , and frequency and duration of administration , and with the hazards , contraindications , and side effects and precautions to be taken .
FIRST AID : IF INHALED , remove person to fresh air .
If not breathing , give artificial respiration .
If breathing is difficult , give oxygen .
Get medical help .
RETURN WITH 25 PSIG .
TO BE REFILLED ONLY BY LICENSED FACILITY AUTHORIZED BY LINDE GAS & EQUIPMENT INC .
DO NOT REMOVE THIS PRODUCT LABEL .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Volume : 2082 Liters Linde Gas & Equipment Inc .
145 Shimersville Road Bethlehem , PA 18015 UN1956 COMPRESSED GAS , N . O . S . ( NITRIC OXIDE , NITROGEN ) 2 . 2 Net Weight : 2 . 5 kg MDB - 7800 - AQ ( Rev . 01 ) 59579 - 102 - 01 Linde Medipure By Linde [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Noxivent 102 - 02 NDC 59579 - 102 - 02 Noxivent ™ nitric oxide for inhalation 800 PPM Rx only CAUTION : HIGH PRESSURE GAS , CAN CAUSE RAPID SUFFOCATION WITHOUT WARNING .
Use equipment rated for cylinder pressure .
Store and use with adequate ventilation .
Secure cylinder in use and storage .
Close valve after each use and when empty .
USE IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPROPRIATE SDS .
WARNING : Administration of this gas mixture may be hazardous or contraindicated .
For use only by or under the supervision of a licensed practioner who is experienced in the use and administration of gas mixtures , and is familiar with the indications , effects , dosages , methods , and frequency and duration of administration , and with the hazards , contraindications , and side effects and precautions to be taken .
FIRST AID : IF INHALED , remove person to fresh air .
If not breathing , give artificial respiration .
If breathing is difficult , give oxygen .
Get medical help .
RETURN WITH 25 PSIG .
TO BE REFILLED ONLY BY LICENSED FACILITY AUTHORIZED BY LINDE GAS & EQUIPMENT INC .
DO NOT REMOVE THIS PRODUCT LABEL .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Volume : 323 Liters Linde Gas & Equipment Inc .
145 Shimersville Road Bethlehem , PA 18015 UN1956 COMPRESSED GAS , N . O . S . ( NITRIC OXIDE , NITROGEN ) 2 . 2 Net Weight : 0 . 5 kg MDB - 7801 - AD ( Rev . 01 ) 59579 - 102 - 02 Linde Medipure By Linde [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
