Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) , ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and jock itch ( tinea cruris ) • relieves itching , burning and scaling Warnings For external use only .
Extremely flammable : Content under pressure .
Keep away from fire , sparks and heated surfaces .
Do not punchure or incinerate container .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 oF may cause bursting .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm and 2 weeks for jock itch • irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if condition persist , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68º and 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients acetone , ethoxydiglycol , propylene glycol , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 74 % w / w ) , tocopheryl acetate Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Harmon FaceValues Continuous Spray !
Anti - Fungal Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Liquid Spray Relieves Burning , Itching and Scaling Helps Cure most Athlete ' s Foot Fungus NET WT 5 . 3 OZ ( 150 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
