1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE BRIUMVI is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , to include clinically isolated syndrome , relapsing - remitting disease , and active secondary progressive disease , in adults .
BRIUMVI is a CD20 - directed cytolytic antibody indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , to include clinically isolated syndrome , relapsing - remitting disease , and active secondary progressive disease , in adults ( 1 , 14 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Hepatitis B virus screening and quantitative serum immunoglobulin screening are required before first dose ( 2 . 1 ) .
• Pre - medicate with methylprednisolone ( or an equivalent corticosteroid ) and an antihistamine ( e . g . , diphenhydramine ) prior to each infusion ( 2 . 2 ) .
• Administer BRIUMVI by intravenous infusion .
• First Infusion : 150 mg intravenous infusion ( 2 . 3 ) • Second Infusion : 450 mg intravenous infusion two weeks after the first infusion ( 2 . 3 ) • Subsequent Infusions : 450 mg intravenous infusion 24 weeks after the first infusion and every 24 weeks thereafter ( 2 . 3 ) • Must be diluted in 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP prior to administration ( 2 . 3 , 2 . 6 ) .
• Monitor patients closely during and for at least one hour after the completion of the first two infusions .
Post - infusion monitoring of subsequent infusions is at physician discretion unless infusion reaction and / or hypersensitivity has been observed ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) .
2 . 1 Assessments Prior to First Dose of BRIUMVI Hepatitis B Virus Screening Prior to initiating BRIUMVI , perform Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) screening .
BRIUMVI is contraindicated in patients with active HBV confirmed by positive results for Hepatitis B surface antigen [ HBsAg ] and anti - HBV tests .
For patients who are negative for HBsAg and positive for Hepatitis B core antibody [ HBcAb + ] or are carriers of HBV [ HBsAg + ] , consult liver disease experts before starting and during treatment with BRIUMVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Serum Immunoglobulins Prior to initiating BRIUMVI , perform testing for quantitative serum immunoglobulins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
For patients with low serum immunoglobulins , consult immunology experts before initiating treatment with BRIUMVI .
Vaccinations Because vaccination with live - attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment and after discontinuation until B - cell repletion , administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks prior to initiation of BRIUMVI for live or live - attenuated vaccines and , whenever possible , at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of BRIUMVI for non - live vaccines [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
2 . 2 Assessment and Premedication Before Every Infusion Infection Assessment Prior to every infusion of BRIUMVI , determine whether there is an active infection .
In case of active infection , delay infusion of BRIUMVI until the infection resolves [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Recommended Premedication Pre - medicate with 100 mg of methylprednisolone administered intravenously ( or an equivalent oral dosage or equivalent corticosteroid ) approximately 30 minutes prior to each BRIUMVI infusion to reduce the frequency and severity of infusion reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Pre - medicate with an antihistamine ( e . g . , diphenhydramine ) administered orally or intravenously approximately 30 - 60 minutes prior to each BRIUMVI infusion to further reduce the frequency and severity of infusion reactions .
The addition of an antipyretic ( e . g . , acetaminophen ) may also be considered .
Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to each infusion with BRIUMVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Recommended Dosage and Dose Administration Administer BRIUMVI under the close supervision of an experienced healthcare professional with access to appropriate medical support to manage severe reactions , such as serious infusion reactions .
• First Infusion : 150 mg intravenous infusion • Second Infusion : 450 mg intravenous infusion administered two weeks after the first infusion • Subsequent Infusions : 450 mg intravenous infusion administered 24 weeks after the first infusion and every 24 weeks thereafter • Observe the patient for at least one hour after the completion of the first two infusions .
Post - infusion monitoring of subsequent infusions is at physician discretion unless infusion reaction and / or hypersensitivity has been observed in association with the current or any prior infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Table 1 : Recommended Dose , Infusion Rate , and Infusion Duration for MS 1 Withdraw and discard the required volume of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP from the infusion bag following the preparation instructions in Preparation and Administration ( 2 . 6 ) .
2 Infusion duration may take longer if the infusion is interrupted or slowed .
3 Administer the first subsequent infusion 24 weeks after the first infusion .
Dose ( mg ) and Volume ( mL ) of BRIUMVI Volume ( mL ) of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP1 Infusion Rate ( mL / hour ) Duration2 First Infusion 150 mg ( 6 mL ) 250 mL • Start at 10 mL per hour for the first 30 minutes • Increase to 20 mL per hour for the next 30 minutes • Increase to 35 mL per hour for the next hour • Increase to 100 mL per hour for the remaining 2 hours 4 hours Second Infusion ( 2 weeks later ) 450 mg ( 18 mL ) 250 mL • Start at 100 mL per hour for the first 30 minutes • Increase to 400 mL per hour for the remaining 30 minutes 1 hour Subsequent Infusions ( once every 24 weeks ) 3 450 mg ( 18 mL ) 250 mL • Start at 100 mL per hour for the first 30 minutes • Increase to 400 mL per hour for the remaining 30 minutes 1 hour 2 . 4 Delayed or Missed Doses If a planned infusion of BRIUMVI is missed , administer BRIUMVI as soon as possible ; do not wait until the next scheduled infusion .
Reset the infusion schedule to administer the next sequential infusion 24 weeks after the missed infusion is administered .
Infusions of BRIUMVI must be separated by at least 5 months .
2 . 5 Dosage Modifications Because of Infusion Reactions Dose modifications in response to infusion reactions depend on the severity .
Life - Threatening Infusion Reactions Immediately stop infusion and permanently discontinue BRIUMVI if there are signs of a life - threatening or disabling infusion reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Provide appropriate supportive treatment .
Severe Infusion Reactions Immediately interrupt the infusion and administer appropriate supportive treatment , as necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Restart the infusion only after all symptoms have resolved .
When restarting , begin at half of the infusion rate at the time of onset of the infusion reaction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
If this rate is tolerated , increase the rate as described in Table 1 .
This change in rate will increase the total duration of the infusion but not the total dose .
Mild to Moderate Infusion Reactions Reduce the infusion rate to half the rate at the onset of the infusion reaction and maintain the reduced rate for at least 30 minutes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If the reduced rate is tolerated , increase the rate as described in Table 1 .
This change in rate will increase the total duration of the infusion but not the total dose .
2 . 6 Preparation and Administration Preparation Only use 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to dilute BRIUMVI .
BRIUMVI must be prepared by a healthcare professional using aseptic technique .
Prepare the solution for infusion as follows : • BRIUMVI should be a clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not use the solution if discolored or if the solution contains discrete foreign particulate matter .
Preparation of Solution for First Infusion : • Prepare infusion bag for First Infusion ( 150 mg ) using one vial ( 150 mg / 6 mL ) of BRIUMVI .
• Withdraw 6 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP from the 250 mL infusion bag and discard .
• Withdraw 6 mL BRIUMVI solution from the vial .
• Add 6 mL ( 150 mg ) BRIUMVI into the infusion bag containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Preparation of Solution for Second Infusion and Subsequent Infusions : • Prepare infusion bag for Second Infusion ( 450 mg ) and Subsequent Infusions ( 450 mg ) using three vials ( 150 mg / 6 mL ) of BRIUMVI .
• Withdraw 18 mL 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP from the 250 mL infusion bag and discard .
• Withdraw 18 mL BRIUMVI solution from the vials ( 6 mL / vial ) .
• Add 18 mL ( 450 mg ) BRIUMVI into the infusion bag containing 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion .
Do not shake .
Administration of Infusion Solution Prior to the start of the intravenous infusion , the contents of the infusion bag should be at room temperature [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 7 ) ] .
Administer the diluted infusion solution through a dedicated line .
No incompatibilities between BRIUMVI and polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) or polyolefin ( PO ) bags and intravenous ( IV ) administration sets have been observed .
2 . 7 Storage Instructions for the Prepared Infusion Solution Use the prepared infusion solution immediately .
If the diluted solution is not administered immediately , store refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) for up to 24 hours .
Do not freeze .
If the diluted solution is stored refrigerated , allow it to equilibrate to room temperature prior to administration ( approximately 2 hours ) .
The diluted solution can be stored for an additional 8 hours at room temperature up to 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , which includes the equilibration time and infusion time .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 150 mg / 6 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow solution in a single - dose vial .
Injection : 150 mg / 6 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) in a single - dose vial ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS BRIUMVI is contraindicated in patients with : • Active HBV infection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • A history of life - threatening infusion reaction to BRIUMVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Active hepatitis B virus infection ( 4 ) • History of life - threatening infusion reaction to BRIUMVI ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Infusion Reactions : Management recommendations for infusion reactions depend on the type and severity of the reaction .
Permanently discontinue BRIUMVI if a life - threatening or disabling infusion reaction occurs ( 2 . 3 , 5 . 1 ) .
• Infections : Serious , including life - threatening and fatal infections , have occurred .
Delay BRIUMVI administration in patients with an active infection until the infection is resolved .
Vaccination with live - attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during treatment with BRIUMVI and after discontinuation , until B - cell repletion ( 5 . 2 ) .
• Reduction in Immunoglobulins : Monitor the level of immunoglobulins at the beginning , during , and after discontinuation of treatment with BRIUMVI , until B - cell repletion , and especially when recurrent serious infections are suspected .
Consider discontinuing BRIUMVI in patients with serious opportunistic or recurrent serious infections , and if prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia requires treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins ( 2 . 1 , 5 . 4 ) .
• Fetal Risk : May cause fetal harm .
Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception during treatment and for at least 6 months after stopping BRIUMVI ( 5 . 3 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) .
5 . 1 Infusion Reactions BRIUMVI can cause infusion reactions , which can include pyrexia , chills , headache , influenza - like illness , tachycardia , nausea , throat irritation , erythema , and an anaphylactic reaction [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
In Studies 1 and 2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , patients received methylprednisolone ( or an equivalent steroid ) , an antihistamine , and possibly other pre - medication ( i . e . , acetaminophen ) to reduce the risk of infusion reactions prior to each infusion .
The incidence of infusion reactions in Studies 1 and 2 in patients who received treatment with BRIUMVI was 48 % , with the highest incidence within 24 hours of the first infusion .
In Studies 1 and 2 , there were no fatal infusion reactions , but 0 . 6 % of patients treated with BRIUMVI experienced infusion reactions that were serious , some requiring hospitalization .
Observe patients treated with BRIUMVI for infusion reactions during the infusion and for at least one hour after the completion of the first two infusions .
Post - infusion monitoring of subsequent infusions is at physician discretion unless infusion reaction and / or hypersensitivity has been observed in association with the current or any prior infusion .
Inform patients that infusion reactions can occur up to 24 hours after the infusion .
Reducing the Risk of Infusion Reactions and Managing Infusion Reactions Administer pre - medication ( e . g . , methylprednisolone or an equivalent corticosteroid , and an antihistamine ) to reduce the frequency and severity of infusion reactions [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
The addition of an antipyretic ( e . g . , acetaminophen ) may also be considered [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Management recommendations for infusion depend on the type and severity of the reaction .
For life - threatening infusion reactions , stop the infusion immediately , permanently discontinue BRIUMVI , and provide appropriate supportive treatment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 5 ) ] .
For less severe infusion reactions , management may involve temporarily stopping the infusion , reducing the infusion rate , and / or administering symptomatic treatment .
5 . 2 Infections Serious , including life - threatening or fatal , bacterial and viral infections have been reported in patients receiving BRIUMVI .
An increased risk of infections , including serious and fatal bacterial , fungal , and new or reactivated viral infections , has been observed during and following completion of treatment with other anti - CD20 B - cell depleting therapies .
In Studies 1 and 2 , the overall rate of infections in MS patients treated with BRIUMVI was 56 % compared to 54 % in patients who were treated with teriflunomide .
The rate of serious infections was higher in patients treated with BRIUMVI compared to patients treated with teriflunomide ( 5 % vs 3 % , respectively ) .
There were 3 infection - related deaths that occurred in controlled clinical trials in patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis ( RMS ) , all in patients treated with BRIUMVI ; the infections leading to death were post - measles encephalitis , pneumonia , and post - operative salpingitis following an ectopic pregnancy .
In Studies 1 and 2 , the most common infections reported in patients treated with BRIUMVI included upper respiratory tract infection ( 45 % ) and urinary tract infection ( 10 % ) .
Delay BRIUMVI administration in patients with an active infection until the infection is resolved .
Possible Increased Risk of Immunosuppressant Effects with Other Immunosuppressants When initiating BRIUMVI after an immunosuppressive therapy or initiating an immunosuppressive therapy after BRIUMVI , consider the potential for increased immunosuppressive effects [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
BRIUMVI has not been studied in combination with other MS therapies .
Hepatitis B Virus ( HBV ) Reactivation HBV reactivation occurred in an MS patient treated with BRIUMVI in clinical trials .
Fulminant hepatitis , hepatic failure , and death caused by HBV reactivation have occurred in patients treated with anti - CD20 antibodies .
Perform HBV screening in all patients before initiation of treatment with BRIUMVI .
Do not start treatment with BRIUMVI in patients with active HBV confirmed by positive results for HBsAg and anti - HB tests .
For patients who are negative for surface antigen [ HBsAg ] and positive for HB core antibody [ HBcAb + ] or are carriers of HBV [ HBsAg + ] , consult a liver disease expert before starting and during treatment .
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) PML is an opportunistic viral infection of the brain caused by the JC virus ( JCV ) that typically only occurs in patients who are immunocompromised , and that usually leads to death or severe disability .
Although no cases of PML have occurred in MS patients treated with BRIUMVI , JCV infection resulting in PML has been observed in patients treated with other anti - CD20 antibodies and other MS therapies .
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML , withhold BRIUMVI and perform an appropriate diagnostic evaluation .
Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse , progress over days to weeks , and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs , disturbance of vision , and changes in thinking , memory , and orientation leading to confusion and personality changes .
Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) findings may be apparent before clinical signs or symptoms .
Cases of PML , diagnosed based on MRI findings and the detection of JCV DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid in the absence of clinical signs or symptoms specific to PML , have been reported in patients treated with other MS medications associated with PML .
Many of these patients subsequently became symptomatic with PML .
Therefore , monitoring with MRI for signs that may be consistent with PML may be useful , and any suspicious findings should lead to further investigation to allow for an early diagnosis of PML , if present .
Following discontinuation of another MS medication associated with PML , lower PML - related mortality and morbidity have been reported in patients who were initially asymptomatic at diagnosis compared to patients who had characteristic clinical signs and symptoms at diagnosis .
It is not known whether these differences are due to early detection and discontinuation of MS treatment or due to differences in disease in these patients .
If PML is confirmed , treatment with BRIUMVI should be discontinued .
Vaccinations Administer all immunizations according to immunization guidelines at least 4 weeks prior to initiation of BRIUMVI for live or live - attenuated vaccines and , whenever possible , at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of BRIUMVI for non - live vaccines .
BRIUMVI may interfere with the effectiveness of non - live vaccines .
The safety of immunization with live or live - attenuated vaccines during or following administration of BRIUMVI has not been studied .
Vaccination with live virus vaccines is not recommended during treatment with BRIUMVI and until B - cell repletion .
Vaccination of Infants Born to Mothers Treated with BRIUMVI During Pregnancy In infants of mothers exposed to BRIUMVI during pregnancy , do not administer live or live - attenuated vaccines before confirming the recovery of B - cell counts as measured by CD19 + B - cells .
Depletion of B - cells in these infants may increase the risks from live or live - attenuated vaccines .
Inactivated or non - live vaccines may be administered as indicated , prior to recovery from B - cell depletion , but an assessment of vaccine immune responses , including consultation with a qualified specialist , should be considered to determine whether a protective immune response was mounted [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Fetal Risk Based on data from animal studies , BRIUMVI may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Transient peripheral B - cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to mothers exposed to other anti - CD20 B - cell depleting antibodies during pregnancy .
A pregnancy test is recommended in females of reproductive potential prior to each infusion with BRIUMVI .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during BRIUMVI treatment and for 6 months after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Reduction in Immunoglobulins As expected with any B - cell depleting therapy , decreased immunoglobulin levels were observed with BRIUMVI .
Decrease in immunoglobulin M ( IgM ) was reported in 0 . 6 % of patients treated with BRIUMVI compared to none of the patients treated with teriflunomide in RMS clinical trials [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
No decline in immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) was observed at the end of the studies .
Data from clinical studies using other anti - CD20 monoclonal antibody therapies have shown an association between decreased levels of immunoglobulin M ( IgM < lower limit of normal [ LLN ] ) and G ( IgG < LLN ) and increased rates of serious infections .
Monitor the levels of quantitative serum immunoglobulins during treatment , especially in patients with opportunistic or recurrent infections , and after discontinuation of therapy until B - cell repletion .
Consider discontinuing BRIUMVI therapy if a patient with low immunoglobulins develops a serious opportunistic infection or recurrent infections , or if prolonged hypogammaglobulinemia requires treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Infusion Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Infections [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Reduction in Immunoglobulins [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) were infusion reactions and upper respiratory tract infections ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TG Therapeutics at 1 - 877 - 848 - 9462 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In active - controlled clinical trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) , 545 patients with RMS received BRIUMVI [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The most common adverse reactions in RMS trials ( incidence of at least 10 % ) were infusion reactions and upper respiratory tract infections .
Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in RMS trials ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) .
The most common cause of discontinuation in patients treated with BRIUMVI was infection ( 1 . 3 % ) .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions in Adult Patients with RMS with an Incidence of at least 5 % for BRIUMVI and Higher than Teriflunomide from Study 1 and Study 2 Adverse Reactions BRIUMVI 450 mg IVa ( N = 545 ) % Teriflunomide 14 mg PO ( N = 548 ) % a The first dose of BRIUMVI was given as an intravenous ( IV ) infusion of 150 mg .
The second dose was given as an IV infusion of 450 mg two weeks after the first infusion .
b Includes the following : nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , respiratory tract infection , respiratory tract infection viral , pharyngitis , rhinitis , sinusitis , acute sinusitis , tonsillitis , laryngitis , chronic sinusitis , viral pharyngitis , viral rhinitis , viral upper respiratory tract infection , chronic tonsillitis , pharyngitis streptococcal , sinusitis bacterial , and tonsillitis bacterial .
c Includes the following : bronchitis , pneumonia , tracheitis , tracheobronchitis , COVID - 19 pneumonia , bronchitis bacterial , and pneumonia viral .
d Includes several related terms .
Infusion reactions 48 12 Upper respiratory tract infections b 45 41 Lower respiratory tract infections c 9 7 Herpes virus - associated infections d 6 5 Pain in extremity 6 4 Insomnia 6 3 Fatigue 5 4 Infusion Reactions The incidence of infusion reactions was highest with the first infusion ( 43 % ) , decreasing with subsequent infusions ( 10 % with second , 8 % with third infusion ) .
Three ( 0 . 6 % ) patients treated with BRIUMVI reported serious infusion reactions .
Most frequently reported symptoms ( greater than 5 % ) included pyrexia , chills , headache , and influenza - like illness [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Laboratory Abnormalities Decreased Immunoglobulins BRIUMVI decreased total immunoglobulins with the greatest decline seen in IgM levels .
The proportion of BRIUMVI - treated patients at baseline reporting IgG , IgA , and IgM below the LLN was 6 . 3 % , 0 . 6 % , and 1 . 1 % , respectively .
Following treatment , the proportion of BRIUMVI - treated patients reporting IgG , IgA , and IgM below the LLN at 96 weeks was 6 . 5 % , 2 . 4 % , and 20 . 9 % , respectively .
Decreased Neutrophil Levels In Studies 1 and 2 , decreased neutrophil counts ( < LLN ) occurred in 15 % of BRIUMVI - treated patients compared to 22 % in teriflunomide - treated patients .
The majority of decreased neutrophil counts were observed once for a given patient treated with BRIUMVI , and were between 1 . 0 and 1 . 5 x 10 9 / L .
In RMS studies , 3 % of patients in the BRIUMVI group had neutrophil counts less than 1 . 0 x 10 9 / L , compared to 2 % of patients in the teriflunomide group .
Overall , 1 % of patients in the BRIUMVI group had neutrophil counts less than 0 . 5 x 10 9 / L , compared to 0 % of patients in the teriflunomide group , and these were not associated with an infection .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Immunosuppressive or Immune - Modulating Therapies The concomitant usage of BRIUMVI with other immune - modulating or immunosuppressant drugs , including immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids , may increase the risk of infection .
Consider the risk of additive immune system effects when co - administering immunosuppressive therapies with BRIUMVI .
When switching from therapies with immune effects , the duration and mechanism of action of these therapies should be taken into account because of potential additive immunosuppressive effects when initiating BRIUMVI .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no data on the developmental risk associated with the use of BRIUMVI in pregnant women .
Data from case reports of pregnancies occurring during clinical trials with BRIUMVI are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Although there are no data on ublituximab - xiiy , monoclonal antibodies can be actively transported across the placenta , and BRIUMVI may cause immunosuppression in the in - utero exposed infant [ see Clinical Considerations , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 , 12 . 2 ) ] .
Weekly intravenous administration of ublituximab - xiiy to pregnant monkeys during the first , second , or third trimester of pregnancy resulted in embryofetal loss ; administration during the second trimester resulted in external , skeletal , and visceral abnormalities in infants ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Transport of endogenous IgG antibodies across the placenta increases as pregnancy progresses and peaks during the third trimester .
There are no data on B - cell levels in human neonates following maternal exposure to BRIUMVI .
However , transient peripheral B - cell depletion and lymphocytopenia have been reported in infants born to mothers exposed to other anti - CD20 antibodies during pregnancy .
Avoid administering live vaccines to neonates and infants exposed to BRIUMVI in utero until B - cell recovery occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Data Animal Data Weekly intravenous administration of ublituximab - xiiy ( 0 or 30 mg / kg ) to separate groups of pregnant monkeys during the first , second , or third trimester of pregnancy produced a severe immunogenic response in dams , resulting in maternal morbidity and death and embryofetal loss .
Dosing was terminated in dams after only two doses during the third trimester because of multiple deaths in dams dosed during the first and second trimesters .
Ublituximab - related external , viscera , and skeletal abnormalities occurred in two infants from dams exposed during the second trimester of pregnancy .
Histopathology evaluations revealed minimal to moderate degeneration / necrosis in the brain .
Findings in infants included contractures and abnormal flexion of multiple limbs and tail , shortened mandible , elongate calvarium , enlargement of ears , and / or craniomandibular abnormalities which were attributed to brain necrosis .
Abnormalities were absent in infants of dams exposed during the first trimester of pregnancy .
A no - effect dose for adverse effects on embryofetal development in monkeys was not identified .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of ublituximab - xiiy in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of the drug on milk production .
Human IgG is excreted in human milk , and the potential for absorption of ublituximab - xiiy to lead to B - cell depletion in the infant is unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for BRIUMVI and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from BRIUMVI or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Pregnancy Testing Pregnancy testing is recommended for females of reproductive potential prior to each infusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Contraception Females Females of reproductive potential should use effective contraception while receiving BRIUMVI and for 6 months after the last dose of BRIUMVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of BRIUMVI did not include sufficient numbers of patients 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Ublituximab - xiiy is a recombinant chimeric monoclonal IgG1 antibody with reduced fucose content directed against CD20 - expressing B - cells .
The molecular weight of the antibody is approximately 147 kDa .
BRIUMVI ( ublituximab - xiiy ) injection for intravenous infusion is a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution .
Each mL of solution contains 25 mg ublituximab - xiiy , 0 . 4 mg hydrochloric acid , 0 . 7 mg polysorbate 80 , 9 . 0 mg sodium chloride , 6 . 4 mg sodium citrate , and Water for Injection , USP .
The pH is 6 . 5 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The precise mechanism by which ublituximab - xiiy exerts its therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is unknown , but is presumed to involve binding to CD20 , a cell surface antigen present on pre - B and mature B lymphocytes .
Following cell surface binding to B lymphocytes , ublituximab - xiiy results in cell lysis through mechanisms including antibody - dependent cellular cytolysis and complement - dependent cytolysis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics For B - cell counts , assays for CD19 + B - cells are used because the presence of ublituximab - xiiy interferes with the CD20 assay .
Treatment with BRIUMVI reduced CD19 + B - cell counts in blood by the first measured timepoint of 24 hours after infusion .
In clinical studies ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) , B - cell counts rose to above the LLN or above baseline counts between infusions of BRIUMVI at least one time in 30 of 545 ( 5 . 5 % ) of patients .
The median time for CD19 + B - cell counts to return to either baseline or LLN was 70 . 3 weeks ( range 0 . 1 - 75 . 1 weeks ) after the last BRIUMVI infusion .
Within 1 . 5 years after the last infusion , B - cell counts rose to either baseline or LLN in 58 % of patients .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Ublituximab - xiiy exposures increased proportionally over a dose range of 150 mg ( 0 . 33 times approved recommended dosage ) to 600 mg ( 1 . 33 times the approved recommended dosage ) in patients with RMS .
Following administration of the approved recommended dosage of BRIUMVI , the geometric mean steady - state AUC was 3000 mcg / mL per day ( CV = 28 % ) and the mean maximum concentration was 139 mcg / mL ( CV = 15 % ) .
Distribution The estimated central volume of distribution of ublituximab - xiiy was 3 . 18 L . Elimination The estimated mean terminal half - life of ublituximab - xiiy was 22 days .
Metabolism Ublituximab - xiiy is a protein for which the expected metabolic pathway is degradation to small peptides and amino acids by ubiquitous proteolytic enzymes .
Specific Populations There were no clinically meaningful differences in the pharmacokinetics of ublituximab - xiiy based on age , sex , body weight , anti - drug antibodies ( ADAs ) presence , mild renal impairment , or mild hepatic impairment .
The effect of moderate to severe renal impairment or moderate to severe hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ublituximab - xiiy is unknown .
Drug Interaction Studies No studies evaluating the drug interaction potential of ublituximab - xiiy have been conducted .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of ADAs is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of ADAs in the studies described below with the incidence of ADAs in other studies , including those of ublituximab - xiiy or of other ublituximab products .
In clinical studies ( Study 1 and Study 2 ) , serum samples from patients with RMS were tested for antibodies to ublituximab - xiiy during the 96 - week treatment period .
Of the 534 BRIUMVI - treated patients , 434 ( 81 % ) tested positive for ADAs at one or more timepoints , and 34 ( 6 . 4 % ) tested positive for neutralizing antibodies ( NAbs ) .
However , the assay used to measure NAbs is subject to interference from serum ublituximab - xiiy , possibly resulting in underestimation of the incidence of NAb formation and limiting the ability to characterize the clinical impact of NAbs .
The presence of ADAs had no observable impact on the safety or efficacy of BRIUMVI .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted to assess the carcinogenic potential of BRIUMVI .
Mutagenesis As an antibody , BRIUMVI is not expected to interact directly with DNA .
Impairment of Fertility No studies in animals have been conducted to assess the effects of BRIUMVI on male or female fertility .
No adverse effects on male or female reproductive organs were observed at the only dose level evaluated ( 30 mg / kg ) in a 26 - week intravenous toxicity study in monkeys , which was associated with plasma exposures ( C ave ) approximately 24 times that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( 450 mg ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of BRIUMVI was demonstrated in two randomized , double - blind , double - dummy , parallel group , active comparator - controlled clinical trials of identical design , in patients with RMS treated for 96 weeks [ Study 1 ( NCT03277261 ) and Study 2 ( NCT03277248 ) ] .
Patients were randomized to receive either BRIUMVI , given as an IV infusion of 150 mg for the first infusion , 450 mg two weeks after the first infusion for the second infusion / second dose , and 450 mg every 24 weeks after the first infusion for subsequent doses ( third infusion and beyond ) with oral placebo administered daily ; or teriflunomide , the active comparator , given orally as a 14 mg daily dose with IV placebo administered on the same schedule as BRIUMVI .
Both studies enrolled patients who had experienced at least one relapse in the previous year , two relapses in the previous two years , or had the presence of a T1 gadolinium ( Gd ) - enhancing lesion in the previous year .
Patients were also required to have an Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) score from 0 to 5 . 5 at baseline .
Neurological evaluations were performed at baseline , every 12 weeks , and at the time of a suspected relapse .
Brain MRI scans were performed at baseline and at Weeks 12 , 24 , 48 , and 96 .
The primary outcome of both Study 1 and Study 2 was the annualized relapse rate ( ARR ) over the treatment period .
Additional outcome measures included : the total number of MRI T1 Gd - enhancing lesions by Week 96 , the total number of new or enlarging MRI T2 hyperintense lesions by Week 96 , and time to confirmed disability progression for at least 12 weeks .
Disability progression was defined as an increase of greater than or equal to 1 . 0 point from the baseline EDSS score that was attributable to MS when the baseline score was 5 . 5 or less , and greater than or equal to 0 . 5 points when the baseline score was above 5 . 5 .
Confirmed disability progression was evaluated in a pooled analysis of Studies 1 and 2 .
Disability progression was considered confirmed when the increase in the EDSS was confirmed at a regularly scheduled visit 12 weeks after the initial documentation of neurological worsening .
In Study 1 , 274 patients were randomized to BRIUMVI and 275 to teriflunomide .
Of those randomized to BRIUMVI , 88 % completed the 96 - week treatment period ; of those randomized to teriflunomide , 92 % completed the 96 - week treatment period .
The baseline demographic and disease characteristics were balanced between the two treatment groups .
At baseline , the mean age was 37 years , 97 % were White , and 63 % were female .
In Study 2 , 272 patients were randomized to BRIUMVI and 273 to teriflunomide .
Of those randomized to BRIUMVI , 93 % completed the 96 - week treatment period ; of those randomized to teriflunomide , 88 % completed the 96 - week treatment period .
The baseline demographic and disease characteristics were balanced between the two treatment groups .
At baseline , the mean age was 35 years , 99 % were White , and 65 % were female .
In Study 1 and Study 2 , BRIUMVI significantly lowered the ARR compared to teriflunomide .
BRIUMVI statistically significantly reduced the number of T1 Gd - enhancing lesions and the number of new or enlarging T2 lesions in both studies compared to teriflunomide .
There was no statistically significant difference in disability progression confirmed at 12 weeks between BRIUMVI - treated and teriflunomide - treated patients .
Results for Study 1 and Study 2 are presented in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Key Clinical and MRI Endpoints in RMS Patients from Study 1 and Study 2 1 Based on Modified Intent - to - Treat ( mITT ) Population , defined as all randomized patients who received at least one infusion of study medication and had one baseline and post - baseline efficacy assessment .
Study 1 : BRIUMVI ( N = 271 ) , teriflunomide ( N = 274 ) .
Study 2 : BRIUMVI ( N = 272 ) , teriflunomide ( N = 272 ) .
2 Data prospectively pooled from Study 1 and Study 2 : BRIUMVI ( N = 543 ) , teriflunomide ( N = 546 ) .
3 Defined as an increase of 1 . 0 point or more from the baseline EDSS score for patients with baseline score of 5 . 5 or less , or 0 . 5 point or more when the baseline score is greater than 5 . 5 , Kaplan - Meier estimates at Week 96 .
4 Based on Hazard Ratio .
5 Based on MRI - mITT population ( mITT patients who have baseline and post - baseline MRI ) .
Study 1 : BRIUMVI ( N = 265 ) , teriflunomide ( N = 270 ) .
Study 2 : BRIUMVI ( N = 272 ) , teriflunomide ( N = 267 ) .
6 At Week 96 .
7 BRIUMVI dosing by intravenous infusion : first dose of 150 mg , second dose 450 mg two weeks after the first ; subsequent doses 450 mg every 24 weeks ; teriflunomide dosing : 14 mg by mouth once daily .
Study 1 Study 2 Endpoints BRIUMVI 450 mg7 Teriflunomide 14 mg7 BRIUMVI 450 mg7 Teriflunomide 14 mg7 Clinical Endpoints1 Annualized Relapse Rate ( Primary Endpoint ) Relative Reduction 0 . 076 0 . 188 0 . 091 0 . 178 59 % ( p < 0 . 001 ) 49 % ( p = 0 . 002 ) Proportion of Patients with 12 - week Confirmed Disability Progression 2 , 3 Risk Reduction ( Pooled Analysis ) 4 5 . 2 % BRIUMVI vs . 5 . 9 % teriflunomide 16 % ( p = 0 . 510 ) MRI Endpoints5 Mean number of T1 Gd - enhancing lesions per MRI 6 Relative Reduction 0 . 016 0 . 491 0 . 009 0 . 250 97 % ( p < 0 . 001 ) 97 % ( p < 0 . 001 ) Mean number of new or enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions per MRI 6 Relative Reduction 0 . 213 2 . 789 0 . 282 2 . 831 92 % ( p < 0 . 001 ) 90 % ( p < 0 . 001 ) In exploratory analyses of Study 1 and Study 2 , a similar effect of BRIUMVI on the ARR was observed in subgroups defined by gender , prior non - steroid MS therapy , baseline disability ( EDSS 3 . 5 or lower versus greater than 3 . 5 ) , the number of relapses in the 2 years prior to study enrollment , and number of Gd - enhancing lesions at baseline .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied BRIUMVI ( ublituximab - xiiy ) injection is a sterile , clear to opalescent , colorless to slightly yellow , preservative - free solution for intravenous use supplied as a carton containing one 150 mg / 6 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) single - dose vial ( NDC 73150 - 150 - 06 ) .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store BRIUMVI vials refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the outer carton to protect from light .
Do not freeze .
Do not shake .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Infusion Reactions Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of infusion reactions and that infusion reactions can occur up to 24 hours after infusion .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of infusion reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Infection Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider for any signs of infection during treatment or after the last infusion .
Signs can include fever , chills , constant cough , or dysuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that BRIUMVI may cause reactivation of hepatitis B infection and that monitoring will be required if they are at risk [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Advise patients that PML has happened with drugs that are similar to BRIUMVI and may happen with BRIUMVI .
Inform the patient that PML is characterized by a progression of deficits and usually leads to death or severe disability over weeks or months .
Instruct the patient of the importance of contacting their doctor if they develop any symptoms suggestive of PML .
Inform the patient that typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse , progress over days to weeks , and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs , disturbance of vision , and changes in thinking , memory , and orientation leading to confusion and personality changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Vaccination Advise patients to complete any required live or live - attenuated vaccinations at least 4 weeks and , whenever possible , non - live vaccinations at least 2 weeks prior to initiation of BRIUMVI .
Administration of live - attenuated or live vaccines is not recommended during BRIUMVI treatment and until B - cell recovery [ see Warnings and Precaution ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Fetal Risk Advise pregnant women and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus .
Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with BRIUMVI and for 6 months after the last BRIUMVI dose .
Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are pregnant during treatment with BRIUMVI [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 , 8 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : TG Therapeutics , Inc .
3020 Carrington Mill Blvd Morrisville , NC 27560 U . S . License No . 2090 BRIUMVI is a trademark of TG Therapeutics , Inc .
© TG Therapeutics , Inc . 2021 - 2022 .
All rights reserved .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Approved : 12 / 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE BRIUMVI ™ ( bree - UM - vee ) ( ublituximab - xiiy ) injection , for intravenous use What is the most important information I should know about BRIUMVI ?
BRIUMVI can cause serious side effects , including : • Infusion reactions .
Infusion reactions are one of the most common side effects of BRIUMVI .
Infusion reactions can be serious and may require you to be hospitalized .
You will be monitored during your infusion and may be monitored after each infusion of BRIUMVI for signs and symptoms of an infusion reaction .
Tell your healthcare provider if you get any of these symptoms : • fever • chills • headache • flu - like symptoms • fast heartbeat • hives • itchy skin • dizziness • feeling faint • swelling of tongue or throat • trouble breathing • wheezing • nausea • abdominal pain • throat irritation • redness of the face or skin These infusion reactions can happen over 24 hours after your infusion .
It is important that you call your healthcare provider right away if you get any of the signs or symptoms listed above after each infusion .
If you get an infusion reaction , your healthcare provider may need to stop or slow down the rate of your infusion .
• Infections .
Infections are a common side effect , and upper respiratory tract infections are one of the most common side effects of BRIUMVI .
BRIUMVI increases your risk of getting infections caused by bacteria or viruses that may be life - threatening or cause death .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have an infection or have any of the following signs of infection including fever , chills , a cough that does not go away , or painful urination .
Your healthcare provider should delay your treatment with BRIUMVI until your infection is gone .
• Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) reactivation : Before starting treatment with BRIUMVI , your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check for hepatitis B viral infection .
If you have ever had hepatitis B virus infection , the hepatitis B virus may become active again during or after treatment with BRIUMVI .
Hepatitis B virus becoming active again ( called reactivation ) may cause serious liver problems including liver failure or death .
Your healthcare provider will monitor you if you are at risk for hepatitis B virus reactivation during treatment and after you stop receiving BRIUMVI .
• Weakened immune system : BRIUMVI taken before or after other medicines that weaken the immune system could increase your risk of getting infections .
• Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ( PML ) : PML may happen with BRIUMVI .
PML is a rare , serious brain infection caused by a virus that may get worse over days or weeks .
PML can result in death or severe disability .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you have any new or worsening neurologic signs or symptoms .
These symptoms may include weakness on one side of your body , loss of coordination in arms and legs , vision problems , changes in thinking and memory which may lead to confusion , and personality changes .
• Low immunoglobulins : BRIUMVI may cause a decrease in some types of antibodies .
Your healthcare provider will do blood tests to check your blood immunoglobulin levels .
What is BRIUMVI ?
BRIUMVI is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , including : • clinically isolated syndrome • relapsing - remitting disease • active secondary progressive disease It is not known if BRIUMVI is safe or effective in children .
Do not receive BRIUMVI if you : • have active hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection .
• have had a life - threatening allergic reaction to BRIUMVI .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have had an allergic reaction to BRIUMVI .
See “ What are the ingredients in BRIUMVI ? ”
for a complete list of ingredients in BRIUMVI .
Before receiving BRIUMVI , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have or think you have an infection .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about BRIUMVI ? ”
• take or plan to take medicines that affect your immune system .
These medicines may increase your risk of getting an infection .
• have ever had hepatitis B or are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus .
• have had a recent vaccination or are scheduled to receive any vaccinations .
• You should receive any required ‘ live ’ or ‘ live - attenuated ’ vaccines at least 4 weeks before you start treatment with BRIUMVI .
You should not receive ‘ live ’ or ‘ live - attenuated ’ vaccines while you are being treated with BRIUMVI and until your healthcare provider tells you that your immune system is no longer weakened .
• When possible , you should receive any ‘ non - live ’ vaccines at least 2 weeks before you start treatment with BRIUMVI .
If you would like to receive any non - live vaccines while you are being treated with BRIUMVI , talk to your healthcare provider .
• If you have a baby and you received BRIUMVI during your pregnancy , it is important to tell your baby ' s healthcare provider about receiving BRIUMVI so they can decide when your baby should be vaccinated .
• are pregnant , think that you might be pregnant , or plan to become pregnant .
BRIUMVI may harm your unborn baby .
You should use birth control ( contraception ) during treatment with BRIUMVI and for at least 6 months after your last infusion of BRIUMVI .
Talk with your healthcare provider about what birth control method is right for you during this time .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if BRIUMVI passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take BRIUMVI .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How will I receive BRIUMVI ?
• BRIUMVI is given through a needle placed in your vein ( intravenous infusion ) in your arm .
• Your healthcare provider may do a pregnancy test before each infusion of BRIUMVI .
• Before treatment with BRIUMVI , you will receive a corticosteroid and an antihistamine medicine to help reduce the risk of infusion reactions by making them less frequent and less severe .
You may also receive other medicines to help reduce the risk of an infusion reaction .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about BRIUMVI ? ”
• Your first dose of BRIUMVI will last about 4 hours .
• Your second dose of BRIUMVI will be given 2 weeks after your first dose .
This infusion will last about 1 hour .
• Your next doses of BRIUMVI will be given as 1 infusion every 24 weeks .
These infusions will last about 1 hour .
What are the possible side effects of BRIUMVI ?
See “ What is the most important information I should know about BRIUMVI ? ”
The most common side effects of BRIUMVI include : • Infusion reactions , upper and lower respiratory tract infections , herpes infections , extremity pain , insomnia , and fatigue .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about BRIUMVI ? ”
These are not all the possible side effects of BRIUMVI .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of BRIUMVI .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about BRIUMVI that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in BRIUMVI ?
Active ingredient : ublituximab - xiiy .
Inactive ingredients : hydrochloric acid , polysorbate 80 , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , Water for Injection , USP .
BRIUMVI is a trademark of TG Therapeutics , Inc . © TG Therapeutics , Inc . 2021 - 2022 .
All rights reserved .
Manufactured by : TG Therapeutics , Inc . , 3020 Carrington Mill Blvd , Morrisville , NC 27560 U . S . License No . 2090 For more information , go to www . briumvi . com or call 1 - 877 - 848 - 9462 Principal Display Panel - 6 mL Carton Label NDC 73150 - 150 - 06 Briumvi ™ ( ublituximab - xiiy ) injection 150 mg / 6 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution .
Discard Unused Portion .
Attention : Dispense the enclosed Medication Guide to each patient .
Rx only Contains one 6 mL single - dose vial .
TG Therapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 6 mL Vial Label NDC 73150 - 150 - 06 Briumvi ™ ( ublituximab - xiiy ) injection Rx only 150 mg / 6 mL ( 25 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion After Dilution .
Single - Dose Vial .
Discard Unused Portion .
No preservative .
Dosage : See prescribing information .
TG Therapeutics [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
