Rx only .
For Dermatological Use only .
Not for Ophthalmic , Oral or Intravaginal Use .
DESCRIPTION * Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % specially formulates 12 % lactic acid , as ammonium lactate to provide a cream pH of 4 . 5 to 5 . 5 .
Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % also contains cetyl alcohol , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , laureth - 4 , light mineral oil , magnesium aluminum silicate , methylcellulose , methylparaben , polyoxyethylene - 100 stearate , polyoxyl stearate type II , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water and for pH adjustment : lactic acid .
Lactic acid is a racemic mixture of 2 - hydroxypropanoic acid and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Lactic acid is an alpha - hydroxy acid .
It is a normal constituent of tissues and blood .
The alpha - hydroxy acids ( and their salts ) are felt to act as humectants when applied to the skin .
This property may influence hydration of the stratum corneum .
In addition , lactic acid , when applied to the skin , may act to decrease corneocyte cohesion .
The mechanism ( s ) by which this is accomplished is not yet known .
An in vitro study of percutaneous absorption of ammonium lactate cream using human cadaver skin indicates that approximately 6 . 1 % of the material was absorbed after 68 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % is indicated for the treatment of ichthyosis vulgaris and xerosis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the label ingredients .
WARNING Sun exposure to areas of the skin treated with Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % should be minimized or avoided ( see PRECAUTIONS section ) .
The use of Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % should be discontinued if any hypersensitivity is observed .
PRECAUTIONS General For external use only .
Stinging or burning may occur when applied to skin with fissures , erosions , or that is otherwise abraded ( for example , after shaving the legs ) .
Caution is advised when used on the face because of the potential for irritation .
The potential for post - inflammatory hypo - or hyperpigmentation has not been studied .
Information for Patients Patients using Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician , and should not be used for any disorder other than for which it was prescribed .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes , lips , or mucous membranes .
• Patients should minimize or avoid use of this product on areas of the skin that may be exposed to natural or artificial sunlight , including the face .
If sun exposure is unavoidable , clothing should be worn to protect the skin .
• This medication may cause transient stinging or burning when applied to skin with fissures , erosions , or abrasions ( for example , after shaving the legs ) .
• If the skin condition worsens with treatment , the medication should be promptly discontinued .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility The topical treatment of CD - 1 mice with 12 % , 21 % or 30 % ammonium lactate cream for two years did not produce a significant increase in dermal or systemic tumors in the absence of increased exposure to ultraviolet radiation .
The maximum systemic exposure of the mice in this study was 0 . 7 times the maximum possible systemic exposure in humans .
However , a long - term photocarcinogenicity study in hairless albino mice suggested that topically applied 12 % ammonium lactate cream enhanced the rate of ultraviolet light - induced skin tumor formation .
The mutagenic potential of ammonium lactate cream was evaluated in the Ames assay and in the mouse in vivo micronucleus assay , both of which were negative .
In dermal Segment I and III studies with ammonium lactate cream there were no effects observed in fertility or pre - or post - natal development parameters in rats at dose levels of 300 mg / kg / day ( 1800 mg / m 2 / day ) , approximately 0 . 4 times the human topical dose .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects Animal reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 0 . 7 and 1 . 5 times the human dose , respectively ( 600 mg / kg / day , corresponding to 3600 mg / m 2 / day in the rat and 7200 mg / m 2 / day in the rabbit ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ammonium lactate cream .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Although lactic acid is a normal constituent of blood and tissues , it is not known to what extent this drug affects normal lactic acid levels in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % have been established in pediatric patients as young as 2 years old .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled clinical trials of patients with ichthyosis vulgaris , the most frequent adverse reactions in patients treated with Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % were rash ( including erythema and irritation ) and burning / stinging .
Each was reported in approximately 10 to 15 % of patients .
In addition , itching was reported in approximately 5 % of patients .
In controlled clinical trials of patients with xerosis , the most frequent adverse reactions in patients treated with Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % were transient burning , in about 3 % of patients , stinging , dry skin and rash , each reported in approximately 2 % of patients .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to the affected areas and rub in thoroughly .
Use twice daily or as directed by a physician .
HOW SUPPLIED Ammonium Lactate Cream , 12 % is available in cartons of 280 g ( 2 - 140 g laminate tubes ) NDC : 70518 - 3619 - 00 PACKAGING : 2 in 1 CARTON , 140 g in 1 TUBE TYPE 0 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Ammonium Lactate GENERIC : Ammonium Lactate DOSAGE : CREAM ADMINSTRATION : TOPICAL NDC : 70518 - 3619 - 0 COLOR : white PACKAGING : 140 g in 1 TUBE OUTER PACKAGING : 2 in 1 CARTON ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • Ammonium Lactate 120 mg in 1 g INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • cetyl alcohol • glycerin • glyceryl monostearate • laureth - 4 • light mineral oil • magnesium aluminum silicate • methylparaben • propylparaben • PEG - 100 stearate • polyoxyl 40 stearate • propylene glycol • water [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
