Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr , USP 5 mg Guaifenesin , USP 100 mg Purposes Cough suppressant Expectorant Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ’ s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • do not give more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • use only with enclosed dose cup .
Do not use with any other dosing device .
• mL = milliliter children 6 to under 12 years 5 mL - 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 to under 6 years 2 . 5 mL - 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients organic agave syrup , organic blueberry flavor , natural citrus extract , natural flavor , purified water Questions ?
1 - 855 - 436 - 3921 SHAKE WELL before each use .
Bottle is safety sealed with a perforated band around the bottle .
DO NOT use if bottle seal is disturbed or missing .
Patent Pending | Distributed by : Genexa Inc .
Atlanta , GA 30068 | genexa . com Made in the USA with globally sourced ingredients NDC 69676 - 0037 - 9 Genexa MEDICINE MADE CLEAN Kids ' Cough & Chest Congestion Dextromethorphan HBr | Guaifenesin Cough Suppressant - Expectorant Cough Mucus Chest Congestion Medicine made clean Same effective active ingredients , but no artificial fillers .
Organic Blueberry Flavor 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) Liquid Dosing cup included [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
