Active Ingredients Zinc Oxide 12 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only .
Do not use Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • Reapply : • at least every 2 hours • Use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
• Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 am - 2 pm , wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor Inactive Ingredients Allantoin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Bisabolol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Caprylic / Capric Tryglyceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Ceteth - 20 , Cetyl Alcohol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Glycerin , Glyceryl Stearate , Hexyylene Glycol , Isoamyl Laurate , Jojoba Esters , Lecithin , Lysolecithin , Methylpropanediol , PEG - 75 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Phenylpropanol , Polyglyceryl - 4 Diisostearate / Polyhydroxystearate / Sebacate , Pullulan , Pyrus Malus ( Apple ) Fruite Extract , Sclerotium Gum .
Silica , Sodium Hydroxide , Squalene , Steareth - 20 , Tetrasodium Glutamate Diacetate , Tocopherol , Water , Xanthan Gum .
Other Information Protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Questions or Comments ?
Contact our specialists at ( 800 ) 916 - 7690 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
