Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 . 0 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses For temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • detergents • cosmetics • jewelry • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • external feminine , genital and anal itching .
Other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor .
Warnings For external use only Do not use • for the treatment of diaper rash , consult a doctor .
• for external genital itching if you have a vaginal discharge , consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor .
• for external genital , feminine and anal itching do not exceed the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor .
In case of bleeding , stop use , consult a doctor .
• do not put this product into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • If condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years and older • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age • do not use .
Consult a doctor .
For external anal itching : • adults : when practical cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly or by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product .
• children under 12 years of age with external anal itching : consult a doctor .
Other information store at a controlled room temperature 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) .
Inactive ingredients Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , Aluminum Sulfate , Beeswax , Calcium acetate , Cetearly alcohol , Dextrin , Glycerin , Maltodextrin , Methylparaben , Mineral oil , Petrolatum , propylparaben , Sodium cetearyl sulfate , Sodium lauryl sulfate , Water ( purified ) Principal Display Panel – Packet Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] CVS Health NDC 69842 - 155 - 10 Cortisone MAXIMUM STRENGTH Net Wt .
0 . 05 oz ( 1 . 5 g ) Hydrocortisone Cream USP 1 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel – Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] compare to the active ingredient in Cortisone 10 ® CVS Health NDC 69842 - 155 - 10 Cortisone MAXIMUM STRENGTH Net Wt .
1 . 2 oz ( 36 g ) Hydrocortisone Cream USP 1 % [ MULTIMEDIA ]
