Topical Anesthetic For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Rx only DESCRIPTION Contains Lidocaine Hydrochloride .
Lidocaine is chemically designated as acetamide , 2 - ( diethylamino ) - N - ( 2 , 6 - dimethylphenyl ) , and has the following structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of Lido - K Lotion contains ACTIVE : Lidocaine HCl 30 mg in a lotion base of INACTIVES : Mineral Oil , Petrolatum , Cetyl Alcohol , Stearic Acid , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Lexemul , Water , Sodium Hydroxide ( 50 % ) , Aluminum Sulfate , and Calcium Acetate [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY MECHANISM OF ACTION Lidocaine stabilizes the neuronal membrane by inhibiting the ionic fluxes required for initiation and conduction of impulses , thereby effecting local anesthetic action .
PHARMACOKINETICS Lidocaine may be absorbed following topical administration to mucous membranes , its rate and extent of absorption depending upon the specific site of application , duration of exposure , concentration and total dosage .
In general , the rate of absorption of local anesthetic agents following topical application occurs most rapidly after intratracheal administration .
Lidocaine is also well - absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract , but little intact drug appears in the circulation because of biotransformation in the liver .
Lidocaine is metabolized rapidly by the liver , and metabolites and unchanged drug are excreted by the kidneys .
Biotransformation includes oxidative N - dealkylation , ring hydroxylation , cleavage of the amide linkage , and conjugation .
N - dealkylation , a major pathway of biotransformation , yields the metabolites monoethylglycinexylidide and glycinexylidide .
The pharmacological / toxicological actions of these metabolites are similar to , but less potent than , those of Lidocaine .
Approximately 90 % of Lidocaine administered is excreted in the form of various metabolites , and less than 10 % is excreted unchanged .
The primary metabolite in urine is a conjugate of 4 - hydroxy - 2 , 6 - dimethylaniline .
The plasma binding of Lidocaine is dependent on drug concentration , and the fraction bound decreases with increasing concentration .
At concentrations of 1 - 4 g of free base per mL , 60 to 80 percent of Lidocaine is protein bound .
Binding is also dependent on the plasma concentration of the alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein .
Lidocaine crosses the blood - brain and placental barriers , presumably by passive diffusion .
Studies of Lidocaine metabolism following intravenous bolus injections have shown that the elimination half - life of this agent is typically 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
Because of the rapid rate at which Lidocaine is metabolized , any condition that affects liver function may alter Lidocaine kinetics .
The half - life may be prolonged two - fold or more in patients with liver dysfunction .
Renal dysfunction does not affect Lidocaine kinetics but may increase the accumulation of metabolites .
Factors such as acidosis and the use of CNS stimulants and depressants affect the CNS levels of Lidocaine required to produce overt systemic effects .
Objective adverse manifestations become increasingly apparent with increasing venous plasma levels above 6 g free base per mL .
In the rhesus monkey , arterial blood levels of 18 - 21 g / ml have been shown to be threshold for convulsive activity .
INDICATIONS Topical anesthetic for use on intact skin for pain and local analgesic .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Traumatized mucosa , secondary bacterial infection of the area of proposed application and known hypersensitivity to any of the components .
Lido - K is contraindicated in patients with a known history of hypersensitivity to local anesthetics of the amide type or to any other component of the product .
WARNINGS For external use only .
Not for ophthalmic use .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips or mucous membranes .
Do not use on areas of broken skin .
If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue use .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Application of lidocaine to larger areas or for longer times than those recommended could result in sufficient absorption of lidocaine resulting in serious adverse effects .
Patients treated with class III anti - arrhythmic drugs ( e . g . , amiodarone , bretylium , sotalol , dofetilide ) should be under close surveillance and ECG monitoring considered , because cardiac effects may be additive .
Lidocaine should be used with extreme caution in the presence of sepsis or severely traumatized mucosa in the area of application , since under such conditions there is the potential for rapid systemic absorption .
PRECAUTIONS If irritation or sensitivity occurs or infection appears , discontinue treatment and institute appropriate therapy .
Lido - K should be used with caution in ill , elderly , debilitated patients and children who may be more sensitive to the systemic effects of lidocaine .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS AND IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY Studies of Lidocaine in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic and mutagenic potential of the effect on fertility have not been conducted .
USE IN PREGNANCY Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats at doses up to 6 . 6 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus caused by Lidocaine .
There are , however , no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women .
Animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
General consideration should be given to this fact before administering Lidocaine to women of childbearing potential , especially during early pregnancy when maximum organogenesis takes place .
Lidocaine does pass very quickly through the placenta so doctors and experts suggest only using the anesthetic for established medical needs only as directed by your physician .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this drug is administered to a nursing mother .
Your doctor and you will decide if the benefits outweigh the risk of using lidocaine .
PEDIATRIC USE Dosage in pediatric patients would be reduced commensurate with age , body weight and physical condition .
If your child becomes very dizzy , excessively sleepy , or develops duskiness of the face or lips after applying lidocaine lotion , remove the lotion and contact your physician at once .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During or immediately after treatment , the skin at the site of treatment may develop erythema or edema or maybe the locus of abnormal sensation .
Adverse experiences following the administration of lidocaine are similar in nature to those observed with other amide local anesthetic agents .
These adverse experiences are , in general , dose - related and may result from high plasma levels caused by excessive dosage or rapid absorption , or may result from a hypersensitivity , idiosyncrasy or diminished tolerance on the part of the patient .
Serious adverse experiences are generally systemic in nature .
The following types are those most commonly reported : Central nervous system CNS manifestations are excitatory and / or depressant and may be characterized by lightheadedness , nervousness , apprehension , euphoria , confusion , dizziness , drowsiness , tinnitus , blurred or double vision , vomiting , sensations of heat , cold or numbness , twitching , tremors , convulsions , unconsciousness , respiratory depression and arrest .
The excitatory manifestations may be very brief or may not occur at all , in which case the first manifestation of toxicity may be drowsiness merging into unconsciousness and respiratory arrest .
Drowsiness following the administration of lidocaine is usually an early sign of a high blood level of the drug and may occur as a consequence of rapid absorption .
Cardiovascular system Cardiovascular manifestations are usually depressant and are characterized by bradycardia , hypotension , and cardiovascular collapse , which may lead to cardiac arrest .
Allergic Allergic reactions are characterized by cutaneous lesions , urticaria , edema or anaphylactoid reactions .
Allergic reactions may occur as a result of sensitivity either to the local anesthetic agent or to other components in the formulation .
Allergic reactions as a result of sensitivity to lidocaine are extremely rare and , if they occur , should be managed by conventional means .
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a thin film to the affected area two or three times daily or as directed by a physician .
Caution should be exercised , particularly when employing large amounts , since the incidence of adverse effects is directly proportional to the total dose of local anesthetic agent administered .
HOW SUPPLIED Lido - K Lotion is supplied in the following size : Size NDC # 6 oz ( 177 mL ) Bottle 70350 - 2618 - 6 KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATION OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
STORAGE Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Solutech Pharmaceuticals LLC Peoria , AZ 85345 Rx only PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 177 mL Bottle Label NDC 70350 - 2618 - 6 TOPICAL ANESTHETIC LIDO - K LIDOCAINE HCL 3 % LOTION Smooth Easily Spreadable Rx Only Solutech PHARMACEUTICALS Net WT .
6 OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
