Stannous fluoride 0 . 454 % w / w ( 0 . 15 % w / v fluoride ion ) Anticavity , Antigingivitis , Antihypersensitivity aids in teh prevention of dental cavities * helps interfere with the harmful effects of plaque associated with gingivitis * builds increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold , heat , acids , sweets or contact When using this product , if irritation occurs discontinue use .
Stop use and ask a dentist if : the problem persists or worsens .
Sensitive teeth may indicate a serious problem that may need prompt care by a dentist * pain / sensitivity still persists after 4 weeks of use * gingivitis , bleeding , or redness persists for more than 2 weeks * you have painful or swollen gums , pus from the gum line , loose teeth , or increasing space between teeth .
These may be signs or symptoms of periodontitis , a serious form of gum disease .
Keep out of reach of children .
If more than used for brushing is accidentally swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
adults and children 12 years of age and older : apply at least a 1 - inch strip of the product onto a soft bristle toothbrush * brush teeth thoroughly for at least 1 minute twice a day ( morning and evening ) , and not more than 3 times a day , or as recommended by a dentist or doctor .
Make sure to brush all sensitive areas of the teeth .
Minimize swallowing .
Spit out after brushing .
* children under 12 years of age : Consult a dentist or doctor .
products containing stannous fluoride may produce surface staining of the teeth .
Adequate tooth brushing may prevent these stains which are not harmful or permanent and may be removed by your dentist .
* this product is specifically formulated to help prevent staining .
* store below 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) glycerin , water , hydrated silica , pentasodium triphosphate , sodium lauryl sulfate , flavor , cellulose gum , titanium dioxide , cocamidopropyl betaine , sodium saccharin [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
