Drug Facts : Active Ingredients : Purpose Avobenzone 0 . 5 % Sunscreen Octinoxate 6 . 3 % Sunscreen Oxybenzone 3 . 4 % Sunscreen Padimate 5 . 1 % Sunscreen Uses : Helps prevent Sunburn Higher SPF gives more sunburn protection .
Provides moderate protection against sunburn .
Warnings : • For External Use Only • Extremely Flammable : keep away from fire or flame Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F . • UV exposure from the sun increases the risk of skin cancer , premature skin ageing , and other skin damage .
It is important to decrease UV exposure by limiting time in the sun , wearing protective clothing , and using a sunscreen .
• Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
- Stop use and ask a doctor if skin rash occurs - Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
• Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incenerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 F • Avoid contact with painted and synthetic surfaces .
• Spray in a well ventilated area and avoid inhalation .
Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin rash occurs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if skin rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incenerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120 ° F . • Apply evenly before sun exposure as needed .
• Hold can about 6 inches away from body and spray onto skin .
Use hand to spread evenly .
• Do not spray directly onto face - spray into palm and smooth over face and neck .
• Children under 6 months of age - ask a doctor .
• Reapply as needed or after towel drying , swimming or perspiring .
Butane , Ethyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Octyldodecanol , Propane , Water .
See base of tin for batch details This product has a security tab on either side of the dust cover .
Do not use if these tabs are broken , missing or have been tampered with .
Manufactured by : Technikon Laboratories ( Ply ) Ltd P . 0 .
Box 1 5 0 , Maraisburg , 1700 , RSA Distributed By : The Myles Group LLC 4433 MountainRd , Ste # 3 Pasadena , MD 21122 Tel : ( 443 ) 305 - 2304 , PRODUCT OF SOUTH AFRICA NDC49672 - 100 - 01 TECHNIblock ULTRA SUNSCREEN SPF 30 + WATER RESISTANT NON - GREASY BROAD SPECTRUM UVB / UVA PROTECTION 4 . 17 fl oz ( 125 mL ) www . SubBlockerUSA . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
