Combination Tablets 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg 20 mg / 25 mg Prescribing Information WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( see WARNINGS : Fetal Toxicity ) .
DESCRIPTION Benazepril hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white crystalline powder , soluble ( > 100 mg / mL ) in water , in ethanol , and in methanol .
Benazepril hydrochloride ’ s chemical name is 3 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenyl - ( 1 S ) - propyl ] amino ] - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 2 - oxo - 1 H - 1 - ( 3 S ) - benzazepine - 1 - acetic acid monohydrochloride ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C24H28N2O5 · HCl , and its molecular weight is 460 . 96 .
Benazeprilat , the active metabolite of benazepril , is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor .
Benazepril is converted to benazeprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Hydrochlorothiazide USP is a white or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water ; freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution , in n - butylamine , and in dimethylformamide ; sparingly soluble in methanol ; and insoluble in ether , in chloroform , and in dilute mineral acids .
Hydrochlorothiazide ’ s chemical name is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , and its molecular weight is 297 . 73 .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP are a combination of benazepril hydrochloride USP and hydrochlorothiazide USP .
The tablets are formulated for oral administration with a combination of 5 , 10 or 20 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP and 6 . 25 , 12 . 5 or 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP .
The inactive ingredients of the tablets are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , pregelatinized starch , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
The 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue # 2 and iron oxide red .
The 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets also contain FD & C Red # 40 and FD & C Yellow # 6 .
The 20 mg / 25 mg tablets also contain FD & C Blue # 2 and FD & C Red # 40 .
Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP meet USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Benazepril and benazeprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and in animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Hypertensive patients treated with benazepril alone for up to 52 weeks had elevations of serum potassium of up to 0 . 2 mEq / L .
Similar patients treated with benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 24 weeks had no consistent changes in their serum potassium ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In animal studies , benazepril had no inhibitory effect on the vasopressor response to angiotensin II and did not interfere with the hemodynamic effects of the autonomic neurotransmitters acetylcholine , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which benazepril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , benazepril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin , so coadministration of an ACE inhibitor tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is unknown .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Following oral administration of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide , peak plasma concentrations of benazepril are reached within 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 hour .
As determined by urinary recovery , the extent of absorption is at least 37 % .
In fasting subjects , the rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide from benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide are not different , respectively , from the rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide from immediate - release monotherapy formulations .
The estimated absolute bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide after oral administration is about 70 % .
Peak plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations ( Cmax ) are reached within 2 to 5 hours after oral administration .
Hydrochlorothiazide binds to albumin ( 40 % to 70 % ) and distributes into erythrocytes .
The absorption of benazepril from benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract .
There is no clinically significant effect of food on the bioavailability of hydrochlorothiazide .
Cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts benazepril to its active metabolite , benazeprilat .
Peak plasma concentrations of benazeprilat are reached 1 to 2 hours after drug intake in the fasting state and 2 to 4 hours after drug intake in the nonfasting state .
The serum protein binding of benazepril is about 96 . 7 % and that of benazeprilat about 95 . 3 % , as measured by equilibrium dialysis ; on the basis of in vitro studies , the degree of protein binding should be unaffected by age , hepatic dysfunction , or – over the concentration range of 0 . 24 to 23 . 6 µmol / L – concentration .
In studies of rats given 14 C - benazepril , benazepril and its metabolites crossed the blood - brain barrier only to an extremely low extent .
Multiple doses of benazepril did not result in accumulation in any tissue except the lung , where , as with other ACE inhibitors in similar studies , there was a slight increase in concentration due to slow elimination in that organ .
Benazepril is almost completely metabolized to benazeprilat , which has much greater ACE inhibitory activity than benazepril , and to the glucuronide conjugates of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Only trace amounts of an administered dose of benazepril can be recovered unchanged in the urine ; about 20 % of the dose is excreted as benazeprilat , 4 % as benazepril glucuronide , and 8 % as benazeprilat glucuronide .
In patients with hepatic dysfunction due to cirrhosis , levels of benazeprilat are essentially unaltered .
Similarly , the pharmacokinetics of benazepril and benazeprilat do not appear to be influenced by age .
The kinetics of benazepril are dose - proportional within the dosage range of 5 mg to 20 mg .
Small deviations from dose proportionality were observed when the broader range of 2 mg to 80 mg was studied , possibly due to the saturable binding of the compound to ACE .
The effective half - life of accumulation of benazeprilat following multiple dosing of benazepril is 10 to 11 hours .
Thus , steady - state concentrations of benazeprilat should be reached after 2 or 3 doses of benazepril given once daily .
During chronic administration ( 28 days ) of once - daily doses of benazepril between 5 mg and 20 mg , the kinetics did not change , and there was no significant accumulation .
Accumulation ratios based on AUC and urinary recovery of benazeprilat were 1 . 19 and 1 . 27 , respectively .
When dialysis was started 2 hours after ingestion of 10 mg of benazepril , approximately 6 % of benazeprilat was removed in 4 hours of dialysis .
The parent compound , benazepril , was not detected in the dialysate .
Benazepril and benazeprilat are cleared predominantly by renal excretion in healthy subjects with normal renal function .
Nonrenal ( i . e . , biliary ) excretion accounts for approximately 11 % to 12 % of benazeprilat excretion in healthy subjects .
In patients with renal failure , biliary clearance may compensate to an extent for deficient renal clearance .
The disposition of benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with mild - to - moderate renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min ) is similar to that in patients with normal renal function .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min , peak benazeprilat levels and the initial ( alpha phase ) half - life increase , and time to steady - state may be delayed ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Following oral administration , plasma hydrochlorothiazide concentrations decline bi - exponentially , with a mean distribution half - life of about 2 hours and an elimination half - life of about 10 hours .
About 70 % of an orally administered dose of hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug .
In a study in individuals with impaired renal function , the mean elimination half - life of hydrochlorothiazide was increased to 2 fold in individuals with mild / moderate renal impairment ( 30 < CLcr < 90 mL / min ) and 3 fold and severe renal impairment ( ≤ 30 mL / min ) , when compared to individuals with normal renal function ( CLcr > 90 mL / min ) .
Pharmacodynamics Benazepril Single and multiple doses of 10 mg or more of benazepril cause inhibition of plasma ACE activity by at least 80 % to 90 % for at least 24 hours after dosing .
For up to 4 hours after a 10 mg dose , pressor responses to exogenous angiotensin I were inhibited by 60 % to 90 % .
In normal human volunteers , single doses of benazepril caused an increase in renal blood flow but had no effect on glomerular filtration rate .
Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours and lasts about 6 to 12 hours .
Drug Interactions Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets potentiates the antihypertensive action of other antihypertensive drugs ( e . g . , curare derivatives , guanethidine , methyldopa , beta - blockers , vasodilators , calcium channel blockers ACE inhibitors and ARBs and DRIs ) .
CLINICAL STUDIES In single - dose studies , benazepril lowered blood pressure within 1 hour , with peak reductions achieved 2 to 4 hours after dosing .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours .
In multiple - dose studies , once - daily doses of 20 mg to 80 mg decreased seated pressure ( systolic / diastolic ) 24 hours after dosing by about 6 - 12 / 4 - 7 mm Hg .
The reductions at trough are about 50 % of those seen at peak .
Four dose - response studies of benazepril monotherapy using once - daily dosing were conducted in 470 mild - to - moderate hypertensive patients not using diuretics .
The minimal effective once - daily dose of benazepril was 10 mg ; further falls in blood pressure , especially at morning trough , were seen with higher doses in the studied dosing range ( 10 mg to 80 mg ) .
In studies comparing the same daily dose of benazepril given as a single morning dose or as a twice - daily dose , blood pressure reductions at the time of morning trough blood levels were greater with the divided regimen .
The antihypertensive effects of benazepril were not appreciably different in patients receiving high - or low - sodium diets .
Benazepril - Hydrochlorothiazide In 15 controlled clinical trials , 1453 healthy or hypertensive patients were exposed to benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide of which 459 were exposed for at least 6 months , 214 for at least 12 months and 25 for at least 24 months .
The combination of benazepril - hydrochlorothiazide resulted in mean placebo - adjusted decreases in sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressures of 10 / 6 mm Hg with 5 / 6 . 25 mg and 10 / 12 . 5 mg doses , and 20 / 10 mm Hg with 20 / 25 mg dose .
In clinical trials of benazepril / hydrochlorothiazide using benazepril doses of 5 / 20 mg and hydrochlorothiazide doses of 6 . 25 / 25 mg , the antihypertensive effects were sustained for at least 24 hours , and they increased with increasing dose of either component .
Although benazepril monotherapy is somewhat less effective in blacks than in nonblacks , the efficacy of combination therapy appears to be independent of race .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
This fixed combination drug is not indicated for the initial therapy of hypertension ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in patients who are anuric .
Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are also contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril , to any other ACE inhibitor , to hydrochlorothiazide , or to other sulfonamide - derived drugs .
Hypersensitivity reactions are more likely to occur in patients with a history of allergy or bronchial asthma .
Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are also contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment .
Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets within 36 hours of switching to or from sacubitril / valsartan , a neprilysin inhibitor ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , including benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including benazepril ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors .
In U . S . clinical trials , symptoms consistent with angioedema were seen in none of the subjects who received placebo and in about 0 . 5 % of the subjects who received benazepril .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , treatment with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted immediately .
When involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine injection 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 - 0 . 5 mL ) should be promptly administered ( see PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to nonblacks .
Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide are more likely in patients with allergy and asthma .
Hypotension Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Like other ACE inhibitors , benazepril has been only rarely associated with hypotension in uncomplicated hypertensive patients .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume and / or salt depleted as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be used cautiously in patients receiving concomitant therapy with other antihypertensives .
The thiazide component of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs , especially ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic - blocking drugs .
The antihypertensive effects of the thiazide component may also be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria , azotemia , and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide therapy should be started under close medical supervision ; they should be followed closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of benazepril or diuretic is increased .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in a supine position , and , if necessary , treated with intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablet treatment usually can be continued following restoration of blood pressure and volume .
Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
In a small study of hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , treatment with benazepril was associated with increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine ; these increases were reversible upon discontinuation of benazepril therapy , concomitant diuretic therapy , or both .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients ( incidence probably less than once per 10 , 000 exposures ) but more frequently ( incidence possibly as great as once per 1000 exposures ) in patients with renal impairment , especially those who also have collagen - vascular diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of benazepril are insufficient to show that benazepril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Monitoring of white blood cell counts should be considered in patients with collagen - vascular disease , especially if the disease is associated with impaired renal function .
Fetal toxicity Pregnancy Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pediatric Use ) .
No teratogenic effects of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits .
On a mg / m2 basis , the doses used in these studies were 60 times ( in rats ) , 9 times ( in mice ) , and more than 0 . 8 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose ( assuming a 50 - kg woman ) .
On a mg / kg basis these multiples are 300 times ( in rats ) , 90 times ( in mice ) , and more than 3 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
When hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered without benazepril to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis , at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day respectively , there was no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Similarly , no teratogenic effects of benazepril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits ; on a mg / kg basis , the doses used in these studies were 300 times ( in rats ) , 90 times ( in mice ) , and more than 3 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Thiazides can cross the placenta , and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma Hydrochlorothiazide , like other diuretics , can cause placental hypoperfusion .
It accumulates in the amniotic fluid , with reported concentrations up to 19 times higher than in umbilical vein plasma .
Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia .
Since they do not prevent or alter the course of EPH ( Edema , Proteinuria , Hypertension ) gestosis ( pre - eclampsia ) , these drugs must not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women .
The use of hydrochlorothiazide for other indications ( e . g . , heart disease ) in pregnancy should be avoided .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
PRECAUTIONS General Serum Electrolyte Abnormalities In clinical trials of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide , the average change in serum potassium was near zero in subjects who received 5 / 6 . 25 mg or 20 / 12 . 5 mg , but the average subject who received 10 / 12 . 5 mg or 20 / 25 mg experienced a mild reduction in serum potassium , similar to that experienced by the average subject receiving the same dose of hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy .
Hydrochlorothiazide can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which appears difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
Metabolic Disturbances Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hydrochlorothiazide may raise the serum uric acid level due to reduced clearance of uric acid and may cause or exacerbate hyperuricemia and precipitate gout in susceptible patients .
Thiazides decrease urinary calcium excretion and may cause mild elevation of serum calcium .
Avoid using benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with hypercalcemia .
Cough : Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / Anesthesia : In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , benazepril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur at any time with treatment with ACE inhibitors .
A patient receiving benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , eyes , lips , or tongue , or difficulty in breathing ) and to take no more drugs until after consulting with the prescribing physician .
Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
Symptomatic Hypotension : A patient receiving benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to the prescribing physician .
The patient should be told that if syncope occurs , benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued until the physician has been consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Hyperkalemia : A patient receiving benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be told not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting the prescribing physician .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to promptly report any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Laboratory Tests The hydrochlorothiazide component of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide may decrease serum PBI levels without signs of thyroid disturbance .
Therapy with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be interrupted for a few days before carrying out tests of parathyroid function .
Drug Interactions Neprilysin Inhibitors : Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema .
Interactions Common for Both Benazepril and Hydrochlorothiazide Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics : Concomitant use with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide may effect potassium levels .
Monitor potassium periodically .
mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitors : Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy may be at increased risk for angioedema ( see WARNINGS ) .
Lithium : Renal clearance of lithium is reduced by thiazides and increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
Monitor lithium levels when used concomitantly with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Dual Blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypertension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
NSAIDs and Cox - 2 selective agents : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Benazepril Benazepril has been used concomitantly with beta - adrenergic - blocking agents , calcium - blocking agents , cimetidine , diuretics , digoxin , hydralazine , and naproxen without evidence of clinically important adverse interactions .
Other ACE inhibitors have had less than additive effects with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because drugs of both classes lower blood pressure by inhibiting parts of the renin - angiotensin system .
Interaction studies with warfarin and acenocoumarol have failed to identify any clinically important effects of benazepril on the serum concentrations or clinical effects of these anticoagulants .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy .
Hydrochlorothiazide Ion exchange resins : Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and ion exchange resins such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of resins .
Single doses of either cholestyramine or colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and reduce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 % and 43 % , respectively .
Digitalis glycosides : Thiazide - induced hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may predispose the patients to digoxin toxicity .
Skeletal muscle relaxants : Possible increased responsiveness to muscle relaxants such as curare derivatives .
Antidiabetic agents : Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic drug may be required .
Antineoplastic agents ( e . g . , cyclophosphamide , methotrexate ) : Concomitant use of thiazide diuretics may reduce renal excretion of cytotoxic agents and enhance their myelosuppressive effects .
Drugs that alter gastrointestinal motility : The bioavailability of thiazide - type diuretics may be increased by anticholinergic agents ( e . g . , atropine , biperiden ) , apparently due to a decrease in gastrointestinal motility and the stomach emptying rate .
Conversely , pro - kinetic drugs may decrease the bioavailability of thiazide diuretics .
Cyclosporin : Concomitant treatment with diuretics may increase the risk of hyperuricaemia and gout - type complications .
Alcohol , barbiturates or narcotics : Concomitant administration of thiazide diuretics with alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics may potentiate orthostatic hypotension .
Pressor amines : Hydrochlorothiazide may reduce the response to pressor amines such as noradrenaline but the clinical significance of this effect is not sufficient to preclude their use .
Non - clinical safety data Carcinogenesis , Mutagenicity , Fertility No evidence of carcinogenicity was found when benazepril was given to rats and mice for 104 weeks at doses up to 150 mg / kg / day .
On a body - surface - area basis , this dose is 18 times ( rats ) and 9 times ( mice ) the maximum recommended human dose .
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria ( with or without metabolic activation ) , in an in vitro test for forward mutations in cultured mammalian cells , or in a nucleus anomaly test .
At doses of 50 - 500 mg / kg / day ( 6 to 61 times the maximum recommended dose on a body - surface - area basis ) , benazepril had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program , rats and mice received hydrochlorothiazide in their feed for 2 years , at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day in mice and up to 100 mg / kg / day in rats .
These studies uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in rats or female mice , but there was equivocal evidence of hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in in vitro assays using strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 of Salmonella typhimurium ( the Ames test ) ; in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations ; or in in vivo assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) test and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide of 43 to 1300 µg / mL .
Positive test results were also obtained in the Aspergillus nidulans nondisjunction assay , using an unspecified concentration of hydrochlorothiazide .
Fertility There are no human fertility data for hydrochlorothiazide .
In animal studies , benazepril and hydrochlorothiazide alone or in combination had no effect on fertility and conception ( see PRECAUTIONS , Non - Clinical Safety Data ) .
Use in Specific Populations Nursing Mothers Minimal amounts of unchanged benazepril and benazeprilat are excreted into the breast milk of lactating women treated with benazepril , so that a newborn child ingesting nothing but breast milk would receive less than 0 . 1 % of the maternal doses of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Thiazides , on the other hand , are definitely excreted into breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrochlorothiazide and the unknown effects of benazepril in infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients who received benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in U . S . clinical studies of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide , 19 % were 65 or older while about 1 . 5 % were 75 or older .
Overall differences in effectiveness or safety were not observed between these patients and younger patients .
A limited amount of data suggests that the systemic clearance of hydrochlorothiazide is reduced in both healthy and hypertensive elderly subjects compared to young healthy volunteers .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Benazepril , which crosses the placenta , can theoretically be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means ; there are occasional reports of benefit from these maneuvers with another ACE inhibitor , but experience is limited .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Renal Impairment Safety and effectiveness of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCL ≤ 30 mL / min ) have not been established .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild ( CrCL 60 to 90 mL / min ) or moderate ( CrCL 30 to 60 mL / min ) renal impairment .
Hepatic Impairment No adjustment of the initial dose is required for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte imbalance may precipitate hepatic coma in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide has been evaluated for safety in over 2500 patients with hypertension ; over 500 of these patients were treated for at least 6 months , and over 200 were treated for more than 1 year .
The reported side effects were generally mild and transient , and there was no relationship between side effects and age , sex , race , or duration of therapy .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in approximately 7 % of U . S . patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide and in 4 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide in U . S . studies were cough ( 1 . 0 % ; see PRECAUTIONS ) , “ dizziness ” ( 1 . 0 % ) , headache ( 0 . 6 % ) , and fatigue ( 0 . 6 % ) .
The side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide are shown in the table below .
Reactions Possibly or Probably Drug Related Patients in U . S . Placebo - Controlled Studies Benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide N = 665 Placebo N = 235 “ Dizziness ” N % N % Fatigue 41 6 . 3 8 3 . 4 Postural Dizziness 34 5 . 2 6 2 . 6 Headache 23 3 . 5 1 0 . 4 Cough 20 3 . 1 10 4 . 3 Hypertonia 14 2 . 1 3 1 . 3 Vertigo 10 1 . 5 3 1 . 3 Nausea 10 1 . 5 2 0 . 9 Impotence 9 1 . 4 2 0 . 9 Somnolence 8 1 . 2 0 0 . 0 “ Dizziness ” 8 1 . 2 1 0 . 4 Other side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials in 0 . 3 % to 1 . 0 % of patients treated with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide were the following : Cardiovascular : Palpitations , flushing .
Gastrointestinal : Vomiting , diarrhea , dyspepsia , anorexia , and constipation .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Insomnia , nervousness , paresthesia , libido decrease , dry mouth , taste perversion , and tinnitus .
Dermatologic : Rash and sweating .
Other : Urinary frequency , arthralgia , myalgia , asthenia , and pain ( including chest pain and abdominal pain ) .
Other adverse experiences reported in 0 . 3 % or more of benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide patients in U . S . controlled clinical trials , and rarer events seen in post - marketing experience , were the following ; asterisked entries occurred in more than 1 % of patients ( in some , a causal relationship to benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide is uncertain ) : Cardiovascular : Syncope , peripheral vascular disorder , and tachycardia .
Body as a Whole : Infection , back pain * , flu syndrome * , fever , chills , and neck pain .
Dermatologic : Photosensitivity and pruritus .
Gastrointestinal : Gastroenteritis , flatulence , and tooth disorder .
Neurologic and Psychiatric : Hypesthesia , abnormal vision , abnormal dreams , and retinal disorder .
Respiratory : Upper respiratory infection * , epistaxis , bronchitis , rhinitis * , sinusitis * , and voice alteration .
Other : Conjunctivitis , arthritis , urinary tract infection , alopecia , and urinary frequency * .
Post - Marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of either benazepril or hydrochlorothiazide .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
Benazepril Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pancreatitis , hemolytic anemia , pemphigus , and thrombocytopenia , eosinophilic pneumonitis Hydrochlorothiazide Digestive : Pancreatitis , small bowel angioedema , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic ) , sialadenitis , vomiting , diarrhea , cramping , nausea , gastric irritation , constipation , and anorexia .
Neurologic : Vertigo , lightheadedness , transient blurred vision , headache , paresthesia , xanthopsia , weakness , and restlessness .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , neutropenia and thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic : Hyperglycemia , glycosuria , and hyperuricemia , pyrexia , asthenia , parathyroid gland changes with hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylactoid reactions , necrotizing angiitis , respiratory distress ( including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema ) , purpura , urticaria , rash , and photosensitivity .
Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Serum Electrolytes : see PRECAUTIONS .
Creatinine and BUN : Minor reversible increases in serum creatinine and BUN were observed in patients with essential hypertension treated with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide .
Such increases occurred most frequently in patients with renal artery stenosis ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 308 - 6755 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide ; treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide should be discontinued , and the patient should be observed .
Dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , and hypotension should be treated by established procedures .
Single oral doses of 1 g / kg of benazepril caused reduced activity in mice , and doses of 3 g / kg were associated with significant lethality .
Reduction of activity in rats was not seen until they had received doses of 5 g / kg , and doses of 6 g / kg were not lethal .
In single - dose studies of hydrochlorothiazide , most rats survived doses up to 2 . 75 g / kg .
Data from human overdoses of benazepril are scanty , but the most common manifestation of human benazepril overdosage is likely to be hypotension .
In human hydrochlorothiazide overdose , the most common signs and symptoms observed have been those of dehydration and electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of benazepril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of benazepril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of benazepril and its metabolites .
Benazeprilat is only slightly dialyzable , but dialysis might be considered in overdosed patients with severely impaired renal function ( see WARNINGS ) .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the setting of benazepril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of benazepril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat benazepril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dose once daily .
The dosage may then be increased after 2 to 3 weeks as needed to help achieve blood pressure goals .
The maximum recommended dose is 20 / 25 mg .
Switch Therapy : A patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with benazepril alone or with hydrochlorothiazide alone may be switched to combination therapy with benazepril hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
The usual recommended starting dose is 10 / 12 . 5 mg once daily to control blood pressure .
Replacement Therapy : The combination may be substituted for the titrated individual components .
HOW SUPPLIED Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP are available in four different strengths : 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg : White , capsule shaped , film - coated tablet , scored on one side and debossed “ AN 14 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 5 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP and 6 . 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP and is supplied as bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 62559 - 414 - 01 ) .
10 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Purple , capsule shaped , film - coated tablet , scored on one side and debossed “ AN 15 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 10 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP and is supplied as bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 62559 - 415 - 01 ) .
20 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Pink , capsule shaped , film - coated tablet , scored on one side and debossed “ AN 16 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 20 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP and 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP and is supplied as bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 62559 - 416 - 01 ) .
20 mg / 25 mg : Red , capsule shaped , film - coated tablet , scored on one side and debossed “ AN 17 ” on the other side .
Each tablet contains 20 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide USP and is supplied as bottles of 100 tablets ( NDC 62559 - 417 - 01 ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture and light .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Manufactured by : ANI Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baudette , MN 56623 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10559 Rev 09 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 5 mg / 6 . 25 mg NDC 62559 - 414 - 01 Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 10 mg / 12 . 5 mg NDC 62559 - 415 - 01 Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 20 mg / 12 . 5 mg NDC 62559 - 416 - 01 Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Benazepril Hydrochloride and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets USP 20 mg / 25 mg NDC 62559 - 417 - 01 Rx only 100 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
