DESCRIPTION Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP are a synthetic , antineoplastic and progestational drug .
Megestrol acetate is a white , crystalline solid chemically designated as 17α - acetyloxy - 6 - methylpregna - 4 , 6 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione .
Solubility at 37 ° C in water is 2 mcg per mL , solubility in plasma is 24 mcg per mL .
The structural formula is represented as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C24H32O4 M . W . 384 . 51 Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP are supplied as tablets for oral administration containing 20 mg or 40 mg megestrol acetate .
Inactive Ingredients : Anhydrous lactose , dibasic calcium phosphate dihydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY While the precise mechanism by which megestrol acetate produces its antineoplastic effects against endometrial carcinoma is unknown at the present time , inhibition of pituitary gonadotrophin production and resultant decrease in estrogen secretion may be factors .
There is evidence to suggest a local effect as a result of the marked changes brought about by the direct instillation of progestational agents into the endometrial cavity .
The antineoplastic action of megestrol acetate on carcinoma of the breast is effected by modifying the action of other steroid hormones and by exerting a direct cytotoxic effect on tumor cells .
In metastatic cancer , hormone receptors may be present in some tissues but not others .
The receptor mechanism is a cyclic process whereby estrogen produced by the ovaries enters the target cell , forms a complex with cytoplasmic receptor and is transported into the cell nucleus .
There it induces gene transcription and leads to the alteration of normal cell functions .
Pharmacologic doses of megestrol acetate not only decrease the number of hormone - dependent human breast cancer cells but also are capable of modifying and abolishing the stimulatory effects of estrogen on these cells .
It has been suggested that progestins may inhibit in one of two ways : by interfering with either the stability , availability , or turnover of the estrogen receptor complex in its interaction with genes or in conjunction with the progestin receptor complex , by interacting directly with the genome to turn off specific estrogen - responsive genes .
There are several analytical methods used to estimate megestrol acetate plasma levels , including mass fragmentography , gas chromatography ( GC ) , high pressure liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) and radioimmunoassay .
The plasma levels by HPLC assay or radioimmunoassay methods are about one - sixth those obtained by the GC method .
The plasma levels are dependent not only on the method used , but also on intestinal and hepatic inactivation of the drug , which may be affected by factors such as intestinal tract motility , intestinal bacteria , antibiotics administered , body weight , diet , and liver function .
Metabolites account for only 5 % to 8 % of the administered dose and are considered negligible .
The major route of drug elimination in humans is the urine .
When radiolabeled megestrol acetate was administered to humans in doses of 4 to 90 mg , the urinary excretion within 10 days ranged from 56 . 5 % to 78 . 4 % ( mean 66 . 4 % ) and fecal excretion ranged from 7 . 7 % to 30 . 3 % ( mean 19 . 8 % ) .
The total recovered radioactivity varied between 83 . 1 % and 94 . 7 % ( mean 86 . 2 % ) .
Respiratory excretion as labeled carbon dioxide and fat storage may have accounted for at least part of the radioactivity not found in the urine and feces .
In normal male volunteers ( n = 23 ) who received 160 mg of megestrol acetate given as a 40 mg qid regimen , the oral absorption of megestrol acetate appeared to be variable .
Plasma levels were assayed by a high pressure liquid chromatographic ( HPLC ) procedure .
Peak drug levels for the first 40 mg dose ranged from 10 to 56 ng / mL ( mean 27 . 6 ng / mL ) and the times to peak concentrations ranged from 1 to 3 hours ( mean 2 . 2 hours ) .
Plasma elimination half - life ranged from 13 to 104 . 9 hours ( mean 34 . 2 hours ) .
The steady state plasma concentrations for a 40 mg qid regimen have not been established .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Megestrol Acetate Tablets are indicated for the palliative treatment of advanced carcinoma of the breast or endometrium ( i . e . , recurrent , inoperable , or metastatic disease ) .
It should not be used in lieu of currently accepted procedures such as surgery , radiation , or chemotherapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS History of hypersensitivity to megestrol acetate or any component of the formulation .
WARNINGS Megestrol acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Fertility and reproduction studies with high doses of megestrol acetate have shown a reversible feminizing effect on some male rat fetuses .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking ( receiving ) this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant .
The use of megestrol acetate in other types of neoplastic disease is not recommended .
( See also PRECAUTIONS , Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility section ) .
The glucocorticoid activity of megestrol acetate tablets has not been fully evaluated .
Clinical cases of new onset diabetes mellitus , exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus , and overt Cushing ’ s syndrome have been reported in association with the chronic use of megestrol acetate .
In addition , clinical cases of adrenal insufficiency have been observed in patients receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy in the stressed and non - stressed state .
Furthermore , adrenocorticotropin ( ACTH ) stimulation testing has revealed the frequent occurrence of asymptomatic pituitary - adrenal suppression in patients treated with chronic megestrol acetate therapy .
Therefore , the possibility of adrenal insufficiency should be considered in any patient receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy who presents with symptoms and / or signs suggestive of hypoadrenalism ( e . g . , hypotension , nausea , vomiting , dizziness , or weakness ) in either the stressed or non - stressed state .
Laboratory evaluation for adrenal insufficiency and consideration of replacement or stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid are strongly recommended in such patients .
Failure to recognize inhibition of the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal axis may result in death .
Finally , in patients who are receiving or being withdrawn from chronic megestrol acetate therapy , consideration should be given to the use of empiric therapy with stress doses of a rapidly acting glucocorticoid in conditions of stress or serious intercurrent illness ( e . g . , surgery , infection ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Close surveillance is indicated for any patient treated for recurrent or metastatic cancer .
Use with caution in patients with a history of thromboembolic disease .
Use in Diabetics Exacerbation of preexisting diabetes with increased insulin requirements has been reported in association with the use of megestrol acetate .
Information for the Patients Patients using megestrol acetate should receive the following instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
• Report any adverse reaction experiences while taking this medication .
Laboratory Tests Breast malignancies in which estrogen and / or progesterone receptors are positive are more likely to respond to megestrol acetate .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Administration of megestrol acetate to female dogs for up to 7 years is associated with an increased incidence of both benign and malignant tumors of the breast .
Comparable studies in rats and studies in monkeys are not associated with an increased incidence of tumors .
The relationship of the dog tumors to humans is unknown but should be considered in assessing the benefit - to - risk ratio when prescribing megestrol acetate and in surveillance of patients on therapy ( see WARNINGS section ) .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D . ( See WARNINGS section . )
Nursing Mothers Because of the potential for adverse effects on the newborn , nursing should be discontinued if megestrol acetate is required for treatment of cancer .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Insufficient data from clinical studies of megestrol acetate tablets are available for patients 65 years of age and older to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Megestrol acetate is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Weight Gain Weight gain is a frequent side effect of megestrol acetate .
This gain has been associated with increased appetite and is not necessarily associated with fluid retention .
Thromboembolic Phenomena Thromboembolic phenomena including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism ( in some cases fatal ) have been reported .
Glucocorticoid Effects ( See WARNINGS section . )
Other Adverse Reactions Heart failure , nausea and vomiting , edema , breakthrough menstrual bleeding , dyspnea , tumor flare ( with or without hypercalcemia ) , hyperglycemia , glucose intolerance , alopecia , hypertension , carpal tunnel syndrome , mood changes , hot flashes , malaise , asthenia , lethargy , sweating and rash .
OVERDOSAGE No serious unexpected side effects have resulted from studies involving megestrol acetate administered in dosages as high as 1600 mg / day .
Oral administration of large , single doses of megestrol acetate ( 5 g / kg ) did not produce toxic effects in mice .
Megestrol acetate has not been tested for dialyzability ; however , due to its low solubility it is postulated that this would not be an effective means of treating overdose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Breast Cancer : 160 mg / day ( 40 mg qid ) .
Endometrial Carcinoma : 40 to 320 mg / day in divided doses .
At least 2 months of continuous treatment is considered an adequate period for determining the efficacy of megestrol acetate tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP are available as : 20 mg : White , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge , scored tablet .
Debossed with 555 / 606 on one side and stylized b on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0555 - 0606 - 02 ) Tablets .
40 mg : White , round , flat - faced , beveled - edge , scored tablet .
Debossed with 555 / 607 on one side and stylized barr on the other side .
Available in bottles of 100 ( NDC 0555 - 0607 - 02 ) Tablets .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
SPECIAL HANDLING Health Hazard Data There is no threshold limit value established by OSHA , NIOSH , or ACGIH .
Exposure or “ overdose ” at levels approaching recommended dosing levels could result in side effects described above ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
Women at risk of pregnancy should avoid such exposure .
TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
North Wales , PA 19454 Rev . A 5 / 2016 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP 20 mg 100 s Label Text NDC 0555 - 0606 - 02 Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP 20 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP 40 mg 100 s Label Text NDC 0555 - 0607 - 02 Megestrol Acetate Tablets USP 40 mg Rx only 100 TABLETS TEVA
