Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid ( 0 . 5 % ) Purpose Acne Treatment Indications • For the treatment of acne Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor or pharmacist before using if you are using other topical acne medications at the same time or immediately following use of this product .
This may increase dryness or irritation of the skin .
If this occurs , only one medication should be used unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product • avoid direct contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control enter right away .
Directions • cleanse skin thoroughly before applying medication .
cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 - 3 times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase to 2 - 3 times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients water , alcohol denat . , laureth - 4 , alcohol , polysorbate 20 , arginine , andelic acid , glycolic acid , myristoyl tetrapeptide - 13 , niacinamide , tocopherol , citrus aurantium dulcis ( orange ) peel extract , cocoyl arginine amide , ethylhexylglycerin , pentylene glycol , tamarindus indica seed extract , lens esculenta ( lentil ) seed extract , sodium hydroxide , decylene glycol , limonene , phenoxyethanol .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll - free 1 - 800 - 568 - 3151 from 8 : 00 a . m . - 5 : 00 p . m . MST ( Monday - Friday ) Principal Display Panel – 56 . 7 g Sleeve Label philosophy acne treatment overnight repair pads salicylic acid [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 56 . 7 g Box Label clear days ahead ™ philosophy ® : mirror , mirror on the wall , who is the clearest of them all ?
every morning begins with a mirror check .
what is the mirror telling you ?
take control of your mornings with good nights , and you ' ll wake up the clearest of them all .
overnight repair salicylic acid acne treatment pads 60 pads • 56 . 7 g / net wt .
2 oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - 56 . 7 g Bottle Label clear days ahead ™ philosophy ® : take control of your mornings with good nights , and you ' ll wake up the clearest of them all overnight repair salicylic acid acne treatment pads 60 pads • 56 . 7 g / net wt .
2 oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
