Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 1 . 5 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 3 % Sunscreen Oxybenzone 4 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings • For external use only • Do not use on damaged or broken skin • When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove • Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs • Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions For sunscreen use : • apply generously and evenly 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other Information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive Ingredients Water , Glycerin , C12 - 15 Alkyl Benzoate , Cetearyl Alcohol , Cetyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Stearate , Dimethicone , PEG - 75 Stearate , Phenoxyethanol , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Panthenol , Tocopheryl Acetate , Caprylyl Glycol , Carbomer , Cetearyl Glucoside , Methylparaben , Butylene Glycol , Ceteth - 20 , Steareth - 20 , Propylparaben , Chlorphenesin , BHT , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Tocopherol , Polysorbate 20 , Retinol Questions or Comments ?
Call toll - free 800 - 582 - 4048 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 g Tube Carton NEUTROGENA Healthy Skin ® Anti - Wrinkle cream with sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 15 A Daily Retinol Facial Moisturizer with Multi - Vitamins Clinically proven to : • Reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles • Reduce the look of discoloration Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED NET WT .
1 . 4 OZ .
( 40 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
