Drug Facts Active ingredient Salicylic Acid 2 % Purpose Acne medication Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable - Keep away from fire or flame .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• if eye contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • cleanse skin thoroughly before applying this product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce applications to once a day or every other day .
Other information Store at Room Temperature .
Sunburn Alert This product contains an alpha hydroxy acid ( AHA ) that may increase your skin ' s sensitivity to the sun and particularly the possibility of sunburn .
Use a sunscreen , wear protective clothing , and limit sun exposure while using this product and for a week afterwards .
Inactive ingredients Water , Alcohol Denat . , Butylene Glycol , PPG - 5 - Ceteth - 20 , C12 - 15 Alkyl Lactate , Sodium Citrate , Cocamidopropyl PG - Dimonium Chloride Phosphate , Fragrance , PEG / PPG - 20 / 6 Dimethicone , Sodium Hydroxide , Benzalkonium Chloride , Cetyl Lactate , Disodium EDTA Questions ?
call toll - free 800 - 582 - 4048 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . neutrogena . com Dist .
by Neutrogena Corporation Los Angeles , CA 90045 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 Pad Jar Label NEW INFO NEUTROGENA Rapid Clear ® Treatment Pads Neutrogena ® salicylic acid acne treatment MICRO CLEAR ™ technology helps stop emerging breakouts reduces breakouts in 8 HOURS MAXIMUM STRENGTH • Deep leans dirt and oil .
• Leaves skin clean and smooth .
60 PADS 2 . 12 in .
( 5 . 50 cm ) DIA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
