Active Ingredient Purpose Tolnaftate 1 . 0 % .......................................................... Antifungal Uses - proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm with daily use .
- helps prevent most athlete ' s foot with daily use .
- for effective relief of itching , burning and cracking .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 2 weeks for jock itch .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation occurs or if there is no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot or ringworm .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions - clean the affected area and dry thoroughly ; - apply a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a physician ; - supervise children in the use of this product ; - for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
- for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks .
- for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
- if condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
- this product is not effective on the scalp or nails .
Other information store in a cool , dry place .
Inactive Ingredients : Almond oil , aloe vera gel , calendula oil , castor oil , cetyl alcohol , citricidal ( grapefruit seed extract ) , cocoa butter , diazolidinyl urea , lanolin oil , lavender oil , methylparaben , myrrh tincture , propylene glycol , propylparaben , rosemary oil , stearic acid , tea tree oil , thyme oil , triethanolamine , water .
Antifungal Lotion provides effective relief of itching , scaling , burning , irritation and discomfort associated with athlete ' s foot , jock itch and ringworm .
The active ingredient , Tolnaftate , combines with a soothing base of natural botanical extracts to yield a truly unique formula .
You can count on Home Health to deliver the natural heath products your family deserves .
No Mineral Oil , No petroleum , No Artificial Colors , No Artificial Fragrance .
Carefully Manufactured for HomeHealth , Co .
Ronkonxoma , NY 11779 U . S . A . 800 - 445 - 7137 www . HomeHealthUS . com 2009 Home Health B11812 03 B HomeHealth Natural Health Begins at Home Antifungal Lotion Tolnaftate Proven Clinicallyl Effective In the Threatment of Most Athlete ' s Foot , Jock Itch , Ringworm Net Wt .
4 fl .
oz .
( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
