Drug Facts Active ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3 % Sunscreen Homosalate 10 % Sunscreen Octisalate 5 % Sunscreen Octocrylene 10 % Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable keep away from fire and Flame Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • Shake well before use .
• Spray liberally and spread evenly by hand 15 minutes before sun exposure Hold container 4 - 6 inches from the skin to apply .
Rub in .
• Do not spray directly onto face .
Spray on hands and then apply to face .
Rub in .
• Do not apply in windy conditions .
• reapply : • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun • May stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients SD Alcohol 40 - B , Dimethicone , Trisiloxane , Diisopropyl Adipate , Acrylates / Octylacrylamide Copolymer , Acrylates / Dimethicone Copolymer , Tocopheryl Acetate , Fragrance , Chrysanthemum Parthenium ( Feverfew ) Flower / Leaf / Stem Juice Questions ?
Call toll - free 800 - 299 - 4786 or 215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . neutrogena . com Distributed by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER INC .
Skillman , NJ 08558 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 100 mL Bottle Label Neutrogena ® DERMATOLOGIST RECOMMENDED BRAND Invisible Daily defense face mist sunscreen BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 50 50 sun + antioxidants oxybenzone free water resistant ( 40 minutes ) 3 . 4 FL OZ ( 100 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
