Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 10 % Purpose Acne treatment Use For the treatment of acne .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
• avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , and mouth .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
• avoid contact with hair and dyed fabrics , which may be bleached by this product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling , or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Do not use if you • have very sensitive skin • are sensitive to benzoyl peroxide .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Wet face .
Gently massage all over face for 20 - 30 seconds , avoiding eye area .
Rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
• If going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use of both products and ask a doctor .
Other information • Keep tightly closed .
• Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients Water , Cetyl Alcohol , Petrolatum , Zinc Lactate , Steareth - 2 , Glycerin , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Acrylates / C10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Xanthan Gum , Benzyl Alcohol , Fragrance , Disodium EDTA , Laureth - 4 , BHT , Menthol Questions ?
Call toll - free 877 - 754 - 6411 or215 - 273 - 8755 ( collect ) or visit www . CleanandClear . com Distributed in the US by : JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER PRODUCTS COMPANY Division of Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies , Inc .
Skillman , NJ 08558 - 9418 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 142 g Tube Label Clean & Clear ® continuous control ® acne cleanser 10 % benzoyl peroxide acne medication DAILY FORMULA after one week of use , skin is visibly clearer and less oily NET WT .
5 OZ .
( 142 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
