WARNING : DISTANT SPREAD OF TOXIN EFFECT The effects of all botulinum toxin products , including DAXXIFY , may spread from the area of injection to produce symptoms consistent with botulinum toxin effects .
These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection .
Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death .
The risk of symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can also occur in adults , particularly in those patients who have an underlying condition that would predispose them to these symptoms .
( 5 . 1 ) WARNING : DISTANT SPREAD OF TOXIN EFFECT See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
The effects of DAXXIFY and all botulinum toxin products may spread from the area of injection to produce symptoms consistent with botulinum toxin effects .
These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection .
Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life threatening and there have been reports of death .
The risk of symptoms is probably greatest in children treated for spasticity but symptoms can also occur in adults , particularly in those patients who have an underlying condition that would predispose them to these symptoms .
( 5 . 1 ) Boxed Warning Indications and Usage ( 1 ) Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 , 5 . 8 , 5 . 9 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE DAXXIFY is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and neuromuscular blocking agent indicated for the treatment or improvement of : • Temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines associated with corrugator and / or procerus muscle activity in adult patients .
( 1 . 1 ) • Cervical dystonia in adults ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Glabellar Lines DAXXIFY ( daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm ) is indicated for the temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines associated with corrugator and / or procerus muscle activity in adult patients .
1 . 2 Cervical Dystonia DAXXIFY is indicated for the treatment of cervical dystonia in adult patients .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glabellar Lines : the recommended dose is 0 . 1 mL ( 8 Units ) by intramuscular injection into each of five sites , for a total dose of 40 Units .
( 2 . 2 ) Cervical Dystonia : the recommended initial dose is 125 Units to 250 Units per treatment session .
The optimum dose , frequency , and number of injection sites in the treated muscle ( s ) should be based on severity or prior treatment response in patients previously treated with botulinum toxin ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Important Administration Instructions The potency units of DAXXIFY for injection are specific to the preparation and test method utilized .
They are not interchangeable with other preparations of botulinum toxin products and , therefore , units of biological activity of DAXXIFY cannot be compared to or converted into units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific test method .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Description ( 11 ) ] The safe and effective use of DAXXIFY depends upon proper storage of the product , selection of the correct dose , and proper reconstitution and administration techniques .
DAXXIFY should be administered no more frequently than every three months for any indication .
Consideration of the cumulative dose is necessary when treating adult patients with DAXXIFY .
Physicians should be aware of whether patients are receiving treatment with other botulinum toxin products for other indications .
Reconstituted DAXXIFY is intended for intramuscular injection only .
Reconstitution instructions are provided specifically for the 50 Unit and the 100 Unit vials ( Table 1 ; Table 2 ) .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage and Administration Glabellar Lines Glabellar lines arise from the contraction of the corrugator and procerus muscles .
These can be identified by palpation of the glabellar muscle mass while having the patient frown maximally .
Contraction of the corrugator muscles compresses the skin , creating a vertical line or lines surrounded by ridges of tensed muscle .
Because the exact location , size , and activity of the muscles can vary markedly among individuals , physicians administering DAXXIFY must understand the relevant anatomy of the area involved and any alterations to the anatomy due to prior surgical procedures and diseases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
After assessment , the location of the corrugator muscle injection sites may need to be adjusted based on individual facial anatomy and the pattern of muscle contraction .
The total recommended dose is 40 Units per treatment session divided into five equal intramuscular injections of 8 Units each ( two injections in each corrugator muscle and one injection in the procerus muscle ) .
After reconstitution , only use each DAXXIFY vial for only one injection session and for only one patient .
Discard any remaining solution in vial immediately after administration .
The upper eyelid margin position should be carefully examined for separation or weakness of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle .
Evaluate the range of upper eyelid excursion while manually immobilizing the frontalis to assess degree of levator function and frontalis compensation .
In order to reduce the complication of ptosis , the following steps should be taken : • Avoid injection near the levator palpebrae superioris , particularly in patients with larger brow depressor complexes .
• Ensure the injected volume / dose is accurate and administer in a steady , controlled manner .
• Do not inject DAXXIFY less than 1 centimeter above the superior orbital rim .
To inject DAXXIFY , clean the exposed portion of the stopper with an alcohol swab and aseptically withdraw at least 0 . 5 mL of the reconstituted solution from the vial into a sterile syringe .
Replace the needle used to withdraw the product with a 30 to 33 gauge sterile needle for injection .
Expel any air bubbles prior to administration .
Advance the needle through the skin into the underlying muscle while applying finger pressure on the superior medial orbital rim .
• Inject a dose of 8 Units ( 0 . 1 mL ) into each of the 5 injection sites : 2 injections into medial corrugator and lateral corrugator muscles respectively , and 1 injection in the procerus muscle ( Figure 1 ) .
FIGURE 1 : INJECTION SITES FOR GLABELLAR LINES [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cervical Dystonia The recommended initial dose of DAXXIFY for the treatment of cervical dystonia ranges from 125 Units to 250 Units given intramuscularly as a divided dose among affected muscles .
In patients previously treated with another botulinum toxin , their past dose , response to treatment , duration of effect , and adverse event history should be taken into consideration when determining the initial DAXXIFY dose .
A description of the average DAXXIFY dose and percentage of total dose injected into specific muscles in the pivotal clinical trials can be found in Section 14 .
Clinical studies with DAXXIFY in cervical dystonia suggest that the peak effect occurs between weeks 4 and 6 after injection .
Where dose modification is necessary for the treatment of cervical dystonia , the open - label repeat treatment safety study suggests that dose adjustment can be made in 50 Unit steps according to the individual patient ' s response .
The total dose administered in a single treatment should be between 125 Units and 300 Units .
2 . 3 Preparation and Dilution Technique DAXXIFY is supplied in single - dose 50 Unit and 100 Unit vials .
Prior to intramuscular injection , reconstitute each vial of DAXXIFY with the required amount of sterile , preservative - free 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to obtain a reconstituted solution at a concentration of 8 Units / 0 . 1 mL ( see Tables 1 and 2 ) .
Table 1 : DAXXIFY 50 Unit Vials Dilution Volume for ReconstitutionIndication Diluent [ 1 ] Added to 50 Unit Vial Resulting dose in Units per 0 . 1 mL Glabellar Lines , Adults 0 . 6 mL 8 Units [ 1 ] Preservative - free 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Table 2 : DAXXIFY 100 Unit Vials Dilution Volume for ReconstitutionIndication Diluent [ 1 ] Added to 100 Unit Vials Resulting dose in Units per 0 . 1 mL Glabellar Lines , Adults 1 . 2 mL 8 Units Cervical Dystonia , Adults 1 . 0 mL 10 Units 2 . 0 mL 5 Units [ 1 ] Preservative - free 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Slowly inject the diluent into the vial .
Discard the vial if a vacuum does not pull the diluent into the vial .
Dispose of any unused diluent .
Gently mix DAXXIFY with 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP by rotating the vial .
Reconstituted DAXXIFY solution is clear to slightly opalescent and colorless and free of particulate matter .
Inspect visually the reconstituted DAXXIFY for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or discolored or contains flakes or particles .
Administer DAXXIFY within 72 hours after reconstitution .
During this time period , store unused reconstituted DAXXIFY in a refrigerator between 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) and protected from light .
Do not freeze reconstituted DAXXIFY .
Dispose of any unused DAXXIFY .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For injection : 50 Units or 100 Units of white to off - white lyophilized powder in single - dose vial for reconstitution with sterile preservative - free 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
For injection : 50 Units or 100 Units sterile lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to any botulinum toxin preparation , DAXXIFY or any of the components in the DAXXIFY formulation ( 4 . 1 ) • Infection at the injection sites ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity DAXXIFY is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any botulinum toxin preparation , DAXXIFY or any of the components in the DAXXIFY formulation .
4 . 2 Infection at Injection Site DAXXIFY is contraindicated in the presence of infection at the proposed injection sites .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • The potency Units of DAXXIFY are not interchangeable with other preparations of other botulinum toxin products .
( 5 . 2 , 11 ) • Spread of toxin effects , swallowing and breathing difficulties can lead to death .
Seek immediate medical attention if respiratory , speech or swallowing difficulties occur .
( 5 . 1 ) • Adverse event reports have been received involving the cardiovascular system with botulinum toxin products , some with fatal outcomes .
Use caution when administering to patients with pre - existing cardiovascular disease .
( 5 . 5 ) • Concomitant neuromuscular disorder may exacerbate clinical effects of treatment .
( 5 . 6 ) • Use with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function or dysphagia .
( 5 . 7 ) • Potential serious adverse reactions after administration of DAXXIFY for unapproved use .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Spread of Toxin Effect Postmarketing safety data from other approved botulinum toxins suggest that botulinum toxin effects may be observed beyond the site of local injection .
The symptoms are consistent with the mechanism of action of botulinum toxin and may include asthenia , generalized muscle weakness , diplopia , blurred vision , ptosis , dysphagia , dysphonia , dysarthria , urinary incontinence , and breathing difficulties .
These symptoms have been reported hours to weeks after injection .
Swallowing and breathing difficulties can be life - threatening and there have been reports of death related to the spread of toxin effects .
The risk of symptoms is greatest in children treated for spasticity , but symptoms can occur in adults treated for spasticity and other conditions , and particularly in those patients who have underlying conditions that would predispose them to these symptoms .
In unapproved uses , including upper limb spasticity in children and approved indications , symptoms consistent with spread of toxin effect have been reported at doses comparable to or lower than the maximum recommended total dose .
Patients or caregivers should be advised to seek immediate medical care if swallowing , speech or respiratory difficulties occur .
Although no serious adverse reactions of distant spread of toxin effect associated with DAXXIFY have been reported in clinical studies of 40 Units for glabellar lines , these reactions are possible .
5 . 2 Lack of Interchangeability between Botulinum Toxin Products The potency Units of DAXXIFY are specific to the preparation and assay method utilized .
They are not interchangeable with other preparation of botulinum toxin products therefore , Units of biological activity of DAXXIFY cannot be compared to or converted to Units of any other botulinum toxin products assessed with any other specific assay method [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
5 . 3 Serious Adverse Reactions with Unapproved Use Serious adverse reactions , including excessive weakness , dysphagia , and aspiration pneumonia , with some adverse reactions associated with fatal outcomes , have been reported in patients who received botulinum toxin injections for unapproved uses .
In these cases , the adverse reactions may have resulted from the administration of botulinum toxin products to the site of injection and / or adjacent structures .
In some cases , patients had pre - existing dysphagia or other significant disabilities .
There is insufficient information to identify factors associated with an increased risk for adverse reactions associated with the unapproved uses of botulinum toxin products .
5 . 4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Serious and / or immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been reported for botulinum toxin products .
These reactions include anaphylaxis , serum sickness , urticaria , soft tissue edema , and dyspnea .
If such a reaction occurs , discontinue further injection of DAXXIFY and immediately institute appropriate medical therapy .
The use of DAXXIFY in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any botulinum toxin preparation , DAXXIFY or any of its formulation components could lead to a life - threatening allergic reaction .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 . 1 ) ] 5 . 5 Cardiovascular System There have been reports following administration of botulinum toxins of adverse events involving the cardiovascular system , including arrhythmia and myocardial infarction , some with fatal outcomes .
Some of these patients had risk factors including pre - existing cardiovascular disease .
Use caution when administering to patients with pre - existing cardiovascular disease .
5 . 6 Pre - Existing Neuromuscular Disorders Monitor patients with peripheral motor neuropathic diseases , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis , or neuromuscular junctional disorders ( e . g . , myasthenia gravis or Lambert - Eaton syndrome ) for increased neuromuscular compromise following botulinum toxin treatment .
Patients with neuromuscular disorders may be at increased risk of clinically significant effects including generalized muscle weakness , diplopia , ptosis , dysphonia , dysarthria , severe dysphagia and respiratory compromise from typical doses of DAXXIFY .
5 . 7 Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties Treatment with botulinum toxin products , including DAXXIFY , can result in swallowing or breathing difficulties .
These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after injection with botulinum toxin .
Patients with pre - existing swallowing or breathing difficulties may be more susceptible to these complications .
In most cases , this is a consequence of weakening of muscles in the area of injection that are involved in breathing or swallowing .
When distant effects occur , additional respiratory mechanisms may be involved .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] Deaths as a complication of severe dysphagia have been reported after treatment with botulinum toxin products .
Dysphagia may persist for several months .
Aspiration may result from severe dysphagia and is a particular risk when treating patients in whom swallowing or respiratory function is already compromised .
Treatment with botulinum toxins , including DAXXIFY , may weaken neck muscles that serve as accessory muscles of ventilation .
This may result in a critical loss of breathing capacity in patients with respiratory disorders who may have become dependent upon these accessory muscles .
There have been postmarketing reports from other botulinum toxin products of serious breathing difficulties , including respiratory failure .
Patients treated with botulinum toxin may require immediate medical attention should they develop problems with swallowing , speech or respiratory disorders .
5 . 8 Facial Anatomy in the Treatment of Glabellar Lines Use caution when administering DAXXIFY to patients with surgical alterations to the facial anatomy , marked facial asymmetry , excessive dermatochalasis , deep dermal scarring , thick sebaceous skin , inflammation at the injection site ( s ) , pre - existing eyelid or eyebrow ptosis , when excessive weakness or atrophy is present in the target muscles , or the inability to substantially lessen glabellar lines even by physically spreading them apart .
5 . 9 Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions in Patients Treated for Glabellar Lines Dry eye has been reported with the use of botulinum toxin products in the treatment of glabellar lines .
Reduced tear production , reduced blinking , and corneal disorders may occur with use of botulinum toxins , including DAXXIFY .
If symptoms of dry eye ( e . g . , eye irritation , photophobia , or visual changes ) persist , consider referring patient to an ophthalmologist .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling : • Spread of Toxin Effect [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Hypersensitivity Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Dysphagia and Breathing Difficulties [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] The most commonly observed adverse reactions are : Glabellar Lines ( ≥ 1 % ) : headache ( 6 % ) , eyelid ptosis ( 2 % ) and facial paresis ( 1 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) Cervical Dystonia ( ≥ 5 % ) : headache ( 8 % ) and injection site pain ( 7 % ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Revance Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 373 - 8669 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The most common side effects from treatment with DAXXIFY usually occur within one to two weeks after injection and while generally transient , may have a duration of several weeks or months .
Glabellar Lines In the two randomized , placebo - controlled , Phase 3 clinical trials that assess the use of DAXXIFY for the temporary improvement in the appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines , GL - 1 and GL - 2 , 406 subjects received a single dose treatment of 40 Units DAXXIFY and 203 subjects received placebo .
The most frequent adverse reactions are presented in Table 3 .
TABLE 3 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ≥ 1 % and More Frequent than Placebo in Pooled Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Trials for Glabellar LinesAdverse Reaction DAXXIFY Placebo N = 406 N = 203 n ( % ) n ( % ) Headache 26 ( 6 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) Eyelid ptosis 9 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Facial paresis [ 1 ] 5 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) [ 1 ] Facial paresis , including facial asymmetry .
Injection site reactions were reported in 6 % of subjects treated with DAXXIFY and in 6 % of subjects treated with placebo ( these reactions included injection site pain , injection site erythema , injection site oedema , injection site bruising , injection site hematoma , injection site papule , injection site pruritus ) .
In an 84 - week open label repeat - dose safety study in glabellar lines , 2691 subjects were treated with 40 U of DAXXIFY .
Of these , 2380 subjects received one treatment with DAXXIFY , 882 received two treatments with DAXXIFY and 568 subjects received three treatments with DAXXIFY .
Adverse reactions were reported in 535 of the 2691 subjects ( 20 % ) .
The adverse reaction profile was similar to that reported in single dose trials .
Injection site reactions were the most common adverse reactions , reported in 9 % of subjects [ including injection site pain ( 4 % ) , injection site erythema ( 3 % ) , injection site oedema ( 3 % ) , injection site bruising ( 1 % ) , injection site papule ( < 1 % ) , injection site pruritus ( < 1 % ) ] , followed by headache ( 5 % ) , edema ( 2 % ) , erythema ( 2 % ) and eyelid ptosis in 1 % of subjects .
The incidence of these adverse reactions did not increase with multiple re - treatments .
Cervical Dystonia In the randomized , placebo - controlled , Phase 3 clinical trial to assess the use of DAXXIFY for the treatment of cervical dystonia , 255 subjects received a dose of DAXXIFY ( 125 subjects were randomized to receive 125 Units and 130 subjects were randomized to receive 250 Units ) and 46 subjects received placebo .
Table 4 lists adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of DAXXIFY treated subjects and more frequent than placebo .
Of note , dysphagia occurred in 1 . 6 % and 3 . 9 % of subjects in the 125 Units and 250 Units dose groups , respectively .
TABLE 4 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ≥ 5 % and More Frequent than Placebo in the Phase 3 Double Blind , Placebo Controlled Clinical Trial for Cervical DystoniaAdverse Reaction DAXXIFY N = 255 n ( % ) Placebo N = 46 n ( % ) Injection Site Pain 17 ( 7 % ) 2 ( 4 % ) Headache 20 ( 8 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) In a 52 - week open label repeat - dose safety study in cervical dystonia , 357 subjects ( 271 from the randomized trial , 86 newly enrolled ) received up to 4 treatments with DAXXIFY .
Of these , 28 subjects received one treatment with DAXXIFY , 95 subjects received two treatments , 169 received three treatments , and 65 received four treatments with DAXXIFY .
Treating investigators started 21 % of subjects on a 125 Units dose and 69 % on 250 Units , based on history of botulinum toxin use , disease severity , and clinical judgement .
Across the up to four treatment sessions , 13 % of subjects remained on a dose of 125 Units , while treating physicians placed 87 % of subjects on at least one dose above 125 Units , 77 % on one or more doses of 250 Units or higher , and 37 % on at least one dose of 300 Units .
Adverse reactions were reported in 138 subjects ( 20 % ) .
There were no treatment - related serious adverse events .
The adverse reaction profile was similar to that reported in single dose trials .
The most commonly reported TEAEs overall ( ≥ 3 % of subjects overall ) were dysphagia in 10 . 4 % of subjects ( 4 . 4 % of treatments ) , muscular weakness in 9 . 5 % of subjects ( 5 . 2 % of treatments ) , injection site pain in 7 . 6 % of subjects ( 3 . 8 % of treatments ) , and headache in 5 . 9 % of subjects ( 2 . 5 % of treatments ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with DAXXIFY .
However , the potential for certain drugs to potentiate the effects of DAXXIFY warrant consideration given the potential risks involved and should be used with caution .
• Aminoglycosides or other agents interfering with neuromuscular transmission • Anticholinergic drugs • Botulinum neurotoxin products • Muscle relaxants Aminoglycoside antibiotics , anticholinergic agents or any other agents that interfere with neuromuscular transmission may potentiate the effect of DAXXIFY ; co - administer only with caution and close observation .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATION 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on DAXXIFY use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In animal reproduction studies , intramuscular administration of DAXXIFY during pregnancy resulted in adverse effects on fetal growth ( decreased fetal body weight and skeletal ossification ) at maternally toxic doses approximately equivalent to 40 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriages in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Embryofetal development studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with DAXXIFY .
For comparison of animal to human doses based on a body weight comparison , the MRHD is set at 40 Units / subject ( 0 . 67 Units / kg for an average 60 kg subject ) .
Intramuscular administration of DAXXIFY ( 3 , 10 or 30 Units / kg ) to pregnant rats four times during the period of organogenesis ( on gestation days 7 , 10 , 13 , and 16 ) caused decreased fetal body weight and decreased fetal skeletal ossification at the highest dose , which was associated with maternal toxicity .
No embryofetal developmental toxicity was noted at doses up to 10 Units / kg which is 15 times the MRHD .
Intramuscular administration of DAXXIFY ( 0 . 02 , 0 . 1 , 0 . 48 or 2 . 4 Units / kg / day ) to pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis ( total of 13 doses ) resulted in maternal lethality at 2 . 4 Units / kg / day and significant decreased maternal body weight at 0 . 48 Units / kg / day .
No embryofetal developmental toxicity was noted at doses up to 0 . 48 Units / kg / day which is approximately equivalent to the MRHD .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of DAXXIFY in human or animal milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for DAXXIFY and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from DAXXIFY or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of DAXXIFY in patients less than 18 years of age have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Glabellar Lines Among the 406 subjects treated with DAXXIFY in the placebo - controlled clinical trials , 36 subjects were 65 years or older .
There was no increase in the incidence of treatment - related adverse events in patients over 65 years treated with DAXXIFY .
Clinical studies of DAXXIFY did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they responded differently from younger subjects .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] Cervical Dystonia Among the 255 subjects treated with DAXXIFY in the placebo - controlled clinical trial , 83 subjects were 65 years or older .
There was no increase in the incidence of treatment - related adverse events in patients over 65 years treated with DAXXIFY .
Clinical studies of DAXXIFY did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and older to determine whether they responded differently from younger subjects .
[ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] 10 OVERDOSAGE Excessive doses of DAXXIFY may be expected to produce neuromuscular weakness with a variety of symptoms .
Respiratory support may be required where excessive doses cause paralysis of the respiratory muscles .
In the event of overdose , the patient should be medically monitored for symptoms or excessive muscle weakness or muscle paralysis .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , ( 5 . 4 ) ] Symptomatic treatment may be necessary .
Symptoms of overdose are not likely to be present immediately following injection .
Should accidental injection or oral ingestion occur , the person should be medically supervised for several weeks for signs and symptoms of excessive muscle weakness or paralysis .
In the event of overdose , antitoxin raised against botulinum toxin is available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) in Atlanta , GA .
However , the antitoxin will not reverse any botulinum toxin - induced effects already apparent by the time of antitoxin administration .
In the event of suspected or actual cases of botulinum toxin poisoning , please contact your local or state Health Department to process a request for antitoxin through the CDC .
If you do not receive a response within 30 minutes , please contact the CDC directly at 1 - 770 - 488 - 7100 .
11 DESCRIPTION DaxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and neuromuscular blocking agent .
DaxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm is a 150 kDa botulinum toxin without accessory proteins purified from the bacterium Clostridium botulinum type A . DAXXIFY ( daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm ) for injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , white to off - white lyophilized powder in a single - dose vial for intramuscular use after reconstitution .
DAXXIFY is formulated with a 35 amino acid peptide excipient ( RTP004 ) that prevents surface adsorption and promotes thermal stability of DAXXIFY .
Each vial contains 50 Units or 100 Units of daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm , L - histidine ( 0 . 14 mg ) , L - histidine - HCl monohydrate ( 0 . 65 mg ) , polysorbate 20 ( 0 . 1 mg ) , RTP004 peptide ( 11 . 7 mcg ) , and trehalose dihydrate ( 36 mg ) .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action DAXXIFY blocks cholinergic transmission at the neuromuscular junction by inhibiting the release of acetylcholine .
When injected into skeletal muscle , DAXXIFY is internalized into the nerve terminal , translocates into the neuronal cytosol where it cleaves SNAP25 , a protein necessary for synaptic vesicle membrane docking and subsequent release of acetylcholine which produces a dose dependent decrease of muscle function .
Recovery of activity is gradual and results from the degradation of neurotoxin light chain in the neurons with a contribution from the formation of axonal sprouts .
Muscle reinnervation occurs , leading to a slow reversal of the pharmacological effects of DAXXIFY .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics No formal pharmacodynamics studies have been conducted with DAXXIFY .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Using currently available analytical technology , it is not possible to detect DAXXIFY in the peripheral blood following intramuscular injection at the recommended dose .
12 . 6 Immunogenicity The observed incidence of anti - drug antibodies is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay .
Differences in assay methods preclude meaningful comparisons of the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of anti - drug antibodies in other studies , including those of DAXXIFY .
Glabellar Lines In the 2786 subjects receiving up to 3 treatments with DAXXIFY in the Phase 3 studies , the incidence of anti DAXXIFY antibody formation was 0 . 8 % to daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm and 1 . 2 % to RTP004 , the 35 amino acid peptide excipient .
No subjects developed neutralizing antibodies to DAXXIFY .
Cervical Dystonia In the 382 subjects receiving up to 5 treatments with DAXXIFY in the Phase 3 studies , the incidence of anti DAXXIFY antibody formation was 1 . 8 % to daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm and 2 . 4 % to RTP004 , the 35 amino acid peptide excipient .
Two subjects who had been previously treated with botulinum toxin tested positive for neutralizing antibodies .
Both subjects exhibited a clinical response to treatment in the open label study .
Because of the low occurrence of anti - drug antibodies , the effect of these antibodies on the PK , PD , safety , and / or effectiveness of DAXXIFY products is unknown .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of DAXXIFY .
Genotoxicity studies have not been conducted for DAXXIFY .
In fertility and early embryonic development studies in rats , intramuscular administration of ( 3 , 10 or 20 Units / kg in males and 3 , 10 or 30 Units / kg in females ) to either male or female rats prior to mating and during mating ( 7 doses , 1 week apart for males ; and 4 doses , 1 week apart for females ) to untreated animals , caused reduced fertility at doses associated with paternal or maternal toxicity as indicated by reductions in body weight gain and food intake .
No effects on fertility were noted at 3 Units / kg in males or 10 Units / kg in females , which are approximately 4 and 15 times , respectively , the MRHD .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Glabellar Lines Two randomized , double - blind , multi - center , placebo - controlled clinical trials , Studies GL - 1 and GL - 2 , were conducted to evaluate DAXXIFY for use in the temporary improvement of moderate - to - severe glabellar lines in adults .
The 2 trials enrolled a total of 609 subjects ( ≥ 18 years old ) with glabellar lines of at least moderate severity at maximum frown .
A total of 405 subjects were randomized and 406 were treated with 40 Units of DAXXIFY and 204 subjects were randomized and 203 were treated with an equal volume of placebo .
Subjects were excluded if they had eyelid ptosis , deep dermal scarring , excessive dermatochalasis or an inability to lessen glabellar lines by physically spreading them apart .
Enrolled subjects were 21 to 75 years old , with a mean age of 50 years , were predominantly female ( 87 % ) and Caucasian ( 86 % ) .
The total dose was delivered in 5 equally divided intramuscular injections of 8 Units each to specific sites in the glabellar ( Figure 1 ) .
Subjects were followed for at least 24 weeks after treatment .
Efficacy was determined through the assessment by investigators and subjects of frown wrinkle severity at maximum frown using a 4 - point scale ( 0 = none , 1 = mild , 2 = moderate , 3 = severe ) .
The primary efficacy endpoint ( treatment success ) was defined as achieving a score of 0 or 1 ( none or mild ) and an improvement of at least 2 points from baseline for both the investigator ' s and subject ' s assessments at Week 4 .
The percentages of subjects with treatment success at Week 4 are presented in Table 5 .
TABLE 5 : Percentage of Subjects Achieving a Score of None or Mild and ≥ 2 - Grade Improvement from Baseline on the Investigator and Subject Assessment of Glabellar Line Severity at Maximum Frown at Week 4 STUDY GL - 1 STUDY GL - 2 DAXXIFY ( N = 201 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 102 ) n ( % ) Treatment Difference and 95 % Confidence Interval DAXXIFY ( N = 205 ) n ( % ) Placebo ( N = 101 ) n ( % ) Treatment Difference and 95 % Confidence Interval Treatment Success [ 1 ] 148 ( 74 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 74 % ( 68 % , 80 % ) 152 ( 74 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 74 % ( 68 % , 80 % ) Individual Components Investigator Assessment 172 ( 86 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) --- 187 ( 92 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) --- Subject Assessment 152 ( 76 % ) 0 --- 156 ( 77 % ) 0 --- [ 1 ] A score of 0 or 1 ( none or mild ) and ≥ 2 - Grade Improvement from Baseline on both the Investigator and Subject Assessment Figure 2 shows the proportion of subjects , over 36 weeks , rated as 0 or 1 ( none or mild ) by the investigator , 0 or 1 by the subject , and 0 or 1 with at least a 2 - point improvement from their baseline based on both the investigator and subject ratings .
Subjects were followed through at least Week 24 and then were discontinued from the study when both the investigator and subject scores returned to baseline .
Subjects who returned to baseline levels prior to Week 36 were counted as non - responders following study discontinuation .
FIGURE 2 : Proportion of subjects rated as 0 or 1 ( none or mild ) by investigator , 0 or 1 by the subject , and 0 or 1 with at least 2 - point improvement from their baseline ( based on both the investigator and subject ratings ) in Study GL - 1 and Study GL - 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Treatment Success is defined as a score of 0 or 1 ( none or mild ) and ≥ 2 - grade improvement from baseline on both the investigator and subject assessment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Cervical Dystonia DAXXIFY has been investigated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter trial in a total of 301 subjects .
Subjects had a clinical diagnosis of cervical dystonia with baseline Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale ( TWSTRS ) total score ≥ 20 , TWSTRS severity score ≥ 15 , TWSTRS disability score ≥ 3 , and TWSTRS pain score ≥ 1 .
For subjects who had previously received a botulinum toxin treatment for cervical dystonia , the trial required that ≥ 14 weeks had passed since the most recent botulinum toxin administration .
Subjects were randomized ( 3 : 3 : 1 ) to receive a single administration of DAXXIFY 125 Units ( n = 125 ) , DAXXIFY 250 Units ( n = 130 ) , or placebo ( n = 46 ) .
Each subject received 2 . 5 mL of reconstituted study agent divided amongst the affected muscles as selected by the investigator .
Table 6 indicates the treated muscles along with the number of subjects treated and DAXXIFY units .
TABLE 6 : Summary of Muscles Treated In Each DAXXIFY Treatment GroupUnilateral Muscle injected DAXXIFY 125 U DAXXIFY 250 U Number of subjects Median Units ( min , max ) 25 th , 75 th percentile Number of subjects Median Units ( min , max ) 25 th , 75 th percentile Levator Scapulae 106 20 ( 10 , 30 ) 15 , 25 105 50 ( 20 , 60 ) 40 , 50 Longissimus Capitis and Cervices 45 15 ( 10 , 30 ) 10 , 20 58 40 ( 20 , 60 ) 30 , 50 Scalenus Complex 55 15 ( 10 , 15 ) 10 , 15 44 30 ( 20 , 30 ) 20 , 30 Splenius Capitis 120 25 ( 10 , 50 ) 15 , 35 127 50 ( 20 , 100 ) 40 , 70 Splenius Cervices 65 20 ( 10 , 50 ) 10 , 25 71 40 ( 20 , 100 ) 30 , 50 Sternocleidomastoid 115 25 ( 10 , 25 ) 20 , 25 121 50 ( 20 , 50 ) 40 , 50 Trapezius 105 20 ( 15 , 40 ) 15 , 25 105 40 ( 30 , 80 ) 40 , 50 The mean age of study subjects was 58 years , and 65 % of the subjects were women .
At study baseline , 84 % of subjects had previously received a botulinum toxin as treatment for cervical dystonia .
The study was completed by 97 % of study subjects .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change in the TWSTRS total score from baseline averaged over Weeks 4 and 6 .
The study met its primary efficacy endpoint at both doses , demonstrating a clinically meaningful improvement in the signs and symptoms of cervical dystonia at the average of Weeks 4 and 6 .
Compared to placebo , subjects treated with either 125 Units or 250 Units showed a statistically significant greater change from baseline ( - 12 . 7 and - 10 . 9 respectively vs . - 4 . 3 , p < 0 . 0001 and p = 0 . 0006 ) as measured on the TWSTRS Total Score .
A similar pattern of significant improvement versus placebo was observed in the clinician global impression of change ( CGIC ) and patient global impression of change ( PGIC ) scales , as well as the TWSTRS subscales of pain , severity and disability .
Time to return of symptoms is shown in Figure 3 .
FIGURE 3 : Plot of Time to Loss of 80 % of TWSTRS Peak Effect by Study Visit [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied DAXXIFY ( daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm ) for injection is a sterile lyophilized powder supplied in a single - dose vial in the following sizes : Carton containing one 50 Units / Vial NDC 72960 - 111 - 01 Carton containing one 100 Units / Vial NDC 72960 - 112 - 01 Storage and Handling Unopened DAXXIFY vials should be stored at room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) or refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in the original carton to protect from light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Swallowing , Speaking or Breathing Difficulties , or other Unusual Symptoms Advise patients or caregivers to seek immediate medical care if swallowing , speech or respiratory disorders arise or existing symptoms worsen .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ( 5 . 4 ) ] Ability to Operate Machinery or Vehicles Advise patients if they develop any unusual symptoms such as loss of strength , muscle weakness , blurred vision , or drooping eyelids occur , they should avoid driving a car or engaging in other potentially hazardous activities .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Ophthalmic Adverse Reactions Inform patients that DAXXIFY injection may cause eye dryness .
Advise patients to report symptoms of eye dryness ( e . g . , eye pain , eye irritation , photosensitivity , or changes in vision ) to their doctor .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Manufactured by : Revance Therapeutics , Inc .
Newark , CA 94560 U . S . License Number 2101 © 20 XX Revance Therapeutics , Inc .
DAXXIFY is a trademark of Revance Therapeutics , Inc .
PI761127 - 3 . 1 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Issued : 9 / 2022 MEDICATION GUIDE DAXXIFY ™ ( dax ' - i - fye ) daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm for injection , for intramuscular use What is the most important information I should know about DAXXIFY ?
DAXXIFY may cause serious side effects that can be life threatening .
Call your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have any of these problems after treatment with DAXXIFY : • Problems swallowing , speaking , or breathing .
These problems can happen hours , days , or weeks after an injection of DAXXIFY if the muscles that you use to breathe and swallow become weak after the injection .
Death can happen as a complication if you have severe problems with swallowing or breathing after treatment with DAXXIFY .
• People with certain breathing problems may need to use muscles in their neck to help them breathe .
These people may be at greater risk for serious breathing problems with DAXXIFY .
• Swallowing problems may last for several months .
People who cannot swallow well may need a feeding tube to receive food and water .
If swallowing problems are severe , food or liquids may go into your lungs .
People who already have swallowing or breathing problems before receiving DAXXIFY have the highest risk of getting these problems .
• Spread of toxin effects .
In some cases , the effect of botulinum toxin may affect areas of the body away from the injection site and cause symptoms of a serious condition called botulism .
The symptoms of botulism include : • loss of strength and muscle weakness all over the body • blurred vision and drooping eyelids • trouble saying words clearly • trouble breathing • double vision • hoarseness or change or loss of voice • loss of bladder control • trouble swallowing These symptoms can happen hours , days , or weeks after you receive an injection of DAXXIFY .
These problems could make it unsafe for you to drive a car or do other dangerous activities .
See " What should I avoid while receiving DAXXIFY ? "
Although no serious adverse reactions of distant spread of toxin effect associated with DAXXIFY have been reported in clinical studies of 40 Units for glabellar lines , these reactions are possible .
What is DAXXIFY ?
DAXXIFY is a prescription medicine for adults that is injected into muscles to temporarily improve the look of moderate to severe frown lines between the eyebrows ( glabellar lines ) .
It is not known if DAXXIFY is safe and effective in children less than 18 years of age .
Do not receive DAXXIFY if you : • are allergic to DAXXIFY or any of the ingredients in DAXXIFY .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of ingredients in DAXXIFY .
• had an allergic reaction to any other botulinum toxin product such as rimabotulinumtoxinB ( MYOBLOC ) , onabotulinumtoxinA ( BOTOX , BOTOX COSMETIC ) , abobotulinumtoxinA ( DYSPORT ) , incobotulinumtoxinA ( XEOMIN ) or prabotulinumtoxinA - xvfs ( JEUVEAU ) .
• have a skin infection at the planned injection site .
Before receiving DAXXIFY , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • have a disease that affects your muscles and nerves ( such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis [ ALS or Lou Gehrig ' s disease ] , myasthenia gravis or Lambert - Eaton syndrome ) .
See " What is the most important information I should know about DAXXIFY ? "
• have had any side effect from any other botulinum toxin in the past • have or have had a breathing problem , such as asthma or emphysema • have or have had swallowing problems • have or have had heart problems • have or have had bleeding problems • have weakness of your forehead muscles , such as trouble raising your eyebrows • have drooping eyelids • plan to have surgery • have had surgery on your face • have had dry eye problems with the use of botulinum toxin products in the past • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if DAXXIFY can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if DAXXIFY passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during treatment with DAXXIFY .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Using DAXXIFY with certain other medicines may cause serious side effects .
Do not start any new medicines until you have told your healthcare provider that you have received DAXXIFY in the past .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you : • have received any other botulinum toxin product in the last 4 months .
• have received injections of botulinum toxin such as rimabotulinumtoxinB ( MYOBLOC ) , onabotulinumtoxinA ( BOTOX , BOTOX COSMETIC ) , abobotulinumtoxinA ( DYSPORT ) , prabotulinumtoxinA ( JEUVEAU ) and incobotulinumtoxinA , ( XEOMIN ) in the past .
Be sure your healthcare provider knows exactly which product you received .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How will I receive DAXXIFY ?
• DAXXIFY is an injection that your healthcare provider will give you .
• DAXXIFY is injected into your affected muscles .
Your healthcare provider may change your dose of DAXXIFY , until you and your healthcare provider find the best dose for you .
• DAXXIFY should not be received more than 1 time every 3 months .
• Your healthcare provider will tell you how often you will receive your dose of DAXXIFY injections .
What should I avoid while receiving DAXXIFY ?
DAXXIFY may cause loss of strength or general muscle weakness , blurred vision , or drooping eyelids within hours to weeks of receiving DAXXIFY .
If this happens , do not drive a car , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities .
See " What is the most important information I should know about DAXXIFY ?
What are the possible side effects of DAXXIFY ?
DAXXIFY may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about DAXXIFY ? "
• Heart problems .
Irregular heartbeat and heart attack that have resulted in death , have happened in some people who received botulinum toxin products .
• Eye problems .
Dry eye , reduced blinking , and corneal problems have happened in some people who receive DAXXIFY to treat glabellar lines .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop eye pain or irritation , sensitivity to light , or changes in your vision .
• Allergic reactions .
Symptoms of an allergic reaction to DAXXIFY may include : itching , rash , redness , swelling , wheezing , trouble breathing , or dizziness or feeling faint .
Tell your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have wheezing or trouble breathing , or if you feel dizzy or faint .
The most common side effects of DAXXIFY include : • headache • eyelid drooping • loss of the ability to move the muscles in your face These are not all the possible side effects of DAXXIFY .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effect to Revance Therapeutics , Inc . at 1 - 877 - 373 - 8669 .
General information about DAXXIFY .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about DAXXIFY that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in DAXXIFY ?
Active ingredient : daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm Inactive ingredients : L - histidine , L - histidine - HCl monohydrate , polysorbate 20 , RTP004 peptide , trehalose dihydrate Manufactured by : Revance Therapeutics , Inc .
Newark , CA 94560 U . S . License Number 2101 © 2022 Revance Therapeutics , Inc .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
MG761127 - 0 . 6 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 2 mL Vial Carton daxibotulinumtoxinA - lanm DAXXIFY ™ FOR INJECTION 100 units / vial REVANCE ® ATTENTION : Each patient is required to receive the enclosed Medication Guide .
Rx only 1 Single - Dose Vial For intramuscular use [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
