Active ingredients Purpose Zinc Oxide 14 . 5 % Sunscreen Uses Helps prevent sunburn .
If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Uses If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures about 120ºF .
For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs .
When using this product , keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
Directions Shake well .
Do not spray on face .
If using onface , spray onto hands and rub on skin .
Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply : After 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
Immediately after towel drying .
At least every 2 hours .
Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
Sun protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : - limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . - wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses .
Inactive ingredients : Bentonite , Bisabolol , Butyloctyl Salicylate , Caffeine , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Caprylyl Glycol , Carthamus Tinctorius ( Safflower ) Seed Oil , Cellulose Gum , Cetearyl Alcohol , Coco - Glucoside , Glycerin , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Jojoba Esters , Lactococcus Ferment Lysate , Methyl Dihydroabietate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Parfum ( natural ) , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Tocopherol , Water .
Other information Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Questions or comments ?
Call toll free 1 - 888 - 322 - 2466 Pacifica Beauty LLC Portland , Oregon Sun Plus Skincare SPF 30 Mineral Sunscreen Coconut Probiotic Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
