Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most athelete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • prevents the recurrence of most athelete ' s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , cracking and burning Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Avoid Spraying eyes .
do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Keep out of reach of children .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • if irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks • if conditions persist , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot : wash the feet and dry throughly ; spray a thing layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clean with a pin Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredients BHT , Isobutane , Kaolin , PPG - 12 - Buteth - 16 , SD Alcohol 40 - B , Zea Mays ( Corn ) Starch Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Meijer Antifungal Athlete ' s Foot Powder Spray Tolnaftate 1 % • Cures most athlete ' s foot • Relieves itching & burning • Talc free NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
