Active ingredient Undecylenic acid 25 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For the cure of most tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) and tinea corporis ( ringworm ) .
For relief of : • itching • burning • redness • irritation • scaling • soreness • discomfort which may accompany these conditions Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breastfeeding consult a healthcare professional before use .
Do not use on children 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes Use only as directed by a doctor on persons with highly sensitive skin .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • there is no improvement within 4 weeks • irritation occurs Keep out of children .
If accidental ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read all warnings and directions .
Use only as directed .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • twist pen base with 3 clicks to saturate brush • apply a thin layer of the product over the affecter area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • brush applicator allows for easy application under nails and surrounding cuticle area • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If conditions persists longer , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from freezing .
If freezing occurs , warm to room temperature .
• keep tightly closed when not in use Inactive ingredient isopropyl palmitate Questions ?
Call 1 - 248 - 449 - 9300 Principal Display Panel QC Quality Choice Maximum Strength Antifungal Pen Fungus Treatment 25 % Undecylenic Acid Eliminates Fungus on Fingers , Toes and Around Nails Pre - Filled Pen with Brush Applicator Convenient & Easy to Use Dries Quickly Non - Oily , Clear Formula . 05 FL OZ ( 1 . 7 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
