Active ingredient Undecylenic acid 25 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For cure of most tinea pedis ( athete ' s foot ) and tinea corporis ( ringworm ) For relief of : • discomforts which may accompany these conditons • itching • burning • redness • irritation • scaling • soreness Warnings For external use only .
If pregnant or breastfeeding consult a healthcare professional before use .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by the doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
use only as directed by the doctor on persons with highly sensitive skin .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • there is no improvement within 4 weeks • irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If accidental ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read all warnings and directions .
Use only as directed .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and changes shoes and socks atleast once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
• this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from freezing .
If freezing occurs warm to room temperature • keep tightly closed when not in use Inactive ingredient Isopropyl palmitate Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel RITE AID PHARMACY MAXIMUM STRENGTH Anti - fungal Solution Undecylenic Acid 25 % Eliminates fungus on fingers , toes & around nails Easy to apply applicator brush Dries quickly Non - oily , clear formula No unpleasant odor 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
