Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • prevent the recurrence of athlete ' s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , cracking and burning Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Contents under pressure .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Do not use or store near heat or open flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate container .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within four weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer of the product over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks • if condition persists , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot : wash the feet and dry thoroughly ; spray a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clean with a pin Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68º and 86ºF ) Inactive ingredients BHT , isobutane , PPG - 12 - buteth - 16 , SD alcohol 40 - B Questions ?
1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Principal Display Panel equate Antifungal Athlete ' s Foot Liquid Spray Tolnaftate 1 % Antifungal Soothes the burn • Relieves itching , cracking and burning • Cures most athlete ' s foot and prevents recurrences NET WT 5 . 3 OZ ( 150 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
