Active ingredient Undecylenic acid 25 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses For the cure of most tinea pedis ( athlete ' s foot ) and tinea corporis ( ringworm ) For relief of : • itching • burning • redness • irritation • scaling • discomforts which may accompany these conditions • soreness Warnings For external use only If pregnant or breastfeeding consult a healthcare professional before use .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes Use only as directed by a doctor on persons with highly sensitive skin .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • there is no improvement within 4 weeks • irritation occurs Keep out of children .
If accidental ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read all warning and directions .
Use only as directed .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • twist pen base with 3 clicks to saturate brush • apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by the doctor • the brush applicator allows for easy application under nails and surrounding cuticle area • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition persists longer , consult a doctor .
• this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from freezing .
if freezing occurs , warm to room temperature .
• keep tightly closed when not in use Inactive ingredient isopropyl palmitate Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Principal Display Panel Equate Anti - Fungal Pen 25 % UNDECYLENIC ACID MAXIMUM STRENGTH Eliminates fungus on fingers , toes and around nails • Pre - filled pen with applicator brush • Convenient and easy to use • Dries quickly • Non - oily , clear formula NET 0 . 05 FL OZ ( 1 . 7 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
