Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) and jock itch ( tinea cruris ) • can prevent recurrence of most athlete ' s foot • relieves sypmtoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning , cracking , and chafing associated with jock itch For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; 2 weeks for jock itch • irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • for athlete ' s foot , pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; use daily for 2 weeks for jock itch • if condition persists , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • if nozzle clogs , clean with a pin Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredients BHT , isobutane , kaolin , PPG - 12 - Buteth - 16 , SD alcohol 40 - B , zea mays ( corn ) starch Questions ?
Call 1 - 888 - 423 - 0139 Principal Display Panel TopCare health MEDICATED Athlete ' s Foot Powder Spray TOLNAFTATE 1 % • ANTIFUNGAL • Cures Most Athlete ' s Foot & Prevents Recurrences • Relieves Itching , Cracking & Burning • Talc - Free NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
