Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses for the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • insect bites • poison ivy • poison oak • poison sumac • soaps • jewelry • detergents • cosmetics • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Keep away from heat , sparks and open flame .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Do not store at temperatures above 120 ºF .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents can be harmful or fatal .
Do not use • for external genital , vaginal or anal itching • with other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor • in or near the eyes • for diaper rash When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • if product gets into the eye , flush with water for 15 minutes Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens • symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have consulted a doctor Keep out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • twist cap counterclockwise to unlock actuator • adults and children 2 years of age and older : spray affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : do not use , consult a doctor • to apply to face , spray into palm of hand and gently apply Inactive ingredients aloe barbadensis leaf juice , avena sativa ( oat ) kernel extract , citric acid , disodium EDTA , ethoxydiglycol , glycerin , maltodextrin , menthyl lactate , methyl gluceth - 20 , PEG - 8 , SD alcohol 40 - B , sodium citrate , water Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Cutter Poison Ivy Itch Relief For Poison Ivy , Oak , & Sumac Maximum Strength Relieves Itching Calms irritated skin No touch , no mess HYDROCORTISONE 1 % / ANTI - ITCH NET WT 4 . 0 0 Z ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
