Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzocaine 20 % ( W / W ) Purpose Oral anesthetic Use Temporarily relieves pain associated with the following mouth and gum irritations : • toothache • sore gums • canker sores • braces • minor dental procedures Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other “ caine ” anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and older : • apply to affected area using applicator tip • use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor • children under 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information • do not use if package has been opened • store at 20 - 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Inactive ingredients Benzyl Alcohol , D & C Yellow no . 10 , FD & C Blue no . 1 , FD & C Red no . 40 , Methylparaben , Natural and Artificial Flavor , Polyethylene Glycol , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Saccharin , Water MADE IN CANADA DISTRIBUTED BY : MIDWOOD BRANDS , LLC 10611 MONROE RD .
MATTHEWS , NC 28105 [ MULTIMEDIA ] FAMILY WELLNESS MAXIMUM STRENGTH Oral Pain Relief 20 % Benzocaine Liquid Anesthetic 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 14 . 7 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
