Active ingredient Miconazole nitrate 2 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • cures most athlete ' s foot ( linea pedis ) , ringworm ( linea corporis ) and jock itch ( linea cruris ) • relieves symptoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching burning and cracking Warnings For external use only .
Extremely flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate , contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes or mouth • use only as directed Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling contents cans be harmful or fatal .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • no improvement within 4 weeks for athlete ' s foot and ringworm ; 2 weeks for jock itch • irritation occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes ; wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks ; for jock itch , use daily for 2 weeks • if conditions persist , consult a doctor • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredients acetone , ethoxyglycol , propylene glycol , SD alcohol 40 - B ( 74 % w / w ) , tocopheryl acetate Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Premier Medicated Antifungal Continuous Liquid Spray Miconazole Nitrate 2 % Sprays At Any Angle !
• Cures and prevents most Athletes Foot • Relieves itching and burning NET WT 5 . 3 FL OZ ( 150 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
