Drug Facts Active ingredients Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 1 % Purpose Oral pain reliever Oral pain reliever Uses for the temporary relief of pain due to • canker sores • minor injury of the mouth and gums • minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures Warnings Methemoglobinemia warning : use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heart rate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless told to do so by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • allergic reaction occurs Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not use if package has been opened • adults and children 2 years of age and older : using applicator tip , apply to the cavity and around the gum surrounding the teeth .
Use up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor .
Children 12 years of age should be supervised in the use of this product • children under 2 years of age : do not use Other information This preparation is intended for use in cases of toothache , only as a temporary expedient until a dentist can be consulted .
Do not use continuously .
Inactive ingredients alcohol , flavor , polyethylene glycol , red 40 , sodium saccharin , water , yellow 5 TAMPER - EVIDENT : Carton is sealed for your protection .
Retain carton for complete product information .
Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 CVS . com 1 - 800 - SHOP - CVS Made in Canada CVS Health ™ SEVERE PAIN RELIEF Toothache & Gum Relief Liquid ORAL PAIN RELIEVER DOUBLE MEDICATED • 20 % BENZOCAINE to relieve oral pain • MENTHOL to soothe 0 . 5 FL OZ ( 14 . 7 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
