DESCRIPTION Sulfasalazine tablets USP , 500 mg for oral administration .
Therapeutic Classification : Anti - inflammatory agent .
Chemical Designation : 5 - ( [ p - ( 2 - pyridylsulfamoyl ) phenyl ] azo ) salicylic acid .
Chemical Structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 18 H 14 N 4 O 5 S The molecular weight of sulfasalazine is 398 . 39 .
Inactive Ingredients : magnesium stearate , pregelatinized corn starch , sodium starch glycolate and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics The mode of action of sulfasalazine ( SSZ ) or its metabolites , 5 - aminosalicylic acid ( 5 - ASA ) and sulfapyridine ( SP ) , may be related to the anti - inflammatory and / or immunomodulatory properties that have been observed in animal and in vitro models , to its affinity for connective tissue , and / or to the relatively high concentration it reaches in serous fluids , the liver and intestinal walls , as demonstrated in autoradiographic studies in animals .
In ulcerative colitis , clinical studies utilizing rectal administration of SSZ , SP , and 5 - ASA have indicated that the major therapeutic action may reside in the 5 - ASA moiety .
Pharmacokinetics In vivo studies have indicated that the absolute bioavailability of orally administered SSZ is less than 15 % for parent drug .
In the intestine , SSZ is metabolized by intestinal bacteria to SP and 5 - ASA .
Of the two species , SP is relatively well absorbed from the intestine and highly metabolized , while 5 - ASA is much less well absorbed .
Absorption : Following oral administration of 1 g of SSZ to 9 healthy males , less than 15 % of a dose of SSZ is absorbed as parent drug .
Detectable serum concentrations of SSZ have been found in healthy subjects within 90 minutes after the ingestion .
Maximum concentrations of SSZ occur between 3 and 12 hours post - ingestion , with the mean peak concentration ( 6 mcg / mL ) occurring at 6 hours .
In comparison , peak plasma levels of both SP and 5 - ASA occur approximately 10 hours after dosing .
This longer time to peak is indicative of gastrointestinal transit to the lower intestine where bacteria mediated metabolism occurs .
SP apparently is well absorbed from the colon with an estimated bioavailability of 60 % .
In this same study , 5 - ASA is much less well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with an estimated bioavailability of from 10 % to 30 % .
Distribution : Following intravenous injection , the calculated volume of distribution ( Vdss ) for SSZ was 7 . 5 ± 1 . 6 L . SSZ is highly bound to albumin ( > 99 . 3 % ) while SP is only about 70 % bound to albumin .
Acetylsulfapyridine ( AcSP ) , the principal metabolite of SP , is approximately 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism : As mentioned above , SSZ is metabolized by intestinal bacteria to SP and 5 - ASA .
Approximately 15 % of a dose of SSZ is absorbed as parent and is metabolized to some extent in the liver to the same two species .
The observed plasma half - life for intravenous sulfasalazine is 7 . 6 ± 3 . 4 hours .
The primary route of metabolism of SP is via acetylation to form AcSP .
The rate of metabolism of SP to AcSP is dependent upon acetylator phenotype .
In fast acetylators , the mean plasma half - life of SP is 10 . 4 hours while in slow acetylators , it is 14 . 8 hours .
SP can also be metabolized to 5 - hydroxy - sulfapyridine ( SPOH ) and N - acetyl - 5 - hydroxy - sulfapyridine .
5 - ASA is primarily metabolized in both the liver and intestine to N - acetyl - 5 - aminosalicylic acid via a non - acetylation phenotype dependent route .
Due to low plasma levels produced by 5 - ASA after oral administration , reliable estimates of plasma half - life are not possible .
Excretion : Absorbed SP and 5 - ASA and their metabolites are primarily eliminated in the urine either as free metabolites or as glucuronide conjugates .
The majority of 5 - ASA stays within the colonic lumen and is excreted as 5 - ASA and acetyl - 5 - ASA with the feces .
The calculated clearance of SSZ following intravenous administration was 1 L / hr .
Renal clearance was estimated to account for 37 % of total clearance .
Special Populations Elderly : Elderly patients with rheumatoid arthritis showed a prolonged plasma half - life for SSZ , SP , and their metabolites .
The clinical impact of this is unknown .
Pediatric : Small studies have been reported in the literature in children down to the age of 4 years with ulcerative colitis and inflammatory bowel disease .
In these populations , relative to adults , the pharmacokinetics of SSZ and SP correlated poorly with either age or dose .
Acetylator Status : The metabolism of SP to AcSP is mediated by polymorphic enzymes such that two distinct populations of slow and fast metabolizers exist .
Approximately 60 % of the Caucasian population can be classified as belonging to the slow acetylator phenotype .
These subjects will display a prolonged plasma half - life for SP ( 14 . 8 hours vs 10 . 4 hours ) and an accumulation of higher plasma levels of SP than fast acetylators .
The clinical implication of this is unclear ; however , in a small pharmacokinetic trial where acetylator status was determined , subjects who were slow acetylators of SP showed a higher incidence of adverse events .
Gender : Gender appears not to have an effect on either the rate or the pattern of metabolites of SSZ , SP , or 5 - ASA .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sulfasalazine tablets are indicated : a ) in the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis , and as adjunctive therapy in severe ulcerative colitis ; and b ) for the prolongation of the remission period between acute attacks of ulcerative colitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sulfasalazine tablets are contraindicated in : Patients with intestinal or urinary obstruction , Patients with porphyria as sulfonamides have been reported to precipitate an acute attack , Patients hypersensitive to sulfasalazine , its metabolites , sulfonamides , or salicylates .
WARNINGS Hepatic , Renal , and Hematologic Toxicity or Other Conditions Only after critical appraisal should sulfasalazine tablets be given to patients with hepatic or renal damage or blood dyscrasias .
Deaths associated with the administration of sulfasalazine have been reported from hypersensitivity reactions , agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia , other blood dyscrasias , renal and liver damage , irreversible neuromuscular and central nervous system changes , and fibrosing alveolitis .
The presence of clinical signs such as sore throat , fever , pallor , purpura , or jaundice may be indications of serious blood disorders or hepatotoxicity .
Complete blood counts , as well as urinalysis with careful microscopic examination , should be done frequently in patients receiving sulfasalazine ( see PRECAUTIONS , Laboratory Tests ) .
Discontinue treatment with sulfasalazine while awaiting the results of blood tests .
Oligospermia and Infertility Oligospermia and infertility have been observed in men treated with sulfasalazine ; however , withdrawal of the drug appears to reverse these effects .
Serious Infections Serious infections , including fatal sepsis and pneumonia , have been reported .
Some infections were associated with agranulocytosis , neutropenia , or myelosuppression .
Discontinue sulfasalazine tablets if a patient develops a serious infection .
Closely monitor patients for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with sulfasalazine tablets .
For a patient who develops a new infection during treatment with sulfasalazine tablets , perform a prompt and complete diagnostic workup for infection and myelosuppression .
Caution should be exercised when considering the use of sulfasalazine in patients with a history of recurring or chronic infections or with underlying conditions or concomitant drugs which may predispose patients to infections .
Hypersensitivity Reactions Severe hypersensitivity reactions may include internal organ involvement , such as hepatitis , nephritis , myocarditis , mononucleosis - like syndrome ( i . e . , pseudomononucleosis ) , hematological abnormalities ( including hematophagic histiocytosis ) , and / or pneumonitis including eosinophilic infiltration .
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Drug Reactions with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms ( DRESS ) Severe , life - threatening , systemic hypersensitivity reactions such as drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) have been reported in patients taking sulfasalazine .
Early manifestations of hypersensitivity , such as fever or lymphadenopathy , may be present even though rash is not evident .
If such signs or symptoms are present , evaluate the patient immediately .
Discontinue sulfasalazine tablets if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established .
Other Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions Other severe cutaneous adverse reactions , including exfoliative dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome ( SJS ) and toxic epidermal necrolysis ( TEN ) , and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) have been reported in association with the use of sulfasalazine ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions can be serious and are sometimes fatal .
Patients are at highest risk for these events early in therapy , with most events occurring within the first month of treatment .
Discontinue sulfasalazine tablets at the first appearance of signs or symptoms of severe cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further evaluation .
PRECAUTIONS General : Sulfasalazine tablets should be given with caution to patients with severe allergy or bronchial asthma .
Adequate fluid intake must be maintained in order to prevent crystalluria and stone formation .
Patients with glucose - 6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency should be observed closely for signs of hemolytic anemia .
This reaction is frequently dose related .
If toxic or hypersensitivity reactions occur , the drug should be discontinued immediately .
Information for Patients : Patients should be informed of the possibility of adverse reactions and of the need for careful medical supervision .
The occurrence of sore throat , fever , pallor , purpura , or jaundice may indicate a serious blood disorder .
Should any of these occur , the patient should seek medical advice .
They should also be made aware that ulcerative colitis rarely remits completely , and that the risk of relapse can be reduced by continued administration of sulfasalazine at a maintenance dosage .
Patients should be instructed to take sulfasalazine in evenly divided doses preferably after meals .
Additionally , patients should be advised that sulfasalazine may produce an orange - yellow discoloration of the urine or skin .
Repackaged By / Distributed By : RemedyRepack Inc .
625 Kolter Drive , Indiana , PA 15701 ( 724 ) 465 - 8762 Laboratory Tests : Complete blood counts , including differential white cell count , and liver function tests , should be performed before starting sulfasalazine and every second week during the first three months of therapy .
During the second three months , the same tests should be done once monthly and thereafter once every three months , and as clinically indicated .
Urinalysis and an assessment of renal function should also be done periodically during treatment with sulfasalazine .
The determination of serum sulfapyridine levels may be useful since concentrations greater than 50 mcg / mL appear to be associated with an increased incidence of adverse reactions .
Drug Interactions : Reduced absorption of folic acid and digoxin have been reported when those agents were administered concomitantly with sulfasalazine .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Several reports of possible interference with measurements , by liquid chromatography , of urinary normetanephrine causing a false - positive test result have been observed in patients exposed to sulfasalazine or its metabolite , mesalamine / mesalazine .
Sulfasalazine or its metabolite , sulfapyridine , may interfere with ultraviolet absorbance , particularly at 340 nm , and may cause interference with some laboratory assays that use nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide [ NAD ( H ) ] or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate [ NADP ( H ) ] to measure ultraviolet absorbance around that wavelength .
Examples of such assays may include alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , creatine kinase - muscle / brain ( CK - MB ) , ammonia , thyroxine or glucose .
Erroneous laboratory results may be observed in patients receiving higher than recommended dosages of sulfasalazine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Two - year oral carcinogenicity studies were conducted in male and female F344 / N rats and B6C3F1 mice .
Sulfasalazine was tested at 84 ( 496 mg / m 2 ) , 168 ( 991 mg / m 2 ) , and 337 . 5 ( 1991 mg / m 2 ) mg / kg / day doses in rats .
A statistically significant increase in the incidence of urinary bladder transitional cell papillomas was observed in male rats .
In female rats , two ( 4 % ) of the 337 . 5 mg / kg rats had transitional cell papilloma of the kidney .
The increased incidence of neoplasms in the urinary bladder and kidney of rats was also associated with an increase in the renal calculi formation and hyperplasia of transitional cell epithelium .
For the mouse study , sulfasalazine was tested at 675 ( 2025 mg / m 2 ) , 1350 ( 4050 mg / m 2 ) , and 2700 ( 8100 mg / m 2 ) mg / kg / day .
The incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma in male and female mice was significantly greater than the control at all doses tested .
Sulfasalazine did not show mutagenicity in the bacterial reverse mutation assay ( Ames test ) and in L51784 mouse lymphoma cell assay at the HGPRT gene .
However , sulfasalazine showed equivocal mutagenic response in the micronucleus assay of mouse and rat bone marrow and mouse peripheral RBC and in the sister chromatid exchange , chromosomal aberration , and micronucleus assays in lymphocytes obtained from humans .
Impairment of male fertility was observed in reproductive studies performed in rats at a dose of 800 mg / kg / day ( 4800 mg / m 2 ) .
Oligospermia and infertility have been described in men treated with sulfasalazine .
Withdrawal of the drug appears to reverse these effects .
Pregnancy : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of sulfasalazine in pregnant women .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 6 times the human maintenance dose of 2 g / day based on body surface area and have revealed no evidence of impaired female fertility or harm to the fetus due to sulfasalazine .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
There have been case reports of neural tube defects ( NTDs ) in infants born to mothers who were exposed to sulfasalazine during pregnancy , but the role of sulfasalazine in these defects has not been established .
However , oral sulfasalazine inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid which may interfere with folic acid supplementation ( see Drug Interactions ) and diminish the effect of periconceptional folic acid supplementation that has been shown to decrease the risk of NTDs .
A national survey evaluated the outcome of pregnancies associated with inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) .
In a group of 186 women treated with sulfasalazine alone or sulfasalazine and concomitant steroid therapy , the incidence of fetal morbidity and mortality was comparable to that for 245 untreated IBD pregnancies as well as to pregnancies in the general population .
1 A study of 1 , 455 pregnancies associated with exposure to sulfonamides indicated that this group of drugs , including sulfasalazine , did not appear to be associated with fetal malformation .
2 A review of the medical literature covering 1 , 155 pregnancies in women with ulcerative colitis suggested that the outcome was similar to that expected in the general population .
3 No clinical studies have been performed to evaluate the effect of sulfasalazine on the growth development and functional maturation of children whose mothers received the drug during pregnancy .
Clinical Considerations : Sulfasalazine and its metabolite , sulfapyridine pass through the placenta .
Sulfasalazine and its metabolite are also present in human milk .
In the newborn , sulfonamides compete with bilirubin for binding sites on the plasma proteins and may cause kernicterus .
Although sulfapyridine has been shown to have a poor bilirubin - displacing capacity , monitor the newborn for the potential for kernicterus .
A case of agranulocytosis has been reported in an infant whose mother was taking both sulfasalazine and prednisone throughout pregnancy .
Nursing Mothers : Sulfonamides , including sulfasalazine , are present in human milk ( see Pregnancy , Clinical Considerations ) .
Insignificant amounts of sulfasalazine have been found in milk , whereas levels of the active metabolite sulfapyridine in milk are about 30 to 60 percent of those in the maternal serum .
Caution should be exercised when sulfasalazine is administered to a nursing mother .
There are reports with limited data of bloody stools or diarrhea in human milk fed infants of mothers taking sulfasalazine .
In cases where the outcome was reported , bloody stools or diarrhea resolved in the infant after discontinuation of sulfasalazine in the mother or discontinuation of breastfeeding .
Due to limited data , a causal relationship between sulfasalazine exposure and bloody stools or diarrhea cannot be confirmed or denied .
Monitor human milk fed infants of mothers taking sulfasalazine for signs and symptoms of diarrhea and / or bloody stools .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions associated with sulfasalazine are anorexia , headache , nausea , vomiting , gastric distress , and apparently reversible oligospermia .
These occur in about one - third of the patients .
Less frequent adverse reactions are skin rash , pruritus , urticaria , fever , Heinz body anemia , hemolytic anemia , and cyanosis , which may occur at a frequency of one in every thirty patients or less .
Experience suggests that with a daily dosage of 4 g or more , or total serum sulfapyridine levels above 50 mcg / mL , the incidence of adverse reactions tends to increase .
Although the listing which follows includes a few adverse reactions which have not been reported with this specific drug , the pharmacological similarities among the sulfonamides require that each of these reactions be considered when sulfasalazine tablets are administered .
Less common or rare adverse reactions include : Blood dyscrasias : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , megaloblastic ( macrocytic ) anemia , purpura , thrombocytopenia , hypoprothrombinemia , methemoglobinemia , congenital neutropenia , and myelodysplastic syndrome .
Hypersensitivity reactions : erythema multiforme , epidermal necrolysis ( SJS / TEN ) with corneal damage , exfoliative dermatitis , DRESS , anaphylaxis , serum sickness syndrome , interstitial lung disease , pneumonitis with or without eosinophilia , vasculitis , fibrosing alveolitis , pleurisy / pleuritis , pericarditis with or without tamponade , allergic myocarditis , polyarteritis nodosa , lupus erythematosus - like syndrome , hepatitis and hepatic necrosis with or without immune complexes , fulminant hepatitis , sometimes leading to liver transplantation , parapsoriasis varioliformis acuta ( Mucha - Haberman syndrome ) , rhabdomyolysis , photosensitization , arthralgia , periorbital edema , conjunctival and scleral injection , and alopecia .
Gastrointestinal reactions : hepatitis , hepatic failure , pancreatitis , bloody diarrhea , impaired folic acid absorption , impaired digoxin absorption , stomatitis , diarrhea , abdominal pains , and neutropenic enterocolitis .
Central nervous system reactions : transverse myelitis , convulsions , meningitis , transient lesions of the posterior spinal column , cauda equina syndrome , Guillian - Barre syndrome , peripheral neuropathy , mental depression , vertigo , hearing loss , insomnia , ataxia , hallucinations , tinnitus , and drowsiness .
Renal reactions : toxic nephrosis with oliguria and anuria , nephritis , nephrotic syndrome , urinary tract infections , hematuria , crystalluria , proteinuria , and hemolytic - uremic syndrome .
Other reactions : urine discoloration and skin discoloration .
The sulfonamides bear certain chemical similarities to some goitrogens , diuretics ( acetazolamide and the thiazides ) , and oral hypoglycemic agents .
Goiter production , diuresis and hypoglycemia have occurred rarely in patients receiving sulfonamides .
Cross - sensitivity may exist with these agents .
Rats appear to be especially susceptible to the goitrogenic effects of sulfonamides and long - term administration has produced thyroid malignancies in this species .
Postmarketing Reports The following events have been identified during post - approval use of products which contain ( or are metabolized to ) mesalamine in clinical practice .
Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size , estimates of frequency cannot be made .
These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness , frequency of reporting , or potential causal connection to mesalamine : Blood dyscrasias : pseudomononucleosis Cardiac disorders : myocarditis Hepatobiliary disorders : reports of hepatotoxicity , including elevated liver function tests ( SGOT / AST , SGPT / ALT , GGT , LDH , alkaline phosphatase , bilirubin ) , jaundice , cholestatic jaundice , cirrhosis , hepatitis cholestatic , cholestasis and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure .
Some of these cases were fatal .
One case of Kawasaki - like syndrome , which included hepatic function changes , was also reported .
Immune system disorders : anaphylaxis Metabolism and nutrition system disorders : folate deficiency Renal and urinary disorders : nephrolithiasis Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : oropharyngeal pain Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders : angioedema , purpura , SJS / TEN , DRESS , and AGEP Vascular disorders : pallor To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE EVENTS , contact Actavis at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or http : / / www . fda . gov / medwatch for voluntary reporting of adverse reactions .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE None reported .
OVERDOSAGE There is evidence that the incidence and severity of toxicity following overdosage are directly related to the total serum sulfapyridine concentration .
Symptoms of overdosage may include nausea , vomiting , gastric distress , and abdominal pains .
In more advanced cases , central nervous system symptoms such as drowsiness , convulsions , etc . , may be observed .
Serum sulfapyridine concentrations may be used to monitor the progress of recovery from overdosage .
There are no documented reports of deaths due to ingestion of large single doses of sulfasalazine .
Doses of sulfasalazine tablets of 16 g per day have been given to patients without mortality .
A single oral dose of 12 g / kg was not lethal to mice .
Instructions for Overdosage : Gastric lavage or emesis plus catharsis as indicated .
Alkalinize urine .
If kidney function is normal , force fluids .
If anuria is present , restrict fluids and salt , and treat appropriately .
Catheterization of the ureters may be indicated for complete renal blockage by crystals .
The low molecular weight of sulfasalazine and its metabolites may facilitate their removal by dialysis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of sulfasalazine tablets should be adjusted to each individual ’ s response and tolerance .
Initial Therapy : Adults : 3 to 4 g daily in evenly divided doses with dosage intervals not exceeding eight hours .
In some cases , it is advisable to initiate therapy with a smaller dosage , e . g . , 1 to 2 g daily , to reduce possible gastrointestinal intolerance .
If daily doses exceeding 4 g are required to achieve desired effects , the increased risk of toxicity should be kept in mind .
Children , six years of age and older : 40 to 60 mg / kg body weight in each 24 - hour period , divided into 3 to 6 doses .
Maintenance Therapy : Adults : 2 g daily .
Children , six years of age and older : 30 mg / kg body weight in each 24 - hour period , divided into 4 doses .
The response of acute ulcerative colitis to sulfasalazine tablets can be evaluated by clinical criteria , including the presence of fever , weight changes , and degree and frequency of diarrhea and bleeding , as well as by sigmoidoscopy and the evaluation of biopsy samples .
It is often necessary to continue medication even when clinical symptoms , including diarrhea , have been controlled .
When endoscopic examination confirms satisfactory improvement , the dosage of sulfasalazine should be reduced to a maintenance level .
If diarrhea recurs , the dosage should be increased to previously effective levels .
If symptoms of gastric intolerance ( anorexia , nausea , vomiting , etc . ) occur after the first few doses of sulfasalazine , they are probably due to increased serum levels of total sulfapyridine and may be alleviated by halving the daily dose of sulfasalazine and subsequently increasing it gradually over several days .
If gastric intolerance continues , the drug should be stopped for 5 to 7 days , then reintroduced at a lower daily dose .
Some patients may be sensitive to treatment with sulfasalazine .
Various desensitization - like regimens have been reported to be effective in 34 of 53 patients , 4 7 of 8 patients , 5 and 19 of 20 patients .
6 These regimens suggest starting with a total daily dose of 50 to 250 mg sulfasalazine initially , and doubling it every 4 to 7 days until the desired therapeutic level is achieved .
If the symptoms of sensitivity recur , sulfasalazine should be discontinued .
Desensitization should not be attempted in patients who have a history of agranulocytosis , or who have experienced an anaphylactoid reaction while previously receiving sulfasalazine .
Sulfasalazine tablets USP , 500 mg are round , mustard - colored , biconvex , debossed “ WATSON ” and “ 796 ” on one side and partial bisect on the other side .
They are available in the following package sizes : NDC : 70518 - 0185 - 00 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 REFERENCES • Mogadam M , et al .
Pregnancy in inflammatory bowel disease : effect of sulfasalazine and corticosteroids on fetal outcome .
Gastroenterology 1981 ; 80 : 72 - 6 .
• Kaufman DW , editor .
Birth defects and drugs during pregnancy .
Littleton , MA : Publishing Sciences Group , Inc , 1977 ; 296 - 313 .
• Jarnerot G . Fertility , sterility and pregnancy in chronic inflammatory bowel disease .
Scand J Gastroenterol 1982 ; 17 : 1 - 4 .
• Korelitz B , et al .
Desensitization to sulfasalazine in allergic patients with IBD : an important therapeutic modality .
Gastroenterology 1982 ; 82 : 1104 .
• Holdworth CG .
Sulphasalazine desensitization .
Br Med J 1981 ; 282 : 110 .
• Taffet SL , Das KM .
Desensitization of patients with inflammatory bowel disease to sulfasalazine .
Am J Med 1982 ; 73 : 520 - 4 .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Sulfasalazine GENERIC : Sulfasalazine DOSAGE : TABLET ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 0185 - 0 COLOR : yellow SHAPE : ROUND SCORE : Two even pieces SIZE : 13 mm IMPRINT : WATSON ; 796 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • SULFASALAZINE 500 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • STARCH , CORN • SODIUM STARCH GLYCOLATE TYPE A POTATO • STEARIC ACID [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
