Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Right away Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • avoid long term storage above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , fragrance , Cocos nucifera ( coconut ) oil , mineral oil Kroger Sport Clear Spray SPF 50 provides quick and easy coverage with broad spectrum protection .
Its clear , specially formulated spray goes on at any angle .
Water resistant formula provides protection in and out of the water for up to 80 minutes .
May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Sport High Performance Sunscreen Continuous Spray UVA / UVB Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
Distributed by The Kroger Co .
Cincinnati , Ohio 45202 Quality guarantee 800 - 632 - 6900 www . kroger . com 787 . 000 / 787 AA principal display panel Kroger Compare to Coppertone Sport * Sport Sunscreen Continuous Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 UVA / UVB sunscreen continuous spray water resistant ( 80 minutes ) sweat resistant hypoallergenic formulated for active lifestyles 50 NET WT 10 OZ ( 283 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
