DESCRIPTION Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP are oral antihyperglycemic drugs used in the management of type 2 diabetes .
Metformin hydrochloride , USP ( N , N - dimethyl - monohydrochloride , Imidodicarbonimidic diamide ) is not chemically or pharmacologically related to any other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
The structural formula is as shown : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Metformin hydrochloride , USP is a white or almost white , crystalline powder with a molecular formula of C4H11N5 • HCl and a molecular weight of 165 . 62 .
Metformin hydrochloride is freely soluble in water , slightly soluble in alcohol , practically insoluble in acetone and in Methylene chloride .
The pKa of metformin is 12 . 4 .
The pH of a 1 % aqueous solution of metformin hydrochloride is 6 . 35 .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP contain 500 mg or 750 mg of metformin hydrochloride as the active ingredient .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP 500 mg and 750 mg tablets contain the inactive ingredients hypromellose , magnesium stearate , and polyvinyl pyrrolidone .
Dissolution Method : Test 10 System Components and Performance - Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP comprises a dual hydrophilic polymer matrix system .
Metformin hydrochloride , USP is combined with a drug release controlling polymer to form an " inner " phase , which is then incorporated as discrete particles into an " external " phase of a second polymer .
After administration , fluid from the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract enters the tablet , causing the polymers to hydrate and swell .
Drug is released slowly from the dosage form by a process of diffusion through the gel matrix that is essentially independent of pH . The hydrated polymer system is not rigid and is expected to be broken up by normal peristalsis in the GI tract .
The biologically inert components of the tablet may occasionally remain intact during GI transit and will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Metformin is an antihyperglycemic agent which improves glucose tolerance in patients with type 2 diabetes , lowering both basal and postprandial plasma glucose .
Its pharmacologic mechanisms of action are different from other classes of oral antihyperglycemic agents .
Metformin decreases hepatic glucose production , decreases intestinal absorption of glucose , and improves insulin sensitivity by increasing peripheral glucose uptake and utilization .
Unlike sulfonylureas , metformin does not produce hypoglycemia in either patients with type 2 diabetes or normal subjects ( except in special circumstances , see PRECAUTIONS ) and does not cause hyperinsulinemia .
With metformin therapy , insulin secretion remains unchanged while fasting insulin levels and day - long plasma insulin response may actually decrease .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption and Bioavailability Following a single oral dose of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , C max is achieved with a median value of 7 hours and a range of 4 to 8 hours . Peak plasma levels are approximately 20 % lower compared to the same dose of metformin hydrochloride tablets , however , the extent of absorption ( as measured by AUC ) is similar to metformin hydrochloride tablets .
At steady state , the AUC and C max are less than dose proportional for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets within the range of 500 to 2000 mg administered once daily .
Peak plasma levels are approximately 0 . 6 , 1 . 1 , 1 . 4 , and 1 . 8 mcg / mL for 500 , 1000 , 1500 , and 2000 mg once - daily doses , respectively .
The extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at a 2000 mg once - daily dose is similar to the same total daily dose administered as metformin hydrochloride tablets 1000 mg twice daily .
After repeated administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , metformin did not accumulate in plasma .
Within - subject variability in C max and AUC of metformin from metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is comparable to that with metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Although the extent of metformin absorption ( as measured by AUC ) from the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets increased by approximately 50 % when given with food , there was no effect of food on C max and T max of metformin .
Both high and low fat meals had the same effect on the pharmacokinetics of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution ( V / F ) of metformin following single oral doses of metformin hydrochloride 850 mg averaged 654 ± 358 L . Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins , in contrast to sulfonylureas , which are more than 90 % protein bound .
Metformin partitions into erythrocytes , most likely as a function of time .
At usual clinical doses and dosing schedules of metformin hydrochloride tablets , steady state plasma concentrations of metformin are reached within 24 to 48 hours and are generally < 1 mcg / mL .
During controlled clinical trials of metformin hydrochloride tablets , maximum metformin plasma levels did not exceed 5 mcg / mL , even at maximum doses .
Metabolism and Elimination Intravenous single - dose studies in normal subjects demonstrate that metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine and does not undergo hepatic metabolism ( no metabolites have been identified in humans ) nor biliary excretion .
Renal clearance ( see Table 1 ) is approximately 3 . 5 times greater than creatinine clearance , which indicates that tubular secretion is the major route of metformin elimination .
Following oral administration , approximately 90 % of the absorbed drug is eliminated via the renal route within the first 24 hours , with a plasma elimination half - life of approximately 6 . 2 hours .
In blood , the elimination half - life is approximately 17 . 6 hours , suggesting that the erythrocyte mass may be a compartment of distribution .
Specific Population Patients with Type 2 Diabetes In the presence of normal renal function , there are no differences between single - or multiple - dose pharmacokinetics of metformin between patients with type 2 diabetes and normal subjects ( see Table 1 ) nor is there any accumulation of metformin in either group at usual clinical doses .
The pharmacokinetics of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes is comparable to those in healthy normal adults .
Renal Impairment In patients with decreased renal function ( based on measured creatinine clearance ) , the plasma and blood half - life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in creatinine clearance ( see Table 1 : also see also see CONTRAINDICATIONS , WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Impairment No parmacokinetic studies of metformin have been conducted in patients with hepatic insufficiency ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Geriatrics Limited data from controlled pharmacokinetic studies of metformin hydrochloride tablets in healthy elderly subjects suggest that total plasma clearance of metformin is decreased , the half - life is prolonged , and Cmax is increased , compared to healthy young subjects .
From these data , it appears that the change in metformin pharmacokinetics with aging is primarily accounted for by a change in renal function ( see Table 1 ; also see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets treatment should not be initiated in patients ≥ 80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Table 1 : Select Mean ( ± S . D . ) Metformin Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following Single or Multiple Oral Doses of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Subject Groups : Metformin Hydrochloride Tablet dose a ( number of subjects ) Cmax b ( mcg / mL ) Tmax c ( hrs ) Renal Clearance ( mL / min ) Healthy , nondiabetic adults : 500 mg single dose ( 24 ) 1 . 03 ( ± 0 . 33 ) 2 . 75 ( ± 0 . 81 ) 600 ( ± 132 ) 850 mg single dose ( 74 ) d 1 . 60 ( ± 0 . 38 ) 2 . 64 ( ± 0 . 82 ) 552 ( ± 139 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 doses e ( 9 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 0 . 42 ) 1 . 79 ( ± 0 . 94 ) 642 ( ± 173 ) Adults with type 2 diabetes : 850 mg single dose ( 23 ) 1 . 48 ( ± 0 . 5 ) 3 . 32 ( ± 1 . 08 ) 491 ( ± 138 ) 850 mg three times daily for 19 dosese ( 9 ) 1 . 90 ( ± 0 . 62 ) 2 . 01 ( ± 1 . 22 ) 550 ( ± 160 ) Elderly f , healthy nondiabetic adults : 850 mg single dose ( 12 ) 2 . 45 ( ± 0 . 70 ) 2 . 71 ( ± 1 . 05 ) 412 ( ± 98 ) Renal - impaired adults : 850 mg single dose Mild ( CL crg 61 - 90 mL / min ) ( 5 ) 1 . 86 ( ± 0 . 52 ) 3 . 20 ( ± 0 . 45 ) 384 ( ± 122 ) Moderate ( CL cr 31 - 60 mL / min ) ( 4 ) 4 . 12 ( ± 1 . 83 ) 3 . 75 ( ± 0 . 50 ) 108 ( ± 57 ) Severe ( CL cr 10 - 30 mL / min ) ( 6 ) 3 . 93 ( ± 0 . 92 ) 4 . 01 ( ± 1 . 10 ) 130 ( ± 90 ) a All doses given fasting except the first 18 doses of the multiple dose studies b Peak plasma concentration c Time to peak plasma concentration d Combined results ( average means ) of five studies : mean age 32 years ( range 23 - 59 years ) e Kinetic study done following dose 19 , given fasting f Elderly subjects , mean age 71 years ( range 65 - 81 years ) g CLcr = creatinine clearance normalized to body surface area of 1 . 73 m 2 Gender Metformin pharmacokinetic parameters did not differ significantly between normal subjects and patients with type 2 diabetes when analyzed according to gender ( males = 19 , females = 16 ) .
Race No studies of metformin pharmacokinetic parameters according to race have been performed .
Clinical Studies Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets A 24 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise ( HbA1c 7 to 10 % , FPG 126 to 270 mg / dL ) .
Patients entering the study had a mean baseline HbA1c of 8 % and a mean baseline FPG of 176 mg / dL .
After 12 weeks treatment , mean HbA 1 c had increased from baseline by 0 . 1 % and mean FPG decreased from baseline by 2 mg / dL in the placebo group , compared with a decrease in mean HbA 1 c of 0 . 6 % and a decrease in mean FPG of 23 mg / dL in patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg once daily .
Subsequently , the treatment dose was increased to 1500 mg once daily if HbA 1 c was ≥ 7 % but < 8 % ( patients with HbA 1 c ≥ 8 % were discontinued from the study ) .
At the final visit ( 24 - week ) , mean HbA 1 c had increased 0 . 2 % from baseline in placebo patients and decreased 0 . 6 % with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
A 16 - week , double - blind , placebo - controlled , dose - response study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal or twice daily with meals , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had failed to achieve glycemic control with diet and exercise ( HbA 1 c 7 to 11 % , FPG 126 to 280 mg / dL ) .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Sum mary of Mean Ch a nges f rom Baseline * in Hb A1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , and Body Weight at Final Visit ( 16 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended – Release Tablets Placebo 500 mg once Daily 1000 mg once Daily 1500 mg once Daily 2000 mg once Daily 1000 mg Twice Daily Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT p - value a ( n = 115 ) 8 . 2 - 0 . 4 < 0 . 001 ( n = 115 ) 8 . 4 - 0 . 6 < 0 . 001 ( n = 111 ) 8 . 3 - 0 . 9 < 0 . 001 ( n = 125 ) 8 . 4 - 0 . 8 < 0 . 001 ( n = 112 ) 8 . 4 - 1 . 1 < 0 . 001 ( n = 111 ) 8 . 4 0 . 1 - FPG ( mg / dL ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT p - value a ( n = 126 ) 182 . 7 - 15 . 2 < 0 . 001 ( n = 118 ) 183 . 7 - 19 . 3 < 0 . 001 ( n = 120 ) 178 . 9 - 28 . 5 < 0 . 001 ( n = 132 ) 181 - 29 . 9 < 0 . 001 ( n = 122 ) 181 . 6 - 33 . 6 < 0 . 001 ( n = 113 ) 179 . 6 7 . 6 - Body Weight ( lbs ) Baseline Change at FINAL VISIT p - value a ( n = 125 ) 192 . 9 - 1 . 3 NS ** ( n = 119 ) 191 . 8 - 1 . 3 NS ** ( n = 117 ) 188 . 3 - 0 . 7 NS ** ( n = 131 ) 195 . 4 - 1 . 5 NS ** ( n = 119 ) 192 . 5 - 2 . 2 NS ** ( n = 113 ) 194 . 3 - 1 . 8 - * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline a All comparisons versus Placebo ** Not statistically significant Compared with placebo , improvement in glycemic control was seen at all dose levels of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and treatment was not associated with any significant change in weight ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) for dosing recommendations for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
A 24 - week , double - blind , randomized study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , taken once daily with the evening meal , and metformin hydrochloride tablets , taken twice daily ( with breakfast and evening meal ) , was conducted in patients with type 2 diabetes who had been treated with metformin hydrochloride 500 mg twice daily for at least 8 weeks prior to study entry .
The metformin hydrochloride dose had not necessarily been titrated to achieve a specific level of glycemic control prior to study entry .
Patients qualified for the study if HbA 1 c was ≤ 8 . 5 % and FPG was ≤ 200 mg / dL .
Changes in glycemic control and body weight are shown in Table 3 .
Table3 : Summary of Mean Changes from Baseline * in HbA1c , Fasting Plasma Glucose , and Body Weight at Week 12 and at Final Visit ( 24 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily Hemoglobin A1c ( % ) ( n = 67 ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 7 . 06 6 . 99 7 . 02 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 14 0 . 23 0 . 04 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 03 , 0 . 31 ) ( 0 . 10 , 0 . 36 ) ( - 0 . 08 , 0 . 15 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 14 a 0 . 27 0 . 13 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 04 , 0 . 31 ) ( 0 . 11 , 0 . 43 ) ( - 0 . 02 , 0 . 28 ) FPG ( mg / dL ) ( n = 69 ) ( n = 72 ) ( n = 70 ) Baseline 127 . 2 131 131 . 4 Change at 12 Weeks 12 . 9 9 . 5 3 . 7 ( 95 % CI ) ( 6 . 5 , 19 . 4 ) ( 4 . 4 , 14 . 6 ) ( - 0 . 4 , 7 . 8 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 14 11 . 5 7 . 6 ( 95 % CI ) ( 7 , 21 ) ( 4 . 4 , 18 . 6 ) ( 1 . 0 , 14 . 2 ) Body Weight ( lbs ) ( n = 71 ) ( n = 74 ) ( n = 71 ) Baseline 210 . 3 202 . 8 192 . 7 Change at 12 Weeks 0 . 4 0 . 9 0 . 7 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 4 , 1 . 5 ) ( 0 . 0 , 2 ) ( - 0 . 4 , 1 . 8 ) Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 9 1 . 1 0 . 9 ( 95 % CI ) ( - 0 . 4 , 2 . 2 ) ( - 0 . 2 , 2 . 4 ) ( - 0 . 4 , 2 ) * All patients on metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg twice daily at Baseline a n = 68 After 12 weeks of treatment , there was an increase in mean HbA 1 c in all groups ; in the metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets 1000 mg group , the increase from baseline of 0 . 23 % was statistically significant ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described placebo - controlled dose - response study of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are shown in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Summary of Mean Percent Changes from Baseline * in Major Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 16 - week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Extended – Release Tablets Placebo 500 mg once Daily 1000 mg once Daily 1500 mg once Daily 2000 mg once Daily 1000 mg Twice Daily Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT ( n = 120 ) 210 . 3 1 % ( n = 113 ) 218 . 1 1 . 7 % ( n = 110 ) 214 . 6 0 . 7 % ( n = 126 ) 204 . 4 - 1 . 6 % ( n = 117 ) 208 . 2 - 2 . 6 % ( n = 110 ) 208 . 6 - 2 . 6 % Total Triglyceides ( mg / dL ) Baseline Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT ( n = 120 ) 220 . 2 14 . 5 % ( n = 113 ) 211 . 9 9 . 4 % ( n = 110 ) 198 15 . 1 % ( n = 126 ) 194 . 2 14 . 9 % ( n = 117 ) 179 9 . 4 % ( n = 110 ) 211 . 7 10 . 9 % LDLCholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT ( n = 119 ) 131 - 1 . 4 % ( n = 113 ) 134 . 9 - 1 . 6 % ( n = 109 ) 135 . 8 - 3 . 5 % ( n = 126 ) 125 . 8 - 3 . 3 % ( n = 117 ) 131 . 4 - 5 . 5 % ( n = 107 ) 131 . 9 - 3 . 2 % HDLCholesterol ( mg / dL ) Baseline Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT ( n = 120 ) 40 . 8 6 . 2 % ( n = 108 ) 41 . 6 8 . 6 % ( n = 108 ) 40 . 6 5 . 5 % ( n = 125 ) 40 . 2 6 . 1 % ( n = 117 ) 42 . 4 7 . 1 % ( n = 108 ) 39 . 4 5 . 8 % * All patients on diet therapy at Baseline Changes in lipid parameters in the previously described study of metformin hydrochloride tablets and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Summary of Mean Percent Changes from Baseline * in Major Lipid Variables at Final Visit ( 24 week study ) Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets 500 mg Twice Daily Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets 1000 mg Once Daily 1500 mg Once Daily Total Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 199 201 . 9 201 . 6 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 0 . 1 % 1 . 3 % 0 . 1 % Total Triglycerides ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 178 169 . 2 206 . 8 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT 6 . 3 % 25 . 3 % 33 . 4 % LDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 66 ) Baseline 122 . 1 126 . 2 115 . 7 Mean % Change at FINAL VISIT - 1 . 3 % - 3 . 3 % - 3 . 7 % HDL - Cholesterol ( mg / dL ) ( n = 68 ) ( n = 70 ) ( n = 65 ) Baseline 41 . 9 41 . 7 44 . 6 Mean % Change at FINALVISIT 4 . 8 % 1 % - 2 . 1 % * All patients on metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg twice daily at baseline INDICATIONS & USAGE Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with : 1 .
Severe Renal Impairment ( eGFR below 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ) ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
2 .
Known hypersensitivity to metformin hydrochloride , USP .
3 .
Acute or chronic metabolic acidosis , including diabetic ketoacidosis , with or without coma .
Diabetic ketoacidosis should be treated with insulin .
WARNINGS LACTIC ACIDOSIS : Postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis have resulted in death , hypothermia , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias .
The onset of metformin associated lactic acidosis is often subtle , accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , respiratory distress , somnolence , and abdominal pain .
Metformin associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate levels ( > 5 mmol / Liter ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidenceof ketonuria or ketonemia ) , an increased lactate / pyruvate ratio ; and metformin plasma levels generally > 5 mcg / mL ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Risk factors for metformin associated lactic acidosis include renal impairment , concamitent use of certain drugs ( e . g carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate ) , age 65 years old or greater , having a radiological study with contrast , surgery and other procedures , hypoxic states ( e . g . , acute congestive heart failure ) , excessive alcohol intake , and hepatic impairment .
Steps to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis in these high risk groups are provided ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , AND PRECAUTIONS ) .
If metformin associated lactic acidosis is suspected , immediately discontinue metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets and institute general supportive measures in a hospital setting .
Prompt hemodialysis is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
PRECAUTIONS General Precautions • Lactic acidosis – There have been post marketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis , including fatal cases .
These cases had a subtle onset and were accompanied by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise , myalgias , abdominal pain , respiratory distress , or increased somnolence ; however , hypotension and resistant bradyarrhythmias have occurred with severe acidosis .
Metformin - associated lactic acidosis was characterized by elevated blood lactate concentrations ( > 5 mmol / L ) , anion gap acidosis ( without evidence of ketonuria or ketonemia ) , and an increased lactate : pyruvate ratio ; metformin plasma levels were generally > 5 mcg / mL .
Metformin decreases liver uptake of lactate increasing lactate blood levels which may increase the risk of lactic acidosis , especially in patients at risk .
If metformin - associated lactic acidosis is suspected , general supportive measures should be instituted promptly in a hospital setting , along with immediate discontinuation of or metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets .
In metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets treated patients with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of lactic acidosis , prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove accumulated metformin ( metformin hydrochloride is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions ) .
Hemodialysis has often resulted in reversal of symptoms and recovery .
Educate patients and their families about the symptoms of lactic acidosis and , if these symptoms occur , instruct them to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets and report these symptoms to their healthcare provider .
For each of the known and possible risk factors for metformin - associated lactic acidosis , recommendations to reduce the risk of and manage metformin - associated lactic acidosis are provided below : • Renal impairment — The post marketing metformin - associated lactic acidosis cases primarily occurred in patients with significant renal impairment .
The risk of metformin accumulation and metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the severity of renal impairment because metformin is substantially excreted by the kidney .
Clinical recommendations based upon the patient ’ s renal function include ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) : o Before initiating metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets , obtain an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) o Metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
o Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets is not recommended in patients with eGFR between 30 - 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
o Obtain an eGFR at least annually in all patients taking metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets .
In patients at risk for the development of renal impairment ( e . g . , the elderly ) , renal function should be assessed more frequently .
o In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets whose eGFR falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit and risk of continuing therapy .
• Drug Interactions – The concomitant use of metformin hydrochloride extend release tablets with specific drugs may increase the risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis : those that impair renal function , result in significant hemodynamic change , interfere with acid - base balance , or increase metformin accumulation .
Consider more frequent monitoring of patients .
• Age 65 or greater — The risk of metformin - associated lactic acidosis increases with the patient ’ s age because elderly patients have a greater likelihood of having hepatic , renal , or cardiac impairment than younger patients .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients .
• Radiologic studies with contrast — Administration of intravascular iodinated contrast agents in metformin - treated patients has led to an acute decrease in renal function and the occurrence of lactic acidosis .
Stop metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of hepatic impairment , alcoholism or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure , and restart metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets if renal function is stable .
• Surgery and other procedures — withholding of food and fluids during surgical or other procedures may increase the risk for volume depletion , hypotension , and renal impairment .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be temporarily discontinued while patients have restricted food and fluid intake .
• Hypoxic states — several of the postmarketing cases of metformin - associated lactic acidosis occurred in the setting of acute congestive heart failure ( particularly when accompanied by hypoperfusion and hypoxemia ) .
Cardiovascular collapse ( shock ) , acute myocardial infarction , sepsis , and other conditions associated with hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may cause prerenal azotemia .
When such an event occurs , discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets .
• Excessive alcohol intake — Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Patients , therefore , should be warned against excessive alcohol intake , acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
• Hepatic impairment — Patients with hepatic impairment have developed cases of metformin associated lactic acidosis .
This may be due to impaired lactate clearance resulting in higher lactate blood levels .
Therefore , avoid use of metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease .
Vitamin B12 levels — In controlled clinical trials of metformin of 29 weeks duration , a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels , without clinical manifestations , was observed in approximately 7 % of patients .
Such decrease , possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12 - intrinsic factor complex , is , however , very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation .
Measurement of hematologic parameters on an annual basis is advised in patients on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and any apparent abnormalities should be appropriately investigated and managed ( see P R ECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Certain individuals ( those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption ) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels .
In these patients , routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at 2 - to 3 - year intervals may be useful .
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes — A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness ( especially vague and poorly defined illness ) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis .
Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones , blood glucose and , if indicated , blood pH , lactate , pyruvate , and metformin levels .
If acidosis of either form occurs , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated ( see also WARNINGS ) .
Hypoglycemia — Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets alone under usual circumstances of use , but could occur when caloric intake is deficient , when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation , or during concomitant use with other glucose - lowering agents ( such as sulfonylureas and insulin ) or ethanol .
Elderly , debilitated , or malnourished patients , and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects .
Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly , and in people who are taking beta - adrenergic blocking drugs .
Macrovascular Outcomes — There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets or any other anti - diabetic drug .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed of the potential risks and benefits of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and of alternative modes of therapy .
They should also be informed about the importance of adherence to dietary instructions , of a regular exercise program , and of regular testing of blood glucose , glycosylated hemoglobin , renal function , and hematologic parameters .
The risks of lactic acidosis , its symptoms , and conditions that predispose to its development , as noted in the WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections , should be explained to patients .
Patients should be advised to discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets immediately and to promptly notify their health practitioner if unexplained hyperventilation , myalgia , malaise , unusual somnolence , or other nonspecific symptoms occur .
Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , gastrointestinal symptoms , which are common during initiation of metformin therapy , are unlikely to be drug related .
Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease .
Patients should be counselled against excessive alcohol intake , either acute or chronic , while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets alone does not usually cause hypoglycemia , although it may occur when metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is used in conjunction with oral sulfonylureas and insulin .
When initiating combination therapy , the risks of hypoglycemia , its symptoms and treatment , and conditions that predispose to its development should be explained to patients and responsible family members .
( See Patient Information printed below . )
Patients should be informed that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and not crushed or chewed , and that the inactive ingredients may occasionally be eliminated in the feces as a soft mass that may resemble the original tablet .
Laboratory Tests Response to all diabetic therapies should be monitored by periodic measurements of fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels , with a goal of decreasing these levels toward the normal range .
During initial dose titration , fasting glucose can be used to determine the therapeutic response .
Thereafter , both glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin should be monitored .
Measurements of glycosylated hemoglobin may be especially useful for evaluating long - term control ( see also DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters ( e . g . , hemoglobin / hematocrit and red blood cell indices ) and renal function ( serum creatinine ) should be performed , at least on an annual basis . While megaloblastic anemia has rarely been seen with metformin hydrochloride therapy , if this is suspected , vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded .
Instruct patients to inform their doctor that they are taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets prior to any surgical or radiological procedure , as temporary discontinuation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be required until renal function has been confirmed to be normal ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
Drug Interactions ( Clinical Evaluation of Drug Interactions Conducted with Metformin hydrochloride ) Glyburide — In a single - dose interaction study in type 2 diabetes patients , coadministration of metformin and glyburide did not result in any changes in either metformin pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics .
Decreases in glyburide AUC and C max were observed , but were highly variable .
The single - dose nature of this study and the lack of correlation between glyburide blood levels and pharmacodynamic effects , makes the clinical significance of this interaction uncertain ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients ) .
Furosemide — A single - dose , metformin - furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by coadministration .
Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood C max by 22 % and blood AUC by 15 % , without any significant change in metformin renal clearance .
When administered with metformin , the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31 % and 12 % smaller , respectively , than when administered alone , and the terminal half - life was decreased by 32 % , without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance .
No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when coadministered chronically .
Nifedipine — A single - dose , metformin - nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co - administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin C max and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount excreted in the urine .
T max and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine .
Drugs that reduce metformin clearance — Concomitant use of drugs that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems involved in the renal elimination of metformin ( e . g . , organic cationic transporter - 2 [ OCT2 ] / multidrug and toxin extrusion [ MATE ] inhibitors such as ranolazine , vandetanib , dolutegravir , and cimetidine ) could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Consider the benefits and risks of concomitant use .
Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single - and multiple - dose , metformin - cimetidine drug interaction studies , with a 60 % increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40 % increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC .
There was no change in elimination half - life in the single - dose study .
Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics .
Although such interactions remain theoretical ( except for cimetidine ) , careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and / or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system .
Other — Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glycemic control .
These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics , corticosteroids , phenothiazines , thyroid products , estrogens , oral contraceptives , phenytoin , nicotinic acid , sympathomimetics , calcium channel blocking drugs , and isoniazid .
When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control .
When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia .
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors — Topiramate or other carbonic anhydrase inhibitors ( e . g . , zonisamide , acetazolamide or dichlorphenamide ) frequently cause a decrease in serum bicarbonate and induce non - anion gap , hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis .
Concomitant use of these drugs with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may increase the risk for lactic acidosis .
Consider more frequent monitoring of these patients .
Alcohol — Alcohol is known to potentiate the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism .
Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake while receiving metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term carcinogenicity studies have been performed in rats ( dosing duration of 104 weeks ) and mice ( dosing duration of 91 weeks ) at doses up to and including 900 mg / kg / day and 1500 mg / kg / day , respectively .
These doses are both approximately 4 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons .
No evidence of carcinogenicity with metformin was found in either male or female mice .
Similarly , there was no tumorigenic potential observed with metformin in male rats .
There was , however , an increased incidence of benign stromal uterine polyps in female rats treated with 900 mg / kg / day .
There was no evidence of a mutagenic potential of metformin in the following in vitro tests : Ames test ( S . typhimurium ) , gene mutation test ( mouse lymphoma cells ) , or chromosomal aberrations test ( human lymphocytes ) .
Results in the in vivo mouse micronucleus test were also negative .
Fertility of male or female rats was unaffected by metformin when administered at doses as high as 600 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human daily dose based on body surface area comparisons .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category B Recent information strongly suggests that abnormal blood glucose levels during pregnancy are associated with a higher incidence of congenital abnormalities .
Most experts recommend that insulin be used during pregnancy to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal as possible .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly needed .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Metformin was not teratogenic in rats and rabbits at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day .
This represents an exposure of about 2 and 6 times the maximum recommended human daily dose of 2000 mg based on body surface area comparisons for rats and rabbits , respectively .
Determination of fetal concentrations demonstrated a partial placental barrier to metformin .
Nursing Mothers Studies in lactating rats show that metformin is excreted into milk and reaches levels comparable to those in plasma .
Similar studies have not been conducted in nursing mothers .
Because the potential for hypoglycemia in nursing infants may exist , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
If metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is discontinued , and if diet alone is inadequate for controlling blood glucose , insulin therapy should be considered .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Controlled clinical studies of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients , although other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy and the higher risk of lactic acidosis .
Assess renal function more frequently in elderly patients ( see WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) ADVERSE REACTIONS In A US double blind clinical study of metformin hydrochloride tablets in patients with type 2 diabetes , a total of 141 patients received metformin hydrochloride tablets therapy ( up to 2550 mg per day ) and 145 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin hydrochloride tablets patients , and that were more common in metformin hydrochloride tablets than placebo treated patients , are listed in Table 6 .
Table 6 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 Percent ) in a Placebo - Controlled Clinical Study of Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets Monotherapy * Adverse Reaction Metformin Hydrochloride Tablets ( n = 141 ) Placebo ( n = 145 ) % of Patients Diarrhea 53 . 2 11 . 7 Nausea / Vomiting 25 . 5 8 . 3 Flatulence 12 . 1 5 . 5 Asthenia 9 . 2 5 . 5 Indigestion 7 . 1 4 . 1 Abdominal Discomfort 6 . 4 4 . 8 Headache 5 . 7 4 . 8 * Reactions that were more common in metformin hydrochloride tablets than placebo treated patients .
Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 6 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 - ≤ 5 % of metformin hydrochloride tablets patients and myalgia , lightheaded , dyspnea , nail disorder , rash , sweating increased , taste disorder , chest discomfort , chills , flu syndrome , flushing , and palpitation .
In worldwide clinical trials over 900 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in placebo and active controlled studies .
In placebo controlled trails , 781 patients were administered metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and 195 patients received placebo .
Adverse reactions reported in greater than 5 % of the metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets patients , and that were more common in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets than placebo treated patients are listed in Table 7 .
Table 7 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( > 5 Percent ) in Placebo - Controlled Studies of Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets * Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ( N = 781 ) Placebo ( N = 195 ) Adverse Reactions % of patients Diarrhea 9 . 6 2 . 6 Nausea / Vomiting 6 . 5 1 . 5 Diarrhea led to discontinuation of study medication in 0 . 6 % of patients treated with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Additionally , the following adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 1 - ≤ 5 % of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets patients and were more commonly reported with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets than placebo : abdominal pain , constipation , distention abdomen , dyspepsia / heartburn , flatulence , dizziness , headache , upper respiratory infection , taste disturbance .
* Reactions that were more common in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets than placebo treated patients .
OVERDOSAGE Overdose of metformin hydrochloride has occurred , including ingestion of amounts greater than 50 grams .
Hypoglycemia was reported in approximately 10 % of cases , but no causal association with metformin hydrochloride has been established .
Lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately 32 % of metformin overdose cases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Metformin is dialyzable with a clearance of up to 170 mL / min under good hemodynamic conditions .
Therefore , hemodialysis may be useful for removal of accumulated drug from patients in whom metformin overdosage is suspected .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION There is no fixed dosage regimen for the management of hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP or any other pharmacologic agent .
Dosage of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP must be individualized on the basis of both effectiveness and tolerance , while not exceeding the maximum recommended daily doses .
The maximum recommended daily dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP in adults is 2000 mg .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP should generally be given once daily with the evening meal .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP should be started at a low dose , with gradual dose escalation , both to reduce gastrointestinal side effects and to permit identification of the minimum dose required for adequate glycemic control of the patient .
During treatment initiation and dose titration ( see Recommended Dosing Schedule ) , fasting plasma glucose should be used to determine the therapeutic response to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP and identify the minimum effective dose for the patient .
Thereafter , glycosylated hemoglobin should be measured at intervals of approximately 3 months .
The therapeutic goal should be to decrease both fasting plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels to normal or near normal by using the lowest effective dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP either when used as monotherapy or in combination with sulfonylurea or insulin .
Monitoring of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin will also permit detection of primary failure , i . e . , inadequate lowering of blood glucose at the maximum recommended dose of medication , and secondary failure , i . e . , loss of an adequate blood glucose lowering response after an initial period of effectiveness .
Short - term administration of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP may be sufficient during periods of transient loss of control in patients usually well - controlled on diet alone .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP will be eliminated in the feces as a soft , hydrated mass .
( See Patient Informationprinted below . )
Recommended Dosing Schedule Adults In general , clinically significant responses are not seen at doses below 1500 mg per day .
However , a lower recommended starting dose and gradually increased dosage is advised to minimize gastrointestinal symptoms .
The usual starting dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP is 500 mg once daily with the evening meal .
Dosage increases should be made in increments of 500 mg weekly , up to a maximum of 2000 mg once daily with the evening meal .
If glycemic control is not achieved on metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP 2000 mg once daily , a trial of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP 1000 mg twice daily should be considered .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies . )
In a randomized trial , patients currently treated with metformin hydrochloride tablets were switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Results of this trial suggest that patients receiving metformin hydrochloride tablets treatment may be safely switched to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets once daily at the same total daily dose , up to 2000 mg once daily .
Following a switch from metformin hydrochloride tablets to metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , glycemic control should be closely monitored and dosage adjustments made accordingly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
Pediatrics Safety and effectiveness of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP in pediatric patients have not been established .
Recommendations for Use in Renal Impairment Assess renal function prior to initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and periodically thereafter .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 .
Initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets in patients with an eGFR between 30 to 45 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 is not recommended .
In patients taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets whose eGFR later falls below 45 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 , assess the benefit risk of continuing therapy .
Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if the patients eGFR later falls below 30 mL / minute / 1 . 73 m2 ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Discontinuation for Iodinated Contrast Imaging Procedures Discontinue metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets at the time of , or prior to , an iodinated contrast imaging procedure in patients with an eGFR between 30 and 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ; in patients with a history of liver disease , alcoholism , or heart failure ; or in patients who will be administered intra - arterial iodinated contrast .
Re - evaluate eGFR 48 hours after the imaging procedure ; restart metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if renal function is stable .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP and Oral Sulfonylurea Therapy in Adult Patients If patients have not responded to 4 weeks of the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets monotherapy , consideration should be given to gradual addition of an oral sulfonylurea while continuing metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP at the maximum dose , even if prior primary or secondary failure to a sulfonylurea has occurred .
Clinical and pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction data are currently available only for metformin plus glyburide ( glibenclamide ) .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets and sulfonylurea therapy , the desired control of blood glucose may be obtained by adjusting the dose of each drug .
In a clinical trial of patients with type 2 diabetes and prior failure on glyburide , patients started on metformin hydrochloride tablets 500 mg and glyburide 20 mg were titrated to 1000 / 20 mg , 1500 / 20 mg , 2000 / 20 mg or 2500 / 20 mg of metformin hydrochloride tablets and glyburide , respectively , to reach the goal of glycemic control as measured by FPG , HbA1c and plasma glucose response ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Clinical Studies ) .
However , attempts should be made to identify the minimum effective dose of each drug to achieve this goal .
With concomitant metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP and sulfonylurea therapy , the risk of hypoglycemia associated with sulfonylurea therapy continues and may be increased .
Appropriate precautions should be taken .
( See Package Insert of the respective sulfonylurea . )
If patients have not satisfactorily responded to 1 to 3 months of concomitant therapy with the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tabletsand the maximum dose of an oral sulfonylurea , consider therapeutic alternatives including switching to insulin with or without metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Concomitant Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets and Insulin Therapy in Adult Patients The current insulin dose should be continued upon initiation of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets therapy should be initiated at 500 mg once daily in patients on insulin therapy .
For patients not responding adequately , the dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be increased by 500 mg after approximately 1 week and by 500 mg every week thereafter until adequate glycemic control is achieved .
The maximum recommended daily dose is 2000 mg for metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
It is recommended that the insulin dose be decreased by 10 % to 25 % when fasting plasma glucose concentrations decrease to less than 120 mg / dL in patients receiving concomitant insulin and metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP .
Further adjustment should be individualized based on glucose - lowering response .
Specific Patient Populations Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets is not recommended for use in pregnancy .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , USP is not recommended in pediatric patients ( below the age of 17 years ) .
The initial and maintenance dosing of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets should be conservative in patients with advanced age , due to the potential for decreased renal function in this population .
Any dosage adjustment should be based on a careful assessment of renal function .
Generally , elderly , debilitated , and malnourished patients should not be titrated to the maximum dose of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of lactic acidosis , particularly in the elderly .
( See WARNINGS . )
SPL PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP Read this information carefully before you start taking this medicine and each time you refill your prescription .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of your doctor ’ s advice .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you do not understand some of this information or if you want to know more about this medicine .
What are Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets ?
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets are used to treat type 2 diabetes .
This is also known as non - insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus .
People with type 2 diabetes are not able to make enough insulin or respond normally to the insulin their bodies make .
When this happens , sugar ( glucose ) builds up in the blood .
This can lead to serious medical problems including kidney damage , amputations , and blindness .
Diabetes is also closely linked to heart disease .
The main goal of treating diabetes is to lower your blood sugar to a normal level .
High blood sugar can be lowered by diet and exercise , by a number of medicines taken by mouth , and by insulin shots .
Before you take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , try to control your diabetes by exercise and weight loss .
While you take your diabetes medicine , continue to exercise and follow the diet advised for your diabetes .
No matter what your recommended diabetes management plan is , studies have shown that maintaining good blood sugar control can prevent or delay complications of diabetes , such as blindness .
Metformin hydrochloride and Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have the same active ingredient .
However , metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works longer in your body .
Both of these medicines help control your blood sugar in a number of ways .
These include helping your body respond better to the insulin it makes naturally , decreasing the amount of sugar your liver makes , and decreasing the amount of sugar your intestines absorb .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets do not cause your body to make more insulin .
Because of this , when taken alone , they rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) , and usually do not cause weight gain .
However , when they are taken with a sulfonylurea or with insulin , hypoglycemia is more likely to occur , as is weight gain .
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may not be right for you .
Talk with your doctor about your choices .
You should also discuss your choices with your doctor if you are nursing a child .
Can Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets be used in children ?
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets has not been studied in children .
How should I take Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Your doctor will tell you how much medicine to take and when to take it .
You will probably start out with a low dose of the medicine .
Your doctor may slowly increase your dose until your blood sugar is better controlled .
You should take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with meals .
Your doctor may have you take other medicines along with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets to control your blood sugar .
These medicines may include insulin shots .
Taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets with insulin may help you better control your blood sugar while reducing the insulin dose .
Continue your exercise and diet program and test your blood sugar regularly while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
Your doctor will monitor your diabetes and may perform blood tests on you from time to time to make sure your kidneys and your liver are functioning normally .
There is no evidence that metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets causes harm to the liver or kidneys .
Tell your doctor if you : • have an illness that causes severe vomiting , diarrhea or fever , or if you drink a much lower amount of liquid than normal .
These conditions can lead to severe dehydration ( loss of water in your body ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a short time .
• plan to have surgery or an x - ray procedure with injection of dye ( contrast agent ) .
You may need to stop taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a short time .
• start to take other medicines or change how you take a medicine .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets can affect how well other drugs work , and some drugs can affect how well metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets work .
Some medicines may cause high blood sugar .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets must be swallowed whole and never crushed or chewed .
Occasionally , the inactive ingredients of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets may be eliminated as a soft mass in your stool that may look like the original tablet ; this is not harmful and will not affect the way metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets works to control your diabetes .
What should I avoid while taking Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
Do not drink a lot of alcoholic drinks while taking metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets .
This means you should not binge drink for short periods , and you should not drink a lot of alcohol on a regular basis .
Alcohol can increase the chance of getting lactic acidosis .
What are the side effects of Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets ?
• Lactic acidosis .
Metformin , the active ingredient in metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets , can cause a rare but serious condition called lactic acidosis ( a buildup of an acid in the blood ) that can cause death .
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in the hospital .
Call your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms , which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • you feel cold in your hands or feet • you feel dizzy or lightheaded • you have a slow or irregular heartbeat • you feel very weak or tired • you have unusual ( not normal ) muscle pain • you have trouble breathing • you feel sleepy or drowsy • you have stomach pains , nausea or vomiting Most people who have had lactic acidosis with metformin have other things that , combined with the metformin , led to the lactic acidosis .
Tell your doctor if you have any of the following , because you have a higher chance for getting lactic acidosis with metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets if you : • have severe kidney problems , or your kidneys are affected by certain x - ray tests that use injectable dye • have liver problems • drink alcohol very often , or drink a lot of alcohol in short - term " binge " drinking • get dehydrated ( lose a large amount of body fluids ) .
This can happen if you are sick with a fever , vomiting , or diarrhea .
Dehydration can also happen when you sweat a lot with activity or exercise and do not drink enough fluids • have surgery • have a heart attack , severe infection , or stroke The best way to keep from having a problem with lactic acidosis from metformin is to tell your doctor if you have any of the problems in the list above .
Your doctor may decide to stop your metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a while if you have any of these things .
Other Side Effects .
Common side effects of metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets include diarrhea , nausea , and upset stomach .
These side effects generally go away after you take the medicine for a while .
Taking your medicine with meals can help reduce these side effects .
Tell your doctor if the side effects bother you a lot , last for more than a few weeks , come back after they ’ ve gone away , or start later in therapy .
You may need a lower dose or need to stop taking the medicine for a short period or for good .
About 3 out of every 100 people who take metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets have an unpleasant metallic taste when they start taking the medicine .
It lasts for a short time .
Metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets rarely cause hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) by themselves .
However , hypoglycemia can happen if you do not eat enough , if you drink alcohol or if you take other medicines to lower blood sugar .
General advice about prescription medicines If you have questions or problems , talk with your doctor or other healthcare provider .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for the information about metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets that is written for healthcare professionals .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a patient information leaflet .
Do not use metformin hydrochloride extended - release tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not share your medicine with other people .
Manufactured by : Granules India Limited Hyderabad - 500 081 , India Manufactured For : Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Chantilly , VA 20151 .
Revision Date : May 2018 HOW SUPPLIED Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 500 mg Bottles of 30 NDC 70010 - 491 - 03 500 mg Bottles of 90 NDC 70010 - 491 - 09 500 mg Bottles of 100 NDC 70010 - 491 - 01 500 mg Bottles of 500 NDC 70010 - 491 - 05 500 mg Bottles of 1000 NDC 70010 - 491 - 10 750 mg Bottles of 30 NDC 70010 - 492 - 03 750 mg Bottles of 90 NDC 70010 - 492 - 09 750 mg Bottles of 100 NDC 70010 - 492 - 01 750 mg Bottles of 500 NDC 70010 - 492 - 05 750 mg Bottles of 1000 NDC 70010 - 492 - 10 Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 500 mg tablets are white to off - white uncoated , modified capsule shaped tablets debossed with “ G7 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Metformin Hydrochloride Extended - Release Tablets , USP 750 mg tablets are white to off - white uncoated , modified capsule shaped tablets debossed with “ G8 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted within 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Dispense in light - resistant containers .
Manufactured by : Granules India Limited Hyderabad - 500 081 , India Manufactured for : Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Chantilly , VA 20151 .
Revision date : March 2020 Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 500 mg 90 71610 - 613 - 60 180 71610 - 613 - 80 360 71610 - 613 - 94 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20211210 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 500 mg NDC 71610 - 613 - Metformin HCl ER , USP 500 mg Tablets - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
