DESCRIPTION Donnatal ® Elixir - Grape Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) of elixir ( alcohol not more than 23 . 8 % ) contains : Phenobarbital , USP ............................................. 16 . 2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP ............................... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP ....................................... 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP .................... 0 . 0065 mg Inactive Ingredients Purified Water , Glycerin , Sorbitol , Ethyl Alcohol , Sucrose , Saccharin Sodium , Artificial and Natural Grape Flavor , FD & C Red # 3 , and FD & C Blue # 1 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific , fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the indications as follows : " Possibly " effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS • glaucoma ; • obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; • obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; • paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; • unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; • severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon ; • myasthenia gravis ; • hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis ; • in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
WARNINGS Donnatal ® Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal ® Elixir .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids ( fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Donnatal ® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs .
Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver , they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS General Use with caution in patients with : • autonomic neuropathy • hepatic or renal disease • hyperthyroidism • coronary heart disease • congestive heart failure • cardiac arrhythmias • tachycardia • hypertension Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
Information for Patients Donnatal ® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Drug Interactions Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal ® Elixir .
There is positive evidence of human fetal risk based on adverse reaction data from investigational or marketing experience or studies in humans , but potential benefits may warrant use of the drug in pregnant women despite potential risks ( see WARNINGS ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Donnatal ® Elixir is administered to a nursing woman .
Geriatric Use Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation , drowsiness , and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include xerostomia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; musculoskeletal pain ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , urticaria , and other dermal manifestations ; and decreased sweating .
Acquired hypersensitivity to barbiturates consists chiefly in allergic reactions that occur especially in persons who tend to have asthma , urticaria , angioedema , and similar conditions .
Hypersensitivity reactions in this category include localized swelling , particularly of the eyelids , cheeks , or lips , and erythematous dermatitis .
Rarely , exfoliative dermatitis ( e . g . Stevens - Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis ) may be caused by phenobarbital and can prove fatal .
The skin eruption may be associated with fever , delirium , and marked degenerative changes in the liver and other parenchymatous organs .
In a few cases , megaloblastic anemia has been associated with the chronic use of phenobarbital .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact VistaPharm , Inc . at 1 - 888 - 655 - 1505 or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Abuse Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs ( see WARNINGS ) .
Dependence In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics , and activated charcoal .
If indicated , parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride should be used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Donnatal ® Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Donnatal ® Elixir .
Adults : One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms .
Pediatric patients : may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours .
Use a pediatric dosing device or oral syringe to measure the dose .
Starting DosageBody weight Every 4 hours Every 6 hours 10 lb .
( 4 . 5 kg ) 0 . 5 mL 0 . 75 mL 20 lb .
( 9 . 1 kg ) 1 mL 1 . 5 mL 30 lb .
( 13 . 6 kg ) 1 . 5 mL 2 mL 50 lb .
( 22 . 7 kg ) 2 . 5 mL 3 . 75 mL 75 lb .
( 34 kg ) 3 . 75 mL 5 mL 100 lb .
( 45 . 4 kg ) 5 mL 7 . 5 mL HOW SUPPLIED Donnatal ® Elixir - Grape is a purple colored , grape flavored liquid .
• NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 : 5 mL unit dose cup .
• NDC 66689 - 063 - 10 : Case contains 10 unit - dose cups of 5 mL ( NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 ) , packed in 1 tray of 10 unit - dose cups ; • NDC 66689 - 063 - 40 : Case contains 40 unit - dose cups of 5 mL ( NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 ) , packed in 4 trays of 10 unit - dose cups ; • NDC 66689 - 063 - 50 : Case contains 50 unit - dose cups of 5 mL ( NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 ) , packed in 5 trays of 10 unit - dose cups ; • NDC 66689 - 063 - 99 : Case contains 100 unit - dose cups of 5 mL ( NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 ) , packed in 10 trays of 10 unit - dose cups ; Avoid Freezing Store Donnatal ® Elixir at 20º - 25ºC ( 68º - 77ºF ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
DEA EXEMPT PRODUCT Distributed By : VistaPharm , Inc .
Largo , FL 33771 VP2189R2 Rev . 10 / 20 Made in USA .
Principal Display Panel - Donnatal Elixir - Grape , 4 oz Donnatal ® Elixir grape flavored Each 5 mL contains : Phenobarbital , USP .............................. 16 . 2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP ............... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP ......................
0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP .... 0 . 0065 mg Alcohol not more than 23 . 8 % Delivers 5 mL For Institutional Use Only Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) ( see USP ) Avoid freezing .
DEA EXEMPT PRODUCT NDC 66689 - 063 - 01 Dist .
by : VistaPharm , Inc .
Largo , FL , USA Rx Only VP2196R5 Rev . 05 / 22 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
