Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of most • athlete ’ s foot ( tinea pedis ) • ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • effectively soothes and relieves • itching • burning • cracking • helps prevent most athlete ’ s foot from coming back with daily use Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near flame or spark or while smoking .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate or store at temperatures above 120 ° F ( 49 ° C ) .
• use only as directed .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement within 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well before use • hold can about 6 inches from the area to be treated • spray a thin layer over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ’ s foot , pay special attention to spaces between the toes .
Wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily .
• use daily for 4 weeks .
If condition lasts longer , ask a doctor .
• to prevent athlete ’ s foot , apply to the feet once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails • in case of clogging , clean nozzle with a pin Inactive ingredients alcohol SD 40 - B , aluminum starch octenylsuccinate , isobutane , isopropyl myristate , propane , propylene carbonate , sorbitan monooleate , stearalkonium hectorite , talc Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Principal Display Panel Athlete ’ s Foot Antifungal Powder Spray Tolnaftate 1 % Cures & prevents most athlete ’ s foot Relieves itching & burning NET WT 4 . 6 OZ ( 130 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
