Active ingredients Carbamide Peroxide 6 . 5 % non USP * * pH differs from USP specifications Purposes Earwax removal aid Uses For occasional use as an aid to soften , loosen and remove excessive earwax Warnings Do not use • if you have ear drainage or discharge , ear pain , irritation , or rash in the ear or are dizzy ; consult a doctor • If you have an injury or perforation ( hole ) of the ear or after ear surgery , unless directed by a doctor • for more than 4 consecutive days .
If excessive earwax remains after use of this product , consult a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes Stop use and ask a doctor • you need to use for more than four days • excessive earwax remains after a four day treatment with this product Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions FOR USE IN THE EAR ONLY Remove any earing aids before use Adults and children over 12 yrs of age : tilt head to the side and place 10 drops into the ear .
• Tip of applicator should not enter into the ear canal • Keep drops in ear for several minutes by keeping head tilted sideways or placing cotton in the ear .
• Use twice daily for up to 4 days if needed , or as directed by a doctor .
• Any wax remaining after treatment may be removed by gently flushing the ear with warm water , using a soft rubber bulb ear syringe .
Children under 12 yrs of age : Consult a physician .
Other information • do not store above 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) • store bottle in outer carton • product foams on contact with ear was due to the release of oxygen .
There may be an associated “ crackling ” sound .
• keep cap on bottle when not in use Inactive ingredients Citric Acid , Flavor , Glycerin , Propylene Glycol , Sodium Lauroyl Sarcosinate , Sodium Stannate , Purified Water .
Questions & comments ?
call toll free 1 - 888 - 235 - 2466 ( Mon - Fri 9 AM - 5 PM EST ) a + health ™ ear drops carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % earwax removal aid SEALED FOR YOUR PROTECTION .
DO NOT USE IF SHRINKBAND ON BOTTLE IS BROKEN OR MISSING AT TIME OF PURCHASE .
* This product is not manufactured or distributed by Prestige Brands Inc . , owner of the registered trademark Debrox ® .
DISTRIBUTED BY : Bionpharma Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 L0000592 R0422 Carton labeling * compare to the active ingredient in Debrox ® Ear Drops twin pack a + health ™ ear drops carbamide peroxide 6 . 5 % earwax removal aid safe , gentle , non - irritating easily cleanses ear with microfoam action 1 fl oz ( 30 mL ) two bottles 0 . 5 fl oz ( 15 mL ) each [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
