1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Memantine hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
Memantine HCl is an N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended starting dose of Memantine HCl is 5 mg once daily .
The dose should be increased in 5 mg increments to 10 mg / day ( 5 mg twice daily ) , 15 mg / day ( 5 mg and 10 mg as separate doses ) , and 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice daily ) .
The minimum recommended interval between dose increases is one week .
The dosage shown to be effective in controlled clinical trials is 20 mg / day .
Memantine HCl can be taken with or without food .
If a patient misses a single dose of Memantine HCl , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take Memantine HCl for several days , dosing may need to be resumed at lower doses and retitrated as described above .
Do not mix Memantine HCl oral solution with any other liquid .
The oral solution is administered with a dosing device that comes with the drug and consists of a syringe , syringe adaptor cap , tubing and other supplies a patient needs to administer the drug .
The supplied syringe should be used to withdraw the correct volume of oral solution and the oral solution should be slowly squirted into the corner of the patient ' s mouth .
• May be taken with or without food ( 2 ) • Initial dose is 5 mg once daily .
Increase dose in 5 mg increments to a maintenance dose of 10 mg twice daily .
A minimum of 1 week of treatment with the previous dose should be observed before increasing the dose .
( 2 ) • Severe renal impairment : recommended dose is 5 mg twice daily .
( 2 ) Special Populations Renal Impairment A target dose of 5 mg twice daily is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 5 – 29 mL / min based on the Cockroft - Gault equation ) .
Hepatic Impairment Memantine HCl should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Memantine HCl 5 mg tablet : capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets are tan , with the strength ( 5 ) debossed on one side and FL on the other .
Memantine HCl 10 mg tablet : capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets are gray , with the strength ( 10 ) debossed on one side and FL on the other .
Memantine HCl 2 mg / mL oral solution : clear , alcohol - free , sugar - free , and peppermint flavored .
• Tablets : 5 mg and 10 mg ( 3 ) • Oral Solution : 2 mg / mL ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Memantine hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
• Memantine HCl is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to memantine hydrochloride or to any excipients used in the formulation .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine , resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine .
( 5 . 1 , 7 . 1 ) 5 . 1 Genitourinary Conditions Conditions that raise urine pH may decrease the urinary elimination of memantine resulting in increased plasma levels of memantine [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 5 % and greater than placebo ) are dizziness , headache , confusion and constipation .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Memantine HCl was evaluated in eight double - blind placebo - controlled trials involving a total of 1862 dementia ( Alzheimer ' s disease , vascular dementia ) patients ( 940 patients treated with Memantine HCl and 922 patients treated with placebo ) for a treatment period up to 28 weeks .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation In placebo - controlled trials in which dementia patients received doses of Memantine HCl up to 20 mg / day , the likelihood of discontinuation because of an adverse reaction was the same in the Memantine HCl group ( 10 . 1 % ) as in the placebo group ( 11 . 5 % ) .
No individual adverse reaction was associated with the discontinuation of treatment in 1 % or more of Memantine HCl - treated patients and at a rate greater than placebo .
Most Common Adverse Reactions In double - blind placebo - controlled trials involving dementia patients , the most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 5 % and higher than placebo ) in patients treated with Memantine HCl were dizziness , headache , confusion and constipation .
Table 1 lists all adverse reactions that occurred in at least 2 % of patients treated with Memantine HCl and at an incidence greater than placebo .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Reported in Controlled Clinical Trials in at Least 2 % of Patients Receiving Memantine HCl and at a Higher Frequency than Placebo - treated Patients Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 922 ) % Memantine HCl ( N = 940 ) % Body as a Whole Fatigue 1 2 Pain 1 3 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 4 Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 5 7 Headache 3 6 Gastrointestinal System Constipation 3 5 Vomiting 2 3 Musculoskeletal System Back pain 2 3 Psychiatric Disorders Confusion 5 6 Somnolence 2 3 Hallucination 2 3 Respiratory System Coughing 3 4 Dyspnea 1 2 The overall profile of adverse reactions and the incidence rates for individual adverse reactions in the subpopulation of patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease were not different from the profile and incidence rates described above for the overall dementia population .
Seizures Memantine HCl has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder .
In clinical trials of Memantine HCl , seizures occurred in 0 . 2 % of patients treated with Memantine HCl and 0 . 5 % of patients treated with placebo .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of memantine .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These reactions include : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders - agranulocytosis , leukopenia ( including neutropenia ) , pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura .
Cardiac Disorders - cardiac failure congestive .
Gastrointestinal Disorders - pancreatitis .
Hepatobiliary Disorders – hepatitis .
Psychiatric Disorders - suicidal ideation .
Renal and Urinary Disorders - acute renal failure ( including increased creatinine and renal insufficiency ) .
Skin Disorders - Stevens Johnson syndrome .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Drugs that Make the Urine Alkaline The clearance of memantine was reduced by about 80 % under alkaline urine conditions at pH 8 .
Therefore , alterations of urine pH towards the alkaline condition may lead to an accumulation of the drug with a possible increase in adverse effects .
Urine pH is altered by diet , drugs ( e . g . carbonic anhydrase inhibitors , sodium bicarbonate ) and clinical state of the patient ( e . g . renal tubular acidosis or severe infections of the urinary tract ) .
Hence , memantine should be used with caution under these conditions .
7 . 2 Use with Other N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) Antagonists The combined use of Memantine HCl with other NMDA antagonists ( amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan ) has not been systematically evaluated and such use should be approached with caution .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of memantine in pregnant women .
Memantine HCl should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Memantine given orally to pregnant rats and pregnant rabbits during the period of organogenesis was not teratogenic up to the highest doses tested ( 18 mg / kg / day in rats and 30 mg / kg / day in rabbits , which are 9 and 30 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Slight maternal toxicity , decreased pup weights and an increased incidence of non - ossified cervical vertebrae were seen at an oral dose of 18 mg / kg / day in a study in which rats were given oral memantine beginning pre - mating and continuing through the postpartum period .
Slight maternal toxicity and decreased pup weights were also seen at this dose in a study in which rats were treated from day 15 of gestation through the postpartum period .
The no - effect dose for these effects was 6 mg / kg , which is 3 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Memantine HCl is administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The majority of people with Alzheimer ' s disease are 65 years and older .
In the clinical studies of Memantine HCl the mean age of patients was approximately 76 ; over 90 % of patients were 65 years and older , 60 % were 75 years and older , and 12 % were at or above 85 years of age .
The efficacy and safety data presented in the clinical trial sections were obtained from these patients .
There were no clinically meaningful differences in most adverse events reported by patient groups ≥ 65 years old and < 65 year old .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment .
A dosage reduction is recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No dosage adjustment is needed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine HCl should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Signs and symptoms most often accompanying memantine overdosage in clinical trials and from worldwide marketing experience , alone or in combination with other drugs and / or alcohol , include agitation , asthenia , bradycardia , confusion , coma , dizziness , ECG changes , increased blood pressure , lethargy , loss of consciousness , psychosis , restlessness , slowed movement , somnolence , stupor , unsteady gait , visual hallucinations , vertigo , vomiting , and weakness .
The largest known ingestion of memantine worldwide was 2 . 0 grams in a patient who took memantine in conjunction with unspecified antidiabetic medications .
The patient experienced coma , diplopia , and agitation , but subsequently recovered .
Fatal outcome has been very rarely reported with memantine , and the relationship to memantine was unclear .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a poison control center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As in any cases of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized , and treatment should be symptomatic .
Elimination of memantine can be enhanced by acidification of urine .
11 DESCRIPTION Memantine hydrochloride is an orally active NMDA receptor antagonist .
The chemical name for memantine hydrochloride is 1 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethyladamantane hydrochloride with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular formula is C12H21N • HCl and the molecular weight is 215 . 76 .
Memantine HCl occurs as a fine white to off - white powder and is soluble in water .
Memantine HCl is available as tablets or as an oral solution .
Memantine HCl is available for oral administration as capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets containing 5 mg and 10 mg of memantine hydrochloride .
The tablets also contain the following inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose / colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , croscarmellose sodium , and magnesium stearate .
In addition the following inactive ingredients are also present as components of the film coat : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C yellow # 6 and FD & C blue # 2 ( 5 mg tablets ) , and hypromellose , titanium dioxide , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 400 and iron oxide black ( 10 mg tablets ) .
Memantine HCl oral solution contains memantine hydrochloride in a strength equivalent to 2 mg of memantine hydrochloride in each mL .
The oral solution also contains the following inactive ingredients : sorbitol solution ( 70 % ) , methylparaben , propylparaben , propylene glycol , glycerin , natural peppermint flavor # 104 , citric acid , sodium citrate , and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Persistent activation of central nervous system N - methyl - D - aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors by the excitatory amino acid glutamate has been hypothesized to contribute to the symptomatology of Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect through its action as a low to moderate affinity uncompetitive ( open - channel ) NMDA receptor antagonist which binds preferentially to the NMDA receptor - operated cation channels .
There is no evidence that memantine prevents or slows neurodegeneration in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Memantine showed low to negligible affinity for GABA , benzodiazepine , dopamine , adrenergic , histamine and glycine receptors and for voltage - dependent Ca2 + , Na + or K + channels .
Memantine also showed antagonistic effects at the 5HT3 receptor with a potency similar to that for the NMDA receptor and blocked nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with one - sixth to one - tenth the potency .
In vitro studies have shown that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase by donepezil , galantamine , or tacrine .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following oral administration memantine is highly absorbed with peak concentrations reached in about 3 - 7 hours .
Memantine has linear pharmacokinetics over the therapeutic dose range .
Food has no effect on the absorption of memantine .
Distribution The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9 - 11 L / kg and the plasma protein binding is low ( 45 % ) .
Metabolism Memantine undergoes partial hepatic metabolism .
The hepatic microsomal CYP450 enzyme system does not play a significant role in the metabolism of memantine .
Elimination Memantine is excreted predominantly ( about 48 % ) unchanged in urine and has a terminal elimination half - life of about 60 - 80 hours .
The remainder is converted primarily to three polar metabolites which possess minimal NMDA receptor antagonistic activity : the N - glucuronide conjugate , 6 - hydroxy memantine , and 1 - nitroso - deaminated memantine .
A total of 74 % of the administered dose is excreted as the sum of the parent drug and the N - glucuronide conjugate .
Renal clearance involves active tubular secretion moderated by pH dependent tubular reabsorption .
Pharmacokinetics in Specific Populations Gender Following multiple dose administration of Memantine HCl 20 mg daily , females had about 45 % higher exposure than males , but there was no difference in exposure when body weight was taken into account .
Elderly The pharmacokinetics of Memantine HCl in young and elderly subjects are similar .
Renal Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following single oral administration of 20 mg memantine HCl in 8 subjects with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance , CLcr , > 50 – 80 mL / min ) , 8 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr 30 – 49 mL / min ) , 7 subjects with severe renal impairment ( CLcr 5 – 29 mL / min ) and 8 healthy subjects ( CLcr > 80 mL / min ) matched as closely as possible by age , weight and gender to the subjects with renal impairment .
Mean AUC0 - ∞ increased by 4 % , 60 % , and 115 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The terminal elimination half - life increased by 18 % , 41 % , and 95 % in subjects with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
No dosage adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate renal impairment .
Dosage should be reduced in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment Memantine pharmacokinetics were evaluated following the administration of single oral doses of 20 mg in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class B , score 7 - 9 ) and 8 subjects who were age - , gender - , and weight - matched to the hepatically - impaired subjects .
There was no change in memantine exposure ( based on Cmax and AUC ) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
However , terminal elimination half - life increased by about 16 % in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment as compared with healthy subjects .
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment .
Memantine should be administered with caution to patients with severe hepatic impairment as the pharmacokinetics of memantine have not been evaluated in that population .
Drug - Drug Interactions Use with Cholinesterase Inhibitors Coadministration of memantine with the AChE inhibitor donepezil HCl did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either compound .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect AChE inhibition by donepezil .
In a 24 - week controlled clinical study in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease , the adverse event profile observed with a combination of Memantine HCl and donepezil was similar to that of donepezil alone .
Effect of Memantine HCl on the Metabolism of Other Drugs In vitro studies conducted with marker substrates of CYP450 enzymes ( CYP1A2 , - 2A6 , - 2C9 , - 2D6 , - 2E1 , - 3A4 ) showed minimal inhibition of these enzymes by memantine .
In addition , in vitro studies indicate that at concentrations exceeding those associated with efficacy , memantine does not induce the cytochrome P450 isozymes CYP1A2 , - 2C9 , - 2E1 and - 3A4 / 5 .
No pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs metabolized by these enzymes are expected .
Pharmacokinetic studies evaluated the potential of memantine for interaction with warfarin , and buproprion .
Memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics of the CYP2B6 substrate buproprion or its metabolite hydroxybuproprion .
Furthermore , memantine did not affect the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of warfarin as assessed by the prothrombin INR .
Effect of Other Drugs on Memantine HCl Memantine is predominantly renally eliminated , and drugs that are substrates and / or inhibitors of the CYP450 system are not expected to alter the metabolism of memantine .
Drugs Eliminated via Renal Mechanisms Because memantine is eliminated in part by tubular secretion , coadministration of drugs that use the same renal cationic system , including hydrochlorothiazide ( HCTZ ) , triamterene ( TA ) , metformin , cimetidine , ranitidine , quinidine , and nicotine , could potentially result in altered plasma levels of both agents .
However , coadministration of Memantine HCl and HCTZ / TA did not affect the bioavailability of either memantine or TA , and the bioavailability of HCTZ decreased by 20 % .
In addition , coadministration of memantine with the antihyperglycemic drug Glucovance ® ( glyburide and metformin HCl ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of memantine , metformin and glyburide .
Furthermore , memantine did not modify the serum glucose lowering effect of Glucovance ® , indicating the absence of a pharmacodynamic interaction .
Drugs Highly Bound to Plasma Proteins Because the plasma protein binding of memantine is low ( 45 % ) , an interaction with drugs that are highly bound to plasma proteins , such as warfarin and digoxin , is unlikely .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of carcinogenicity in a 113 - week oral study in mice at doses up to 40 mg / kg / day ( 10 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was also no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats orally dosed at up to 40 mg / kg / day for 71 weeks followed by 20 mg / kg / day ( 20 and 10 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis , respectively ) through 128 weeks .
Memantine produced no evidence of genotoxic potential when evaluated in the in vitro S . typhimurium or E . coli reverse mutation assay , an in vitro chromosomal aberration test in human lymphocytes , an in vivo cytogenetics assay for chromosome damage in rats , and the in vivo mouse micronucleus assay .
The results were equivocal in an in vitro gene mutation assay using Chinese hamster V79 cells .
No impairment of fertility or reproductive performance was seen in rats administered up to 18 mg / kg / day ( 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) orally from 14 days prior to mating through gestation and lactation in females , or for 60 days prior to mating in males .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Memantine induced neuronal lesions ( vacuolation and necrosis ) in the multipolar and pyramidal cells in cortical layers III and IV of the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial neocortices in rats , similar to those which are known to occur in rodents administered other NMDA receptor antagonists .
Lesions were seen after a single dose of memantine .
In a study in which rats were given daily oral doses of memantine for 14 days , the no - effect dose for neuronal necrosis was 6 times the maximum recommended human dose of 20 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis In acute and repeat - dose neurotoxicity studies in female rats , oral administration of memantine and donepezil in combination resulted in increased incidence , severity , and distribution of neurodegeneration compared with memantine alone .
The no - effect levels of the combination were associated with clinically relevant plasma memantine and donepezil exposures .
The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of Memantine HCl as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer ' s disease was demonstrated in 2 randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled clinical studies ( Studies 1 and 2 ) conducted in the United States that assessed both cognitive function and day to day function .
The mean age of patients participating in these two trials was 76 with a range of 50 - 93 years .
Approximately 66 % of patients were female and 91 % of patients were Caucasian .
A third study ( Study 3 ) , carried out in Latvia , enrolled patients with severe dementia , but did not assess cognitive function as a planned endpoint .
Study Outcome Measures : In each U . S . study , the effectiveness of Memantine HCl was determined using both an instrument designed to evaluate overall function through caregiver - related assessment , and an instrument that measures cognition .
Both studies showed that patients on Memantine HCl experienced significant improvement on both measures compared to placebo .
Day - to - day function was assessed in both studies using the modified Alzheimer ' s disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living inventory ( ADCS - ADL ) .
The ADCS - ADL consists of a comprehensive battery of ADL questions used to measure the functional capabilities of patients .
Each ADL item is rated from the highest level of independent performance to complete loss .
The investigator performs the inventory by interviewing a caregiver familiar with the behavior of the patient .
A subset of 19 items , including ratings of the patient ' s ability to eat , dress , bathe , telephone , travel , shop , and perform other household chores has been validated for the assessment of patients with moderate to severe dementia .
This is the modified ADCS - ADL , which has a scoring range of 0 to 54 , with the lower scores indicating greater functional impairment .
The ability of Memantine HCl to improve cognitive performance was assessed in both studies with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) , a multi - item instrument that has been validated for the evaluation of cognitive function in patients with moderate to severe dementia .
The SIB examines selected aspects of cognitive performance , including elements of attention , orientation , language , memory , visuospatial ability , construction , praxis , and social interaction .
The SIB scoring range is from 0 to 100 , with lower scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Study 1 ( Twenty - Eight - Week Study ) In a study of 28 weeks duration , 252 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by DSM - IV and NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 3 and ≤ 14 and Global Deterioration Scale Stages 5 - 6 ) were randomized to Memantine HCl or placebo .
For patients randomized to Memantine HCl , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL Figure 1 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for patients in the two treatment groups completing the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the Memantine HCl - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 3 . 4 units .
Using an analysis based on all patients and carrying their last study observation forward ( LOCF analysis ) , Memantine HCl treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 1 : Time course of the change from baseline in ADCS - ADL score for patients completing 28 weeks of treatment .
Figure 2 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the change in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Memantine HCl and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration ( a negative change in ADCS - ADL compared to baseline ) , but that the Memantine HCl group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
( In a cumulative distribution display , a curve for an effective treatment would be shifted to the left of the curve for placebo , while an ineffective or deleterious treatment would be superimposed upon or shifted to the right of the curve for placebo ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 28 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in ADCS - ADL scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB Figure 3 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 28 weeks of the study .
At 28 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the Memantine HCl - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo was 5 . 7 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Memantine HCl treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Time course of the change from baseline in SIB score for patients completing 28 weeks of treatment .
Figure 4 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of change in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Memantine HCl and placebo have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the Memantine HCl group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 28 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in SIB scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 ( Twenty - Four - Week Study ) In a study of 24 weeks duration , 404 patients with moderate to severe probable Alzheimer ' s disease ( diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA criteria , with Mini - Mental State Examination scores ≥ 5 and ≤ 14 ) who had been treated with donepezil for at least 6 months and who had been on a stable dose of donepezil for the last 3 months were randomized to Memantine HCl or placebo while still receiving donepezil .
For patients randomized to Memantine HCl , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased weekly by 5 mg / day in divided doses to a dose of 20 mg / day ( 10 mg twice a day ) .
Effects on the ADCS - ADL Figure 5 shows the time course for the change from baseline in the ADCS - ADL score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the ADCS - ADL change scores for the Memantine HCl / donepezil treated patients ( combination therapy ) compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil ( monotherapy ) was 1 . 6 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Memantine HCl / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Time course of the change from baseline in ADCS - ADL score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment .
Figure 6 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each of the treatment groups who had attained at least the measure of improvement in the ADCS - ADL shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Memantine HCl / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses and generally show deterioration , but that the Memantine HCl / donepezil group is more likely to show a smaller decline or an improvement .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 24 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in ADCS - ADL scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Effects on the SIB Figure 7 shows the time course for the change from baseline in SIB score for the two treatment groups over the 24 weeks of the study .
At 24 weeks of treatment , the mean difference in the SIB change scores for the Memantine HCl / donepezil - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo / donepezil was 3 . 3 units .
Using an LOCF analysis , Memantine HCl / donepezil treatment was statistically significantly superior to placebo / donepezil .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 7 : Time course of the change from baseline in SIB score for patients completing 24 weeks of treatment .
Figure 8 shows the cumulative percentages of patients from each treatment group who had attained at least the measure of improvement in SIB score shown on the X axis .
The curves show that both patients assigned to Memantine HCl / donepezil and placebo / donepezil have a wide range of responses , but that the Memantine HCl / donepezil group is more likely to show an improvement or a smaller decline .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 : Cumulative percentage of patients completing 24 weeks of double - blind treatment with specified changes from baseline in SIB scores .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 3 ( Twelve - Week Study ) In a double - blind study of 12 weeks duration , conducted in nursing homes in Latvia , 166 patients with dementia according to DSM - III - R , a Mini - Mental State Examination score of < 10 , and Global Deterioration Scale staging of 5 to 7 were randomized to either Memantine HCl or placebo .
For patients randomized to Memantine HCl , treatment was initiated at 5 mg once daily and increased to 10 mg once daily after 1 week .
The primary efficacy measures were the care dependency subscale of the Behavioral Rating Scale for Geriatric Patients ( BGP ) , a measure of day - to - day function , and a Clinical Global Impression of Change ( CGI - C ) , a measure of overall clinical effect .
No valid measure of cognitive function was used in this study .
A statistically significant treatment difference at 12 weeks that favored Memantine HCl over placebo was seen on both primary efficacy measures .
Because the patients entered were a mixture of Alzheimer ' s disease and vascular dementia , an attempt was made to distinguish the two groups and all patients were later designated as having either vascular dementia or Alzheimer ' s disease , based on their scores on the Hachinski Ischemic Scale at study entry .
Only about 50 % of the patients had computerized tomography of the brain .
For the subset designated as having Alzheimer ' s disease , a statistically significant treatment effect favoring Memantine HCl over placebo at 12 weeks was seen on both the BGP and CGI - C .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 5 mg Tablet : Tan , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets with “ 5 ” debossed on one side and FL on the other .
Bottle of 60 NDC # 0591 - 3870 - 60 10 x 10 Unit Dose NDC # 0591 - 3870 - 44 10 mg Tablet : Gray , capsule - shaped , film - coated tablets with “ 10 ” debossed on one side and FL on the other .
Bottle of 60 NDC # 0591 - 3875 - 60 10 x 10 Unit Dose NDC # 0591 - 3875 - 44 Titration Pack : NDC # 0591 - 3900 - 87 Blister package containing 49 tablets ( 28 x 5 mg and 21 x 10 mg tablets ) .
Oral Solution : 2 mg / mL Oral Solution ( 10 mg = 5 mL ) 12 fl .
oz .
( 360 mL ) bottle NDC # 0591 - 3011 - 07 Store Memantine HCl tablets and oral solution at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
To assure safe and effective use of Memantine HCl , the following information and instructions provided in the patient information section should be discussed with patients and caregivers .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed to follow the dose titration schedule provided by their physician or healthcare professional for Memantine HCl .
They should be warned not to use any tablets of Memantine HCl that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
If a patient misses a single dose of Memantine HCl , that patient should not double up on the next dose .
The next dose should be taken as scheduled .
If a patient fails to take Memantine HCl for several days , dosing should not be resumed without consulting that patient ' s healthcare professional .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed on how to use the Memantine HCl Oral Solution dosing device .
They should be made aware of the patient instruction sheet that is enclosed with the product .
Patients / caregivers should be instructed to address any questions on the usage of the solution to their physician or pharmacist .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Ltd Clonshaugh Business and Technology Park Clonshaugh , Dublin 17 , Ireland Licensed from Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH © 2005 - 2015 Actavis Patient Information Memantine hydrochloride Tablets and Oral Solution Read this Patient Information that comes with Memantine HCl before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is Memantine HCl ?
Memantine HCl is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of moderate to severe dementia in people with Alzheimer ' s disease .
Memantine HCl belongs to a class of medicines called NMDA ( N - methyl - D - aspartate ) inhibitors .
It is not known if Memantine HCl is safe and effective in children .
Who should not take Memantine HCl ?
Do not take Memantine HCl if you are allergic to memantine or any of the ingredients in Memantine HCl .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Memantine HCl .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Memantine HCl ?
Before you take Memantine HCl , tell your doctor if you : • have or have had seizures • have or have had problems passing urine • have or have had bladder or kidney problems • have liver problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if Memantine HCl will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if Memantine HCl passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Memantine HCl or breastfeed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking Memantine HCl with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Taking Memantine HCl with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • other NMDA antagonists such as amantadine , ketamine , and dextromethorphan • medicines that make your urine alkaline such as carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and sodium bicarbonate Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Memantine HCl ?
• See the step - by - step instructions for taking Memantine HCl Oral Solution at the end of this Patient Information .
• Your doctor will tell you how much Memantine HCl to take and when to take it .
• Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Memantine HCl can be taken with food or without food .
• Do not use any tablets of Memantine HCl that are damaged or show signs of tampering .
• If you forget to take one dose of Memantine HCl , do not double up on the next dose .
You should take only the next dose as scheduled .
• If you have forgotten to take Memantine HCl for several days , you should not take the next dose until you talk to your doctor .
• If you take too much Memantine HCl , call your doctor or poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 right away , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of Memantine HCl ?
Memantine HCl may cause side effects , including : The most common side effects of Memantine HCl include : • dizziness • headache • confusion • constipation These are not all the possible side effects of Memantine HCl .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Memantine HCl ?
• Store Memantine HCl at room temperature between 59 ° F to 77 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
What are the ingredients in Memantine HCl ?
Memantine HCl tablets : Active ingredients : memantine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : microcrystalline cellulose / colloidal silicon dioxide , talc , croscarmellose sodium , and magnesium stearate Inactive ingredients of tablet film coating : hypromellose , titanium dioxide , polyethylene glycol 400 , FD & C yellow # 6 and FD & C blue # 2 ( 5 mg tablets ) , and hypromellose , titanium dioxide , macrogol / polyethylene glycol 400 and iron oxide black ( 10 mg tablets ) Memantine HCl oral solution : Active ingredients : memantine hydrochloride Inactive ingredients : sorbitol solution ( 70 % ) , methyl paraben , propylparaben , propylene glycol , glycerin , natural peppermint flavor # 104 , citric acid , sodium citrate , and purified water Keep Memantine HCl and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Memantine HCl .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take Memantine HCl for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Memantine HCl to other people , even if they have the same condition .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Memantine HCl .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Memantine HCl that was written for healthcare professionals .
For more information about Memantine HCl call Actavis at 1 - 800 - 272 - 5525 .
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Memantine hydrochloride Oral Solution Directions for Using your Memantine HCl Oral Solution Read these instructions before taking Memantine HCl Oral Solution and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Preparing your dose of Memantine HCl Oral Solution .
You will need the following supplies : • Memantine HCl Oral Solution bottle with Child - resistant cap • Green syringe adaptor cap with lid • Oral dosing syringe • Plastic tube ( in plastic bag ) • Prescribing Information [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Remove the oral dosing syringe , the green syringe adaptor cap , and remove the plastic tube from its protective plastic bag .
Attach the tube to the green syringe adaptor cap if it is not already attached .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
The bottle comes with a child - resistant cap .
To remove the cap , you should push down on the cap and at the same time ; turn the cap counter - clockwise ( to the left ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Carefully remove the seal from the bottle and throw away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Insert the green syringe adaptor cap , with the attached tube , all the way into the bottle and tightly screw the cap onto the bottle by turning the cap clockwise ( to the right ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 5 .
The green syringe adaptor cap has an opening with an attached lid .
The adaptor is used to withdraw the correct dose of medicine from the bottle with the syringe .
The attached adaptor lid should be closed in between doses .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 .
Keep the bottle upright on a table .
Open the syringe adaptor lid and insert the tip of syringe into the syringe adaptor opening .
• Make sure the syringe is pushed firmly into the adaptor opening .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 7 .
While holding the syringe in place , gently pull the plunger of the syringe until you get to the correct mL ( amount ) of medicine you need .
• Do not worry about a few tiny bubbles .
This will not affect your dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 8 .
Remove the syringe from the syringe adaptor cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 9 .
Remove the syringe from the bottle and slowly squirt the Memantine HCl Oral Solution into the corner of you or the patient ' s mouth .
Do not mix Memantine HCl Oral Solution with any other liquid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 .
After use , reseal the bottle by snapping the attached syringe adaptor lid closed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 11 .
Rinse the empty syringe by inserting the open end of the syringe into a glass of water , pulling the plunger out to draw in water , and pushing the plunger in to remove the water .
Repeat several times .
Allow the syringe to air dry .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 .
Store the bottle upright .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed by : Actavis Pharma , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 USA Manufactured by : Forest Laboratories Ireland Ltd Clonshaugh Business and Technology Park Clonshaugh , Dublin 17 , Ireland Licensed from Merz Pharmaceuticals GmbH © 2005 - 2015 Actavis Revised April 2015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repackaging Information Please reference the How Supplied section listed above for a description of individual tablets .
This drug product has been received by Aphena Pharma - TN in a manufacturer or distributor packaged configuration and repackaged in full compliance with all applicable cGMP regulations .
The package configurations available from Aphena are listed below : Count 10 mg 3000 71610 - 011 - 18 Store between 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) .
See USP Controlled Room Temperature .
Dispense in a tight light - resistant container as defined by USP .
Keep this and all drugs out of the reach of children .
Repackaged by : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cookeville , TN 38506 20171130 JH [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg NDC 71610 - 011 - Memantine HCl 10 mg - Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
