1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder ( OAB ) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder ( OAB ) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and urinary frequency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is one 60 mg capsule daily in the morning .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be dosed with water on an empty stomach , at least one hour before a meal .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• The recommended dosage of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is one 60 mg capsule daily in the morning .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be dosed with water on an empty stomach , at least one hour before a meal .
( 2 ) • Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are supplied as 60 mg capsules ( white opaque body and orange opaque cap , printed with “ 027 ” and “ G60 ” ) .
• 60 mg capsules ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are contraindicated in patients with : • urinary retention • gastric retention • uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma • known hypersensitivity to the drug or its ingredients .
Angioedema , rash and anaphylactic reaction have been reported .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are contraindicated in • Patients with urinary retention , gastric retention , or uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma , and in patients who are at risk for these conditions ( 4 ) • Patients with known hypersensitivity ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction or gastrointestinal obstructive disorders due to risk of urinary or gastric retention .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 3 ) • Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue and / or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride .
( 5 . 2 ) • In patients with narrow angle glaucoma , Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be used only with careful monitoring .
( 5 . 4 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules affects them .
( 5 . 5 ) • Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) .
( 5 . 6 ) • Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules administration .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Risk of Urinary Retention Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [ see contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema Angioedema of the face , lips , tongue and / or larynx has been reported with trospium chloride .
In one case , angioedema occurred after the first dose of trospium chloride .
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life threatening .
If involvement of the tongue , hypopharynx , or larynx occurs , trospium chloride should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided .
5 . 3 Decreased Gastrointestinal Motility Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be administered with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , like other antimuscarinic agents , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis , intestinal atony and myasthenia gravis .
5 . 4 Controlled Narrow - angle Glaucoma In patients being treated for narrow - angle glaucoma , Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should only be used if the potential benefits outweigh the risks , and in that circumstance only with careful monitoring [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 5 Central Nervous System Effects Trospium Chloride Extended - Release and Trospium Chloride Immediate Release Capsules are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including dizziness , confusion , hallucinations and somnolence .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules affects them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , dose reduction or drug discontinuation should be considered .
5 . 6 Patients with Severe Renal Impairment Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 7 Alcohol Interaction Alcohol should not be consumed within 2 hours of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules administration .
In addition , patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 1 % ) with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are dry mouth ( 10 . 7 % ) and constipation ( 8 . 5 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc . , at 1 - 877 - 770 - 3183 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in 578 patients for 12 weeks in two Phase 3 double - blind , placebo controlled trials ( n = 1 , 165 ) .
These studies included overactive bladder patients of ages 21 to 90 years , of which 86 % were female and 85 % were Caucasian .
Patients received 60 mg daily doses of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Patients in these studies were eligible to continue treatment with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg for up to one year .
From both these controlled trials combined , 769 and 238 patients received treatment with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules for at least 24 and 52 weeks , respectively .
There were 157 ( 27 . 2 % ) Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules patients and 98 ( 16 . 7 % ) placebo patients who experienced one or more double - blind treatment - emergent adverse events ( TEAEs ) that were assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to study medication .
The most common TEAEs were dry mouth and constipation which , when reported , commonly occurred early in treatment ( often within the first week ) .
In the two Phase 3 studies , constipation , dry mouth , and urinary retention led to discontinuation in 1 % , 0 . 7 % , and 0 . 5 % of patients treated with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg daily , respectively .
In the placebo group , there were no discontinuations due to dry mouth or urinary retention and one due to constipation .
The incidence of serious adverse events was similar among patients receiving Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules and patients receiving placebo .
No treatment - emergent serious adverse events in either treatment group were judged by the investigators as being possibly related to the study medication .
Table 1 lists those treatment emergent adverse events from the trials that were assessed by the investigator as possibly related to study medication , reported in at least 1 % of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules patients , and were more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules group than for placebo .
Table 1 : Incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events reported in at least 1 % of patients judged by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules group than for placebo MedDRA Preferred term Number of patients ( % ) Placebo N = 587 Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules N = 578 Dry mouth 22 ( 3 . 7 ) 62 ( 10 . 7 ) Constipation 9 ( 1 . 5 ) 49 ( 8 . 5 ) Dry eye 1 ( 0 . 2 ) 9 ( 1 . 6 ) Flatulence 3 ( 0 . 5 ) 9 ( 1 . 6 ) Nausea 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 8 ( 1 . 4 ) Abdominal pain 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 8 ( 1 . 4 ) Dyspepsia 4 ( 0 . 7 ) 7 ( 1 . 2 ) Urinary tract infection 5 ( 0 . 9 ) 7 ( 1 . 2 ) Constipation aggravated 3 ( 0 . 5 ) 7 ( 1 . 2 ) Abdominal distension 2 ( 0 . 3 ) 6 ( 1 ) Nasal dryness 0 ( 0 ) 6 ( 1 ) Additional adverse events reported in less than 1 % of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules treated patients and more common for Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules than placebo , judged by the investigator at least possibly related to treatment were : vision blurred , feces hard , back pain , somnolence , urinary retention , and dry skin .
Table 2 lists all treatment - emergent adverse events for the trials reported in at least 2 % of all Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules patients and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules group than for placebo without regard to the investigator ’ s judgment on drug relatedness .
Table 2 : Incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events reported in at least 2 % of patients regardless of reported relationship to treatment and more common for the Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules group than for placebo MedDRA Preferred term Number of patients ( % ) Placebo N = 587 Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules N = 578 Dry mouth 22 ( 3 . 7 ) 64 ( 11 . 1 ) Constipation 10 ( 1 . 7 ) 52 ( 9 ) Urinary tract infection 29 ( 4 . 9 ) 42 ( 7 . 3 ) Nasopharyngitis 10 ( 1 . 7 ) 17 ( 2 . 9 ) Influenza 9 ( 1 . 5 ) 13 ( 2 . 2 ) Additional adverse events reported in less than 2 % of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules treated patients and twice as frequent for Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules compared to placebo , regardless of reported relationship to treatment were : tachycardia , dry eyes , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , abdominal distension , constipation aggravated , nasal dryness , and rash .
In the open - label treatment phase , the most common TEAEs reported in the 769 patients with at least 6 months exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules were : constipation , and dry mouth .
Urinary tract infection and rash was also reported in several patients , including one of each judged by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment .
Several adverse events were reported as severe in the open - label treatment phase , including one urinary tract infection , two urinary retention events , and one aggravated constipation .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of trospium chloride .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal – gastritis ; Cardiovascular – palpitations , supraventricular tachycardia , chest pain , syncope , “ hypertensive crisis ” ; Immunological – Stevens - Johnson syndrome , anaphylactic reaction , angioedema ; Nervous System – dizziness , confusion , vision abnormal , hallucinations , somnolence , and delirium ; Musculoskeletal – rhabdomyolysis ; General – rash .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Trospium is metabolized by ester hydrolysis and excreted by the kidneys through a combination of tubular secretion and glomerular filtration .
Based on in vitro data , no clinically relevant metabolic drug - drug interactions are anticipated with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
However , some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules by competing for renal tubular secretion .
The concomitant use of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules with other antimuscarinic agents that produce dry mouth , constipation , and other anticholinergic effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
• Some drugs which are actively secreted by the kidney may interact with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules by competing for renal tubular secretion .
( 7 ) • Concomitant use with digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug .
( 7 . 1 ) • Exposure to trospium on average was comparable in the presence of and without antacid , however , some individuals demonstrated increases or decreases in trospium exposure in the presence of antacid .
The clinical relevance of these findings is not known .
( 7 . 2 ) • Concomitant use with metformin immediate release tablets reduced exposure and peak concentration of trospium .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Digoxin Concomitant use of trospium chloride 20 mg twice daily and digoxin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 2 Antacid While the systemic exposure of trospium on average was comparable with and without antacid containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate , 5 out of 11 individuals in a drug interaction study demonstrated either an increase or decrease in trospium exposure , in presence of antacid .
The clinical relevance of these findings is not known [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
7 . 3 Metformin Co - administration of 500 mg metformin immediate release tablets twice daily reduced the steady - state systemic exposure of trospium by approximately 29 % for mean AUC 0 - 24 and by 34 % for mean C max .
The effect of a decrease in trospium exposure on the efficacy of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is unknown .
The steady - state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without 60 mg Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules once daily under fasted condition .
The effect of metformin at higher doses on trospium PK is unknown [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • The safety and effectiveness of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in pediatric patients have not been established .
( 8 . 4 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in pregnant women .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk to the patient and fetus .
Women who become pregnant during Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules treatment are encouraged to contact their physician .
Trospium chloride was not teratogenic at statistically significant levels in rats or rabbits administered doses up to 200 mg / kg / day .
This corresponds to systemic exposures up to approximately 16 and 32 times , respectively ( based on AUC ) , the clinical exposure at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg .
However , in rabbits , one fetus in each of the three treated dose groups ( 1 , 1 , and 32 times the MRHD ) demonstrated multiple malformations , including umbilical hernia and skeletal malformations .
A no effect level for maternal and fetal toxicity was observed at levels approximately equivalent to the clinical exposure at the MRHD ( 20 mg / kg / day in rats and rabbits ) .
No developmental toxicity was observed in the offspring of female rats exposed pre - and post - natally to up to 200 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effect of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules on labor and delivery is unknown .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Trospium chloride ( 2 mg / kg orally and 50 mcg / kg intravenously ) was excreted , to a limited extent ( less than 1 % ) , into the milk of lactating rats ( primarily as parent compound ) .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted into human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted into human milk , Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules should be used during lactation only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of 1 , 165 patients in Phase 3 clinical studies of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , 37 % ( n = 428 ) were ages 65 and over , while 12 % ( n = 143 ) were ages 75 and over .
No overall differences in effectiveness were observed between those subjects aged 65 and over and younger subjects .
In Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules subjects ages 65 and over compared to younger subjects , the following adverse reactions were reported at a higher incidence : dry mouth , constipation , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , urinary tract infection and urinary retention .
In subjects ages 75 and over , three reported a fall and in one of them a relationship to the event could not be excluded .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment Severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) may significantly alter the disposition of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
In a study of immediate - release trospium chloride , 4 . 2 - fold and 1 . 8 - fold increases in mean AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) and C max , respectively , were detected in patients with severe renal impairment .
Use of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of trospium chloride have not been studied in patients with creatinine clearance ranging from 30 to 80 mL / min .
Trospium is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of adverse reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment There is no information regarding the effect of severe hepatic impairment on exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
In a study of patients with mild and with moderate hepatic impairment , given 40 mg of immediate - release trospium chloride , mean C max increased 12 % and 63 % , respectively , and mean AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) decreased 5 % and 15 % , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Caution is advised , however , when administering Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules to patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage with antimuscarinic agents , including Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , can result in severe antimuscarinic effects .
Supportive treatment should be provided according to symptoms .
In the event of overdosage , ECG monitoring is recommended .
11 DESCRIPTION Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are an extended - release formulation of trospium chloride , a quaternary ammonium compound with the chemical name of Spiro [ 8 - azoniabicyclo [ 3 . 2 . 1 ] octane - 8 , 1 ' - pyrrolidinium ] , 3 - [ ( hydroxydiphenylacetyl ) oxy ] - , chloride , ( 1α , 3β , 5α ) .
The empirical formula of trospium chloride is C 25 H 30 ClNO 3 and its molecular weight is 428 .
The structural formula of trospium chloride is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Trospium chloride is a fine , colorless to slightly yellow , crystalline solid .
The compound ’ s solubility in water is approximately 1 g / 2 mL .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules contain 60 mg of trospium chloride , a muscarinic antagonist , for oral administration .
Each capsule also contains the following inactive ingredients : corn starch , ethylcellulose , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , gelatin , hypromellose , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium lauryl sulfate , sucrose , talc , titanium dioxide , triacetin and triethyl citrate .
In addition , capsule printing ink contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Trospium chloride is an antispasmodic , antimuscarinic agent .
Trospium chloride antagonizes the effect of acetylcholine on muscarinic receptors in cholinergically innervated organs including the bladder .
Its parasympatholytic action reduces the tonus of smooth muscle in the bladder .
In vitro receptor binding studies have demonstrated the selectivity of trospium chloride for muscarinic over nicotinic receptors , and similar affinity for the M 2 and M 3 muscarinic receptor subtypes .
M 2 and M 3 receptors are found in the bladder and may play a role in the pathogenesis of overactive bladder .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Placebo - controlled studies assessing the impact on urodynamic variables of an immediate - release formulation of trospium chloride were conducted in patients with conditions characterized by involuntary detrusor contractions .
The results demonstrated that trospium chloride increases maximum cystometric bladder capacity and volume at first detrusor contraction .
Electrophysiology The effect of 20 mg twice daily and up to 100 mg twice daily of an immediate - release formulation of trospium chloride on QT interval was evaluated in a single - blind , randomized , placebo and active ( moxifloxacin 400 mg daily ) controlled , 5 - day parallel trial in 170 male and female healthy volunteer subjects aged 18 to 45 years .
The QT interval was measured over a 24 - hour period at steady state .
Trospium chloride was not associated with an increase in individual corrected ( QTcI ) or Fridericia corrected ( QTcF ) QT interval at any time during steady state measurement , while moxifloxacin was associated with a 6 . 4 msec increase in QTcF .
In this study , asymptomatic , non - specific T - wave inversions were observed more often in subjects receiving trospium chloride than in subjects receiving moxifloxacin or placebo following five days of treatment .
The clinical significance of T - wave inversion in this study is unknown .
This finding was not observed during routine safety monitoring in overactive bladder patients from 2 placebo - controlled clinical trials in 591 patients treated with 20 mg twice daily of immediate - release trospium chloride , nor was it observed in 2 placebo - controlled clinical trials in 578 patients treated with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Also in this study , the immediate - release formulation of trospium chloride was associated with an increase in heart rate that correlated with increasing plasma concentration , with a mean elevation in heart rate compared to placebo of 9 beats per minute for the 20 mg dose and of 18 beats per minute for the 100 mg dose .
In the two Phase 3 Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules trials the mean increase in heart rate compared to placebo was approximately 3 beats per minute in both studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Mean absolute bioavailability of a 20 mg immediate - release dose is 9 . 6 % ( range 4 to 16 . 1 % ) .
Following a single 60 mg dose of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , peak plasma concentration ( C max ) of 2 ng / mL occurred 5 hours post dose .
By contrast , following a single 20 mg dose of an immediate - release formulation of trospium chloride , C max was 2 . 7 ng / mL .
Effect of Food : Administration of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules immediately after a high ( 50 % ) fat - content meal reduced the oral bioavailability of trospium chloride by 35 % for AUC ( 0 - Tlast ) and by 60 % for Cmax .
Other pharmacokinetic parameters such as T max and t 1 / 2 were unchanged in the presence of food .
A summary of mean ( ± standard deviation ) pharmacokinetic parameters for a single dose of 60 mg Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is provided in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean ( ± SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameter Estimates for a Single 60 mg Oral Dose of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in Healthy Volunteers Treatment AUC ( 0 - 24 ) ( ng ● h / mL ) C max ( ng / mL ) T maxa ( h ) t 1 / 2 b ( h ) Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg 18 ± 13 . 4 2 ± 1 . 5 5 ( 3 to 7 . 5 ) 36 ± 22 aT max expressed as median ( range ) .
bt 1 / 2 max was determined following multiple ( 10 ) doses .
The mean sample concentration - time ( + standard deviation ) profile for Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is shown in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Mean ( + SD ) Concentration - Time Profile for a Single 60 mg Oral Dose of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in Healthy Volunteers [ MULTIMEDIA ] Administration of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules immediately after a high ( 50 % ) fat - content meal reduced the oral bioavailability of trospium chloride by 35 % for AUC ( 0 - Tlast ) and by 60 % for Cmax .
Other pharmacokinetic parameters such as Tmax and t 1 / 2 were unchanged in the presence of food .
Coadministration with antacid had inconsistent effects on the oral bioavailability of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Distribution : Protein binding ranged from 50 to 85 % , depending upon the assessment method used , when a range of concentration levels of trospium chloride ( 0 . 5 to 50 mcg / L ) were incubated in vitro with human serum .
The ratio of 3 H - trospium chloride in plasma to whole blood was 1 . 6 : 1 .
This ratio indicates that the majority of 3 H - trospium chloride is distributed in plasma .
Trospium chloride is widely distributed , with an apparent volume of distribution > 600 L . Metabolism : The metabolic pathway of trospium in humans has not been fully defined .
Of the dose absorbed following oral administration , metabolites account for approximately 40 % of the excreted dose .
The major metabolic pathway of trospium is hypothesized as ester hydrolysis with subsequent conjugation of benzylic acid to form azoniaspironortropanol with glucuronic acid .
CYP P450 does not contribute significantly to the elimination of trospium .
Data taken from in vitro studies of human liver microsomes , investigating the inhibitory effect of trospium on seven CYP P450 isoenzyme substrates ( CYP1A2 , 2A6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3A4 ) , suggest a lack of inhibition at clinically relevant concentrations .
Excretion : The plasma half - life for trospium following oral administration of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is approximately 35 hours .
After oral administration of an immediate - release formulation of 14 C - labeled trospium chloride , a majority of the dose ( 85 . 2 % ) was recovered in feces and a smaller amount ( 5 . 8 % of the dose ) was recovered in urine .
Of the radioactivity excreted into the urine , 60 % was unchanged trospium .
The mean renal clearance for trospium ( 29 . 07 L / hour ) is 4 - fold higher than average glomerular filtration rate , indicating that active tubular secretion is a major route of elimination .
There may be competition for elimination with other compounds that are also renally eliminated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Digoxin : Concomitant use of 20 mg Trospium Chloride Immediate Release twice daily at steady state and a single dose of 0 . 5 mg digoxin in a crossover study with 40 male and female subjects did not affect the pharmacokinetics of either drug .
Antacid : A drug interaction study was conducted to evaluate the effect of an antacid containing aluminum hydroxide and magnesium carbonate on the pharmacokinetics of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ( n = 11 ) .
While the systemic exposure of trospium on average was comparable with and without antacid , 5 individuals demonstrated either an increase or decrease in trospium exposure , in presence of antacid .
Metformin : A drug interaction study was conducted in which Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg once daily was co - administered with Glucophage ® ( metformin hydrochloride ) 500 mg twice daily under steady - state conditions in 44 healthy subjects .
Co - administration of 500 mg metformin immediate release tablets twice daily reduced the steady - state systemic exposure of trospium by approximately 29 % for mean AUC0 - 24 and by 34 % for mean Cmax .
The effect of decrease in trospium exposure on the efficacy of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is unknown .
The steady - state pharmacokinetics of metformin were comparable when administered with or without 60 mg Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules once daily under fasted condition .
The effect of metformin at higher doses on trospium PK is unknown .
Specific Populations Age : In a phase 3 clinical trial of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , the observed plasma trospium concentrations were similar in older ( greater than or equal to 65 years ) and younger ( less than 65 years ) OAB patients .
Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules were not evaluated in pediatric patients .
Race : Pharmacokinetic differences due to race have not been studied .
Gender : Gender differences in pharmacokinetics of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules have not been formally assessed .
Data from healthy subjects suggests lower exposure in males compared to females .
Hepatic Impairment : There is no information regarding the effect of severe hepatic impairment on exposure to Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
In a study of patients with mild ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) and with moderate ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 8 ) hepatic impairment , given 40 mg of immediate - release trospium chloride , mean C max increased 12 % and 63 % respectively , and mean AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) decreased 5 % and 15 % , respectively , compared to healthy subjects .
Renal Impairment : The pharmacokinetics of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules in patients with severe renal impairment has not been evaluated .
In a study of an immediate - release formulation of trospium chloride , 4 . 2 - fold and 1 . 8 - fold increases in mean AUC ( 0 - ∞ ) and C max , respectively , were detected in patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance less than 30 mL / minute ) , compared with healthy subjects , along with the appearance of an additional elimination phase with a long half - life ( ~ 33 hours vs . 18 hours ) .
Use of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
The pharmacokinetics of trospium chloride have not been studied in people with creatinine clearance ranging from 30 to 80 mL / min .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis : Carcinogenicity studies with trospium chloride were conducted in mice and rats for 78 weeks and 104 weeks , respectively , at maximally tolerated doses .
No evidence of a carcinogenic effect was found in either mice or rats administered up to 200 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 and 16 times , respectively ( based on AUC ) , the expected clinical exposure levels at the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 60 mg .
Mutagenesis : Trospium chloride was not mutagenic nor genotoxic in tests in vitro in bacteria ( Ames test ) and mammalian cells ( L5178Y mouse lymphoma and CHO cells ) or in vivo in the mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility : No evidence of impaired fertility was observed in rats administered doses up to 200 mg / kg / day ( about 16 times the expected clinical exposure at the MRHD , based on AUC ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules were evaluated for the treatment of patients with overactive bladder who had symptoms of urinary frequency , urgency and urge urinary incontinence in two 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
For both studies , entry criteria required the presence of urge incontinence ( predominance of urge ) , at least one incontinence episode per day , and 10 or more micturitions ( voids ) per day ( assessed by 3 - day urinary diary ) .
Medical history and data from the baseline urinary diary confirmed the diagnosis .
Approximately 88 % of the patients enrolled completed the 12 - week studies .
The mean age was 60 years , and the majority of patients were female ( 84 % ) and Caucasian ( 86 % ) .
The co - primary endpoints in the trials were the mean change from baseline to Week 12 in number of voids / 24 hours ( reductions in urinary frequency ) and the mean change from baseline to Week 12 in number of incontinence episodes / 24 hours .
Secondary endpoints included mean change from baseline to Week 12 in volume per void .
Study 1 included 592 patients in both Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg and placebo groups .
As illustrated in Table 4 and Figures 2 and 3 , Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules demonstrated statistically significantly ( p < 0 . 01 ) greater reductions in the urinary frequency and incontinence episodes , and increases in void volume when compared to placebo starting at Week 1 and maintained through Weeks 4 and 12 .
Table 4 : Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline in Urinary Frequency , Urge Incontinence Episodes and Void Volume in Study 1 Efficacy Endpoint a Week Placebo Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules P - Value Urinary frequency / 24 hours ( N = 300 ) ( N = 292 ) Mean Baseline 0 12 . 7 ( 0 . 2 ) 12 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 - 1 . 2 ( 0 . 1 ) - 1 . 7 ( 0 . 1 ) 0 . 0092 4 - 1 . 6 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 4 ( 0 . 2 ) < 0 . 0001 12 - 2 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) < 0 . 0001 Urge incontinence episodes / week ( N = 300 ) ( N = 292 ) Mean Baseline 0 29 ( 1 . 3 ) 28 . 8 ( 1 . 3 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 - 8 . 7 ( 1 ) - 13 ( 0 . 9 ) 0 . 0003 4 - 12 . 2 ( 1 . 1 ) - 16 . 5 ( 1 . 2 ) 0 . 0054 12 - 13 . 5 ( 1 . 1 ) - 17 . 3 ( 1 . 2 ) 0 . 0024 Urinary volume / void ( mL ) ( N = 300 ) ( N = 290 ) Mean Baseline 0 155 . 9 ( 3 ) 151 ( 2 . 9 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 12 . 1 ( 2 . 1 ) 21 . 6 ( 2 . 8 ) 0 . 0036 4 17 . 2 ( 2 . 5 ) 30 ( 3 . 1 ) 0 . 0007 12 18 . 9 ( 2 . 8 ) 29 . 8 ( 3 . 2 ) 0 . 0039 atreatment differences assessed by rank ANOVA for intent - to - treat population , last observation carried forward ( ITT : LOCF ) data set Figure 2 : Mean Change from Baseline in Urinary Frequency / 24 hours by Visit : Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 3 : Mean Change from Baseline in Incontinence Episodes / Week by Visit : Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Study 2 included 543 patients in both Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 60 mg and placebo groups and was identical in design to Study 1 .
As illustrated in Table 5 and Figures 4 and 5 , Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules demonstrated statistically significantly ( p < 0 . 01 ) greater reductions in urinary frequency and incontinence episodes , and increases in void volume when compared to placebo at Weeks 4 and 12 .
However , at Week 1 , statistically significant reductions were seen in urinary incontinence episodes and volume void only .
Table 5 : Mean ( SE ) Change from Baseline in Urinary Frequency , Urge Incontinence Episodes and Void Volume in Study 2 Efficacy Endpointa Week Placebo Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules P - Value Urinary Frequency / 24 hours ( N = 276 ) ( N = 267 ) Mean Baseline 0 12 . 9 ( 0 . 2 ) 12 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 - 1 . 2 ( 0 . 2 ) - 1 . 4 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 0759 4 - 1 . 7 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 3 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 0047 12 - 1 . 8 ( 0 . 2 ) - 2 . 5 ( 0 . 2 ) 0 . 0009 Urge incontinence episodes / week ( N = 276 ) ( N = 267 ) Mean Baseline 0 28 . 3 ( 1 . 4 ) 28 . 2 ( 1 . 2 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 - 7 . 3 ( 1 ) - 11 . 9 ( 1 ) < 0 . 0001 4 - 10 . 6 ( 1 . 1 ) - 15 . 8 ( 1 . 1 ) < 0 . 0001 12 - 11 . 3 ( 1 . 2 ) - 16 . 4 ( 1 . 3 ) < 0 . 0001 Urinary volume / void ( mL ) ( N = 276 ) ( N = 266 ) Mean Baseline 0 151 . 8 ( 2 . 8 ) 149 . 6 ( 2 . 9 ) Mean Change from Baseline 1 11 . 9 ( 2 . 5 ) 24 . 1 ( 2 . 4 ) < 0 . 0001 4 19 . 6 ( 3 . 1 ) 29 . 3 ( 3 ) 0 . 0020 12 17 . 8 ( 3 . 3 ) 31 . 5 ( 3 . 4 ) 0 . 0014 atreatment differences assessed by rank ANOVA for intent - to - treat population , last observation carried forward ( ITT : LOCF ) data set Figure 4 : Mean Change from Baseline in Urinary Frequency / 24 hours by Visit : Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 5 : Mean Change from Baseline in Incontinence Episodes / Week by Visit : Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are supplied as 60 mg capsules ( white opaque body and orange opaque cap , printed with “ 027 ” and “ G60 ” ) .
60 mg capsule , 30 count , HDPE bottle : NDC 35573 - 446 - 30 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION " See FDA - Approved Patient labeling ( Patient Information ) " 17 . 1 Angioedema Patients should be informed that Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules may produce angioedema which could result in life - threatening airway obstruction .
Patients should be advised to promptly discontinue Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules therapy and seek immediate medical attention if they experience edema of the tongue , edema of the laryngopharynx , or difficulty breathing .
17 . 2 When Not to Use Prior to treatment , patients should fully understand the risks and benefits of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
In particular , patients should be informed not to take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules if they : • have urinary retention ; • gastric retention ; • uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ; • are allergic to any component of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules 17 . 3 Administration Patients should be instructed regarding the recommended dosing and administration of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules : • Take one Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsule daily in the morning with water .
• Take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules on an empty stomach or at least 1 hour before a meal .
• Use of alcoholic beverages within 2 hours of dosing with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules is not recommended .
17 . 4 Adverse Reactions Patients should be informed that the most common side effects with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are dry mouth and constipation and that other less common side effects include trouble emptying the bladder , blurred vision , and heat prostration .
Because anticholinergics , such as Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , may produce dizziness or blurred vision , patients should be advised to exercise caution in decisions to engage in potentially dangerous activities until the drug ’ s effects have been determined .
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents .
* Listed trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured For : Burel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Brandon , MS 39042 Manufactured By : Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Chantilly , VA 20151 Rev . 02 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Patient Information Trospium ( TROSE - pee - um ) Chloride Extended - Release Capsules Read the Patient Information that comes with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What are Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are a prescription medicine used to treat adults with overactive bladder who have the following symptoms : • a strong need to urinate right away ; • leaking or wetting accidents due to a strong need to urinate right away ; • a need to urinate often .
Who should not take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Do not take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules if you : • have trouble emptying your bladder ; • have delayed or slow emptying of your stomach ; • have an eye problem called “ uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ” ; • are allergic to Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules or any of its ingredients .
see the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules have not been studied in children under the age of 18 years .
What should I tell my doctor before starting Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions including if you : • have any stomach or intestinal problems or problems with constipation ; • have trouble emptying your bladder or have a weak urine stream ; • have an eye problem called narrow - angle glaucoma ; • have kidney problems ; • have liver problems ; • are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if trospium passes into breast milk and if it can harm your baby .
You should talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you are taking Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules and certain other medicines can interact and make some side effects worse .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules can affect how other medicines are handled by the body .
Know all the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them with you to show your doctor and pharmacist each time you get a new medicine .
How should I take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules exactly as prescribed .
• Take one Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsule daily in the morning with water .
• Take Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules on an empty stomach or at least 1 hour before a meal .
• Do not take alcohol within 2 hours of taking Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
• If you take too much Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules , call your local Poison Control Center or go to an emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules may cause allergic reactions that may be serious .
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction may include swelling of the face , lips , throat or tongue .
If you experience these symptoms , you should stop taking Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules and get emergency medical help right away .
The most common side effects with Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are : • dry mouth ; • constipation .
Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules may cause other less common side effects , including : • trouble emptying the bladder ; • blurred vision and drowsiness .
Do not drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules affect you .
• heat prostration .
Due to decreased sweating , heat prostration can occur when drugs such as Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules are used in a hot environment .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effects that bother you or that do not go away .
These are not all possible side effects of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
For more information , ask your doctor , healthcare professional or pharmacist .
How should I store Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
• Keep Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules and all other medicines out of the reach of children .
• Store Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] • Safely dispose of Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules that are out of date or that you no longer need .
General information about Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in patient information leaflets .
Do not use Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules that is written for health professionals .
You can also call Granules ' product information department at 1 - 877 - 770 - 3183 .
What are the ingredients in Trospium Chloride Extended - Release Capsules ?
Active Ingredient : trospium chloride .
Inactive Ingredients : corn starch , ethylcellulose , FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , gelatin , hypromellose , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , sodium lauryl sulfate , sucrose , talc , titanium dioxide , triacetin and triethyl citrate .
In addition , capsule printing ink contains ammonium hydroxide , black iron oxide , propylene glycol and shellac glaze .
* Listed trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured For : Burel Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Brandon , MS 39042 Manufactured By : Granules Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Chantilly , VA 20151 Rev . 02 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
