WARNINGS : LACTIC ACIDOSIS / SEVERE HEPATOMEGALY WITH STEATOSIS , POST TREATMENT ACUTE EXACERBATION OF HEPATITIS B , and RISK OF DRUG RESISTANCE WITH USE OF TRUVADA FOR PRE - EXPOSURE PROPHYLAXIS ( PrEP ) IN UNDIAGNOSED EARLY HIV - 1 INFECTION Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs , including VIREAD , a component of TRUVADA , in combination with other antiretrovirals [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
TRUVADA is not approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection and the safety and efficacy of TRUVADA have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV - 1 .
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV - 1 and have discontinued TRUVADA .
Therefore , hepatic function should be monitored closely with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months in patients who are infected with HBV and discontinue TRUVADA .
If appropriate , initiation of anti - hepatitis B therapy may be warranted [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
TRUVADA used for a PrEP indication must only be prescribed to individuals confirmed to be HIV - negative immediately prior to initiating and periodically ( at least every 3 months ) during use .
Drug - resistant HIV - 1 variants have been identified with use of TRUVADA for a PrEP indication following undetected acute HIV - 1 infection .
Do not initiate TRUVADA for a PrEP indication if signs or symptoms of acute HIV - 1 infection are present unless negative infection status is confirmed [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
WARNINGS : LACTIC ACIDOSIS / SEVERE HEPATOMEGALY WITH STEATOSIS , POST - TREATMENT ACUTE EXACERBATION OF HEPATITIS B , and RISK OF DRUG RESISTANCE WITH USE OF TRUVADA FOR PrEP IN UNDIAGNOSED HIV - 1 INFECTION See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs , including VIREAD , a component of TRUVADA .
( 5 . 1 ) • TRUVADA is not approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection .
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients coinfected with HIV - 1 and HBV who have discontinued TRUVADA .
Therefore , hepatic function should be monitored closely in HBV - infected patients who discontinue TRUVADA .
If appropriate , initiation of anti - hepatitis B therapy may be warranted .
( 5 . 2 ) • TRUVADA used for a PrEP indication must only be prescribed to individuals confirmed to be HIV - negative immediately prior to initial use and periodically during use .
Drug - resistant HIV - 1 variants have been identified with the use of TRUVADA for a PrEP indication following undetected acute HIV - 1 infection .
Do not initiate TRUVADA for a PrEP indication if signs or symptoms of acute HIV infection are present unless negative infection status is confirmed .
( 5 . 9 ) Boxed Warning 07 / 2012 Indications and Usage Pre - exposure Prophylaxis ( 1 . 2 ) 07 / 2012 Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) 07 / 2012 Contraindications ( 4 ) 07 / 2012 Warnings and Precautions New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment ( 5 . 3 ) 07 / 2012 Decreases in Bone Mineral Density ( 5 . 5 ) 07 / 2012 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome ( 5 . 7 ) 07 / 2012 Comprehensive Management to Reduce the Risk of Acquiring HIV - 1 ( 5 . 9 ) 07 / 2012 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE TRUVADA is a combination of EMTRIVA and VIREAD , both nucleoside analog HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
TRUVADA is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older .
( 1 ) TRUVADA is indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre - exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV - 1 in adults at high risk .
( 1 ) 1 . 1 Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection TRUVADA ® , a combination of EMTRIVA ® and VIREAD ® , is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents ( such as non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or protease inhibitors ) for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection in adults and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older .
The following points should be considered when initiating therapy with TRUVADA for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection : • It is not recommended that TRUVADA be used as a component of a triple nucleoside regimen .
• TRUVADA should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA ® , COMPLERA ® , EMTRIVA , VIREAD or lamivudine - containing products [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• In treatment experienced patients , the use of TRUVADA should be guided by laboratory testing and treatment history [ See Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
1 . 2 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis TRUVADA is indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre - exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV - 1 in adults at high risk .
This indication is based on clinical trials in men who have sex with men ( MSM ) at high risk for HIV - 1 infection and in heterosexual serodiscordant couples [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 , 14 . 3 ) ] .
When considering TRUVADA for pre - exposure prophylaxis the following factors may help to identify individuals at high risk : • has partner ( s ) known to be HIV - 1 infected , or • engages in sexual activity within a high prevalence area or social network and one or more of the following : • inconsistent or no condom use • diagnosis of sexually transmitted infections • exchange of sex for commodities ( such as money , food , shelter , or drugs ) • use of illicit drugs or alcohol dependence • incarceration • partner ( s ) of unknown HIV - 1 status with any of the factors listed above When prescribing TRUVADA for pre - exposure prophylaxis , healthcare providers must : • prescribe TRUVADA as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy because TRUVADA is not always effective in preventing the acquisition of HIV - 1 infection [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] ; • counsel all uninfected individuals to strictly adhere to the recommended TRUVADA dosing schedule because the effectiveness of TRUVADA in reducing the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 was strongly correlated with adherence as demonstrated by measurable drug levels in clinical trials [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] ; • confirm a negative HIV - 1 test immediately prior to initiating TRUVADA for a PrEP indication .
If clinical symptoms consistent with acute viral infection are present and recent ( < 1 month ) exposures are suspected , delay starting PrEP for at least one month and reconfirm HIV - 1 status or use a test approved by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of HIV - 1 infection , including acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] ; and • screen for HIV - 1 infection at least once every 3 months while taking TRUVADA for PrEP .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection ( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dose in adults and pediatric patients ( 12 years of age and older and weighing greater than or equal to 35 kg ) : One tablet once daily taken orally with or without food .
( 2 . 1 ) • Recommended dose in renally impaired HIV - 1 infected adult patients : Creatinine clearance 30 – 49 mL / min : 1 tablet every 48 hours .
( 2 . 3 ) CrCl below 30 mL / min or hemodialysis : Do not use TRUVADA .
( 2 . 3 ) Pre - exposure Prophylaxis ( 2 . 2 ) • Recommended dose in HIV - 1 uninfected adults : One tablet once daily taken orally with or without food .
( 2 . 2 ) • Recommended dose in renally impaired HIV - uninfected individuals : Do not use TRUVADA in HIV - uninfected individuals if CrCl is below 60 mL / min .
If a decrease in CrCl is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose for Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection The recommended dose of TRUVADA in adults and in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with body weight greater than or equal to 35 kg ( greater than or equal to 77 lb ) is one tablet ( containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) once daily taken orally with or without food .
2 . 2 Recommended Dose for Pre - exposure Prophylaxis The dose of TRUVADA in HIV - 1 uninfected adults is one tablet ( containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) once daily taken orally with or without food .
2 . 3 Dose Adjustment for Renal Impairment Treatment of HIV - 1 infection Significantly increased drug exposures occurred when EMTRIVA or VIREAD were administered to subjects with moderate to severe renal impairment [ see EMTRIVA or VIREAD Package Insert ] .
Therefore , adjust the dosing interval of TRUVADA in HIV - 1 infected adult patients with baseline creatinine clearance 30 – 49 mL / min using the recommendations in Table 1 .
These dosing interval recommendations are based on modeling of single - dose pharmacokinetic data in non - HIV infected subjects .
The safety and effectiveness of these dosing interval adjustment recommendations have not been clinically evaluated in patients with moderate renal impairment , therefore clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored in these patients [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
No dose adjustment is necessary for HIV - 1 infected patients with mild renal impairment ( creatinine clearance 50 – 80 mL / min ) .
No data are available to make dose recommendations in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
Table 1 Dosage Adjustment for HIV - 1 Infected Adult Patients with Altered Creatinine Clearance Creatinine Clearance ( mL / min ) [ 1 ] ≥ 50 30 – 49 < 30 ( Including Patients Requiring Hemodialysis ) Recommended Dosing Interval Every 24 hours Every 48 hours TRUVADA should not be administered .
[ 1 ] Calculated using ideal ( lean ) body weight Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in all individuals with mild renal impairment [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Pre - exposure Prophylaxis Do not use TRUVADA for a PrEP indication in HIV - 1 uninfected individuals with creatinine clearance below 60 mL / min [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in all individuals with mild renal impairment .
If a decrease in creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS TRUVADA is available as tablets .
Each tablet contains 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( which is equivalent to 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil ) .
The tablets are blue , capsule - shaped , film - coated , debossed with " GILEAD " on one side and with " 701 " on the other side .
Tablets : 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not use TRUVADA for pre - exposure prophylaxis in individuals with unknown or positive HIV - 1 status .
TRUVADA should be used in HIV - infected patients only in combination with other antiretroviral agents .
Do not use TRUVADA for pre - exposure prophylaxis in individuals with unknown or positive HIV - 1 status .
TRUVADA should be used in HIV - infected patients only in combination with other antiretroviral agents .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • New onset or worsening renal impairment : Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome .
Assess creatinine clearance ( CrCl ) before initiating treatment with TRUVADA .
Monitor CrCl and serum phosphorus in patients at risk .
Avoid administering Truvada with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs .
( 5 . 3 ) • Coadministration with Other Products : Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , VIREAD ; or with drugs containing lamivudine .
Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA .
( 5 . 4 ) • Decreases in bone mineral density ( BMD ) : Consider assessment of BMD in patients with a history of pathologic fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss .
( 5 . 5 ) • Redistribution / accumulation of body fat : Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy .
( 5 . 6 ) • Immune reconstitution syndrome : May necessitate further evaluation and treatment .
( 5 . 7 ) • Triple nucleoside - only regimens : Early virologic failure has been reported in HIV - infected patients .
Monitor carefully and consider treatment modification .
( 5 . 8 ) • Comprehensive management to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 : Use as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy including other prevention measures ; strictly adhere to dosing schedule .
( 5 . 9 ) • Management to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 drug resistance : Prior to initiating TRUVADA for PrEP - if clinical symptoms consistent with acute viral infection are present and recent ( < 1 month ) exposures are suspected , delay starting PrEP for at least one month and reconfirm negative HIV - 1 status or use a test approved by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of HIV - 1 infection , including acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
While using TRUVADA for PrEP - HIV - 1 screening tests should be repeated at least every 3 months .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Lactic Acidosis / Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs , including VIREAD , a component of TRUVADA , in combination with other antiretrovirals .
A majority of these cases have been in women .
Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors .
Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient or uninfected individual with known risk factors for liver disease ; however , cases have also been reported in HIV - 1 infected patients with no known risk factors .
Treatment with TRUVADA should be suspended in any patient or uninfected individual who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity ( which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations ) .
5 . 2 HBV Infection It is recommended that all individuals be tested for the presence of chronic hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) before initiating TRUVADA .
TRUVADA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection and the safety and efficacy of TRUVADA have not been established in patients infected with HBV .
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV - 1 and have discontinued TRUVADA .
In some patients infected with HBV and treated with EMTRIVA , the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure .
Patients who are infected with HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow - up for at least several months after stopping treatment with TRUVADA .
If appropriate , initiation of anti - hepatitis B therapy may be warranted .
HBV - uninfected individuals should be offered vaccination .
5 . 3 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Emtricitabine and tenofovir are principally eliminated by the kidney .
Renal impairment , including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome ( renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia ) , has been reported with the use of VIREAD [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
It is recommended that creatinine clearance be calculated in all individuals prior to initiating therapy and as clinically appropriate during therapy with TRUVADA .
Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in all individuals at risk for renal impairment , including individuals who have previously experienced renal events while receiving HEPSERA .
TRUVADA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent .
Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection Dosing interval adjustment of TRUVADA and close monitoring of renal function are recommended in all patients with creatinine clearance 30 – 49 mL / min , [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
No safety or efficacy data are available in patients with renal impairment who received TRUVADA using these dosing guidelines , so the potential benefit of TRUVADA therapy should be assessed against the potential risk of renal toxicity .
TRUVADA should not be administered to patients with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min or patients requiring hemodialysis .
Pre - exposure Prophylaxis TRUVADA for a PrEP indication should not be used if creatinine clearance is less than 60 mL / min .
If a decrease in creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Coadministration with Other Products TRUVADA is a fixed - dose combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate .
Do not coadminister TRUVADA with ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , or VIREAD .
Due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine , do not coadminister TRUVADA with other drugs containing lamivudine , including Combivir ( lamivudine / zidovudine ) , Epivir or Epivir - HBV ( lamivudine ) , Epzicom ( abacavir sulfate / lamivudine ) , or Trizivir ( abacavir sulfate / lamivudine / zidovudine ) .
Do not coadminister TRUVADA with HEPSERA ® ( adefovir dipivoxil ) .
5 . 5 Decreases in Bone Mineral Density Assessment of bone mineral density ( BMD ) should be considered for adults and in pediatric patients 12 years of age and older who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss .
Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied , such supplementation may be beneficial .
If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : In a 144 - week trial of treatment - naive HIV - 1 infected adult subjects , decreases in BMD were seen at the lumbar spine and hip in both arms of the trial .
At Week 144 , there was a significantly greater mean percentage decrease from baseline in BMD at the lumbar spine in subjects receiving VIREAD + lamivudine + efavirenz compared with subjects receiving stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz .
Changes in BMD at the hip were similar between the two treatment groups .
In both groups , the majority of the reduction in BMD occurred in the first 24 – 48 weeks of the trial and this reduction was sustained through 144 weeks .
Twenty - eight percent of VIREAD - treated subjects vs . 21 % of the comparator subjects lost at least 5 % of BMD at the spine or 7 % of BMD at the hip .
Clinically relevant fractures ( excluding fingers and toes ) were reported in 4 subjects in the VIREAD group and 6 subjects in the comparator group .
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was associated with significant increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism ( serum bone - specific alkaline phosphatase , serum osteocalcin , serum C - telopeptide , and urinary N - telopeptide ) , suggesting increased bone turnover .
Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1 , 25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving VIREAD .
In a clinical trial of HIV - 1 infected pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older ( Study 321 ) , bone effects were similar to adult subjects .
Under normal circumstances , BMD increases rapidly in this age group .
In this trial , the mean rate of bone gain was less in the VIREAD - treated group compared to the placebo group .
Six VIREAD treated subjects and one placebo treated subject had significant ( greater than 4 % ) lumbar spine BMD loss in 48 weeks .
Among 28 subjects receiving 96 weeks of VIREAD , Z - scores declined by - 0 . 341 for lumbar spine and - 0 . 458 for total body .
Skeletal growth ( height ) appeared to be unaffected .
Markers of bone turnover in VIREAD - treated pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older suggest increased bone turnover , consistent with the effects observed in adults .
In clinical trials of HIV - 1 uninfected individuals , decreases in BMD were observed .
In the iPrEx trial , a substudy of 503 subjects found mean changes from baseline in BMD ranging from - 0 . 4 % to - 1 . 0 % across total hip , spine , femoral neck , and trochanter in the TRUVADA group compared with the placebo group , which returned toward baseline after discontinuation of treatment .
Thirteen percent of subjects receiving TRUVADA vs . 6 % of subjects receiving placebo lost at least 5 % of BMD at the spine during treatment .
Bone fractures were reported in 1 . 7 % of the TRUVADA group compared with 1 . 4 % in the placebo group .
No correlation between BMD and fractures was noted [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The Partners PrEP trial found similar fracture rates between treatment and placebo groups ( 0 . 8 % and 0 . 6 % , respectively ) .
No BMD evaluations were conducted during this trial [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] .
The effects of VIREAD - associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long - term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown .
For additional information , please consult the VIREAD prescribing information .
Cases of osteomalacia ( associated with proximal renal tubulopathy and which may contribute to fractures ) have been reported in association with the use of VIREAD [ See Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 6 Fat Redistribution Redistribution / accumulation of body fat including central obesity , dorsocervical fat enlargement ( buffalo hump ) , peripheral wasting , facial wasting , breast enlargement , and " cushingoid appearance " have been observed in HIV - 1 infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy .
The mechanism and long - term consequences of these events are currently unknown .
A causal relationship has not been established .
5 . 7 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in HIV - 1 infected patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy , including TRUVADA .
During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment , HIV - 1 infected patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [ such as Mycobacterium avium infection , cytomegalovirus , Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia ( PCP ) , or tuberculosis ] , which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment .
Autoimmune disorders ( such as Graves ' disease , polymyositis , and Guillain - Barré syndrome ) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution , however , the time to onset is more variable , and can occur many months after initiation of treatment .
5 . 8 Early Virologic Failure Clinical trials in HIV - 1 infected subjects have demonstrated that certain regimens that only contain three nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTI ) are generally less effective than triple drug regimens containing two NRTIs in combination with either a non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor or a HIV - 1 protease inhibitor .
In particular , early virological failure and high rates of resistance substitutions have been reported .
Triple nucleoside regimens should therefore be used with caution .
Patients on a therapy utilizing a triple nucleoside - only regimen should be carefully monitored and considered for treatment modification .
5 . 9 Comprehensive Management to Reduce the Risk of Acquiring HIV - 1 Use TRUVADA for pre - exposure prophylaxis only as part of a comprehensive prevention strategy that includes other prevention measures , such as safer sex practices , because TRUVADA is not always effective in preventing the acquisition of HIV - 1 [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 and 14 . 3 ) ] .
• Counsel uninfected individuals about safer sex practices that include consistent and correct use of condoms , knowledge of their HIV - 1 status and that of their partner ( s ) , and regular testing for other sexually transmitted infections that can facilitate HIV - 1 transmission ( such as syphilis and gonorrhea ) .
• Inform uninfected individuals about and support their efforts in reducing sexual risk behavior .
Use TRUVADA to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 only in individuals confirmed to be HIV - negative .
HIV - 1 resistance substitutions may emerge in individuals with undetected HIV - 1 infection who are taking only TRUVADA , because TRUVADA alone does not constitute a complete treatment regimen for HIV - 1 treatment [ See Microbiology : Resistance ( 12 . 4 ) ] ; therefore , care should be taken to minimize drug exposure in HIV - infected individuals .
• Many HIV - 1 tests , such as rapid tests , detect anti - HIV antibodies and may not identify HIV - 1 during the acute stage of infection .
Prior to initiating TRUVADA for a PrEP indication , evaluate seronegative individuals for current or recent signs or symptoms consistent with acute viral infections ( e . g . , fever , fatigue , myalgia , skin rash , etc . ) and ask about potential exposure events ( e . g . , unprotected , or condom broke during sex with an HIV - 1 infected partner ) that may have occurred within the last month .
• If clinical symptoms consistent with acute viral infection are present and recent ( < 1 month ) exposures are suspected , delay starting PrEP for at least one month and reconfirm HIV - 1 status or use a test approved by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of HIV - 1 infection , including acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
• While using TRUVADA for a PrEP indication , HIV - 1 screening tests should be repeated at least every 3 months .
If symptoms consistent with acute HIV - 1 infection develop following a potential exposure event , PrEP should be discontinued until negative infection status is confirmed using a test approved by the FDA as an aid in the diagnosis of HIV - 1 , including acute or primary HIV - 1 infection .
Counsel uninfected individuals to strictly adhere to the recommended TRUVADA dosing schedule .
The effectiveness of TRUVADA in reducing the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 is strongly correlated with adherence as demonstrated by measurable drug levels in clinical trials [ See Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 and 14 . 3 ) ] .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling : • Lactic Acidosis / Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [ See Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Severe Acute Exacerbations of hepatitis B [ See Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Decreases in Bone Mineral Density [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
In HIV1 infected patients , the most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 10 % ) are diarrhea , nausea , fatigue , headache , dizziness , depression , insomnia , abnormal dreams , and rash .
( 6 . 1 ) In HIV - 1 uninfected individuals in PrEP trials , adverse reactions that were reported by more than 2 % of TRUVADA subjects and more frequently than by placebo subjects were headache , abdominal pain and weight decreased .
( 6 . 2 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Gilead Sciences , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 445 - 3235 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience in HIV - 1 Infected Subjects Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects The most common adverse reactions ( incidence greater than or equal to 10 % , any severity ) occurring in Study 934 , an active - controlled clinical trial of efavirenz , emtricitabine , and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , include diarrhea , nausea , fatigue , headache , dizziness , depression , insomnia , abnormal dreams , and rash .
See also Table 2 for the frequency of treatment - emergent adverse reactions ( Grade 2 – 4 ) occurring in greater than or equal to 5 % of subjects treated in any treatment group in this trial .
Skin discoloration , manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and / or soles , was generally mild and asymptomatic .
The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown .
Study 934 - Treatment Emergent Adverse Reactions : In Study 934 , 511 antiretroviral - naive subjects received either VIREAD + EMTRIVA administered in combination with efavirenz ( N = 257 ) or zidovudine / lamivudine administered in combination with efavirenz ( N = 254 ) for 144 weeks .
Subjects had a mean age of 40 years ( range 20 to 73 years ) and were predominantly male ( 88 % ) .
Overall , 65 % were White , 17 % were Black , and 13 % were Hispanic .
Adverse reactions observed in this trial were generally consistent with those seen in other trials in treatment - experienced or treatment - naive subjects receiving VIREAD and / or EMTRIVA ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 Selected Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] ( Grades 2 – 4 ) Reported in ≥ 5 % in Any Treatment Group in Study 934 ( 0 – 144 Weeks ) FTC + TDF + EFV [ 2 ] AZT / 3 TC + EFV N = 257 N = 254 Gastrointestinal Disorder Diarrhea 9 % 5 % Nausea 9 % 7 % Vomiting 2 % 5 % General Disorders and Administration Site Condition Fatigue 9 % 8 % Infections and Infestations Sinusitis 8 % 4 % Upper respiratory tract infections 8 % 5 % Nasopharyngitis 5 % 3 % Nervous System Disorders Headache 6 % 5 % Dizziness 8 % 7 % Psychiatric Disorders Depression 9 % 7 % Insomnia 5 % 7 % Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash event [ 3 ] 7 % 9 % [ 1 ] Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment - emergent adverse events , regardless of relationship to study drug .
[ 2 ] From Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial , subjects received TRUVADA with efavirenz in place of VIREAD + EMTRIVA with efavirenz .
[ 3 ] Rash event includes rash , exfoliative rash , rash generalized , rash macular , rash maculo - papular , rash pruritic , and rash vesicular .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Laboratory abnormalities observed in this trial were generally consistent with those seen in other trials of VIREAD and / or EMTRIVA ( Table 3 ) .
Table 3 Significant Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥ 1 % of Subjects in Any Treatment Group in Study 934 ( 0 – 144 Weeks ) FTC + TDF + EFV [ 1 ] AZT / 3 TC + EFV N = 257 N = 254 Any ≥ Grade 3 Laboratory Abnormality 30 % 26 % Fasting Cholesterol ( > 240 mg / dL ) 22 % 24 % Creatine Kinase ( M : > 990 U / L ) ( F : > 845 U / L ) 9 % 7 % Serum Amylase ( > 175 U / L ) 8 % 4 % Alkaline Phosphatase ( > 550 U / L ) 1 % 0 % AST ( M : > 180 U / L ) ( F : > 170 U / L ) 3 % 3 % ALT ( M : > 215 U / L ) ( F : > 170 U / L ) 2 % 3 % Hemoglobin ( < 8 . 0 mg / dL ) 0 % 4 % Hyperglycemia ( > 250 mg / dL ) 2 % 1 % Hematuria ( > 75 RBC / HPF ) 3 % 2 % Glycosuria ( ≥ 3 + ) < 1 % 1 % Neutrophils ( < 750 / mm3 ) 3 % 5 % Fasting Triglycerides ( > 750 mg / dL ) 4 % 2 % [ 1 ] From Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial , subjects received TRUVADA with efavirenz in place of VIREAD + EMTRIVA with efavirenz .
In addition to the events described above for Study 934 , other adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5 % of subjects receiving EMTRIVA or VIREAD with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials include anxiety , arthralgia , increased cough , dyspepsia , fever , myalgia , pain , abdominal pain , back pain , paresthesia , peripheral neuropathy ( including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy ) , pneumonia , and rhinitis .
In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described above for Study 934 , Grade 3 / 4 laboratory abnormalities of increased bilirubin ( > 2 . 5 × ULN ) , increased pancreatic amylase ( > 2 . 0 × ULN ) , increased or decreased serum glucose ( < 40 or > 250 mg / dL ) , and increased serum lipase ( > 2 . 0 × ULN ) occurred in up to 3 % of subjects treated with EMTRIVA or VIREAD with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials .
Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects 12 Years of Age and Older Emtricitabine : In addition to the adverse reactions reported in adults , anemia and hyperpigmentation were observed in 7 % and 32 % , respectively , of pediatric subjects ( 3 months to less than 18 years of age ) who received treatment with EMTRIVA in the larger of two open - label , uncontrolled pediatric trials ( N = 116 ) .
For additional information , please consult the EMTRIVA prescribing information .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : In a pediatric clinical trial conducted in subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age , the adverse reactions observed in pediatric subjects who received treatment with VIREAD were consistent with those observed in clinical trials of VIREAD in adults [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
6 . 2 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trial Experience in HIV - 1 Uninfected Adult Subjects No new adverse reactions to TRUVADA were identified from two randomized placebo - controlled clinical trials ( iPrEx , Partners PrEP ) in which 2830 HIV - 1 uninfected adults received TRUVADA once daily for pre - exposure prophylaxis .
Subjects were followed for a median of 71 weeks and 87 weeks , respectively .
These trials enrolled HIV - negative individuals ranging in age from 18 to 67 years .
The iPrEx trial enrolled only males or transgender females of Hispanic / Latino ( 72 % ) , White ( 18 % ) , Black ( 9 % ) and Asian ( 5 % ) race .
The Partners PrEP trial enrolled both males ( 61 – 64 % across treatment groups ) and females in Kenya and Uganda .
Table 4 provides a list of all adverse events that occurred ≥ 2 % of subjects in any treatment group in the iPrEx and Partners PrEP trials .
Laboratory Abnormalities : Table 5 provides a list of laboratory abnormalities observed in both trials .
Six subjects in the TDF - containing arms of the Partners PrEP trial discontinued participation in the study due to an increase in blood creatinine compared with no discontinuations in the placebo group .
One subject in the TRUVADA arm of the iPrEx trial discontinued from the study due to an increase in blood creatinine and another due to low phosphorous .
In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described above , Grade 1 proteinuria ( 1 + ) occurred in 6 % of subjects receiving TRUVADA in the iPrEx trial .
Grade 2 – 3 proteinuria ( 2 – 4 + ) and glycosuria ( 3 + ) occurred in less than 1 % of subjects treated with TRUVADA in the iPrEx trial and Partners PrEP trial .
Table 4 Selected Adverse Events ( All Grades ) Reported in ≥ 2 % in Any Treatment Group in the iPrEx Trial and Partners PrEP Trial iPrEx Trial Partners PrEP Trial FTC / TDF ( N = 1251 ) Placebo ( N = 1248 ) FTC / TDF ( N - 1579 ) Placebo ( N = 1584 ) Gastrointestinal Disorders Diarrhea 7 % 8 % 2 % 3 % Abdominal pain 4 % 2 % - [ 1 ] - Infections and Infestations Pharyngitis 13 % 16 % - - Urethritis 5 % 7 % - - Urinary tract infection 2 % 2 % 5 % 7 % Syphilis 6 % 5 % - - Secondary syphilis 6 % 4 % - - Anogenital warts 2 % 3 % - - Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back pain 5 % 5 % - - Nervous System Disorders Headache 7 % 6 % - - Psychiatric Disorders Depression 6 % 7 % - - Anxiety 3 % 3 % - - Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Genital ulceration 2 % 2 % 2 % 2 % Investigations Weight decreased 3 % 2 % - - [ 1 ] not reported or reported below 2 % .
Table 5 Laboratory Abnormalities ( Highest Toxicity Grade ) Reported for Each Subject in the iPrEx Trial and Partners PrEP Trial iPrEx Trial Partners PrEP Trial Grade [ 1 ] FTC / TDF N = 1251 Placebo N = 1248 FTC / TDF N = 1579 Placebo N = 1584 Creatinine 1 ( 1 . 1 – 1 . 3 × ULN ) 27 ( 2 % ) 21 ( 2 % ) 18 ( 1 % ) 12 ( < 1 % ) 2 – 4 ( > 1 . 4 × ULN ) 5 ( < 1 % ) 3 ( < 1 % ) 2 ( < 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Phosphorus 1 ( 2 . 5 – < LLN mg / dL ) 81 ( 7 % ) 110 ( 9 % ) NR [ 2 ] NR null 2 – 4 ( < 2 . 0 mg / dL ) 123 ( 10 % ) 101 ( 8 % ) 140 ( 9 % ) 136 ( 9 % ) AST 1 ( 1 . 25 – < 2 . 5 × ULN ) 175 ( 14 % ) 175 ( 14 % ) 20 ( 1 % ) 25 ( 2 % ) 2 – 4 ( > 2 . 6 × ULN ) 57 ( 5 % ) 61 ( 5 % ) 10 ( < 1 % ) 4 ( < 1 % ) ALT 1 ( 1 . 25 – < 2 .
– 5 × ULN ) 178 ( 14 % ) 194 ( 16 % ) 21 ( 1 % ) 13 ( < 1 % ) 2 – 4 ( > 2 . 6 × ULN ) 84 ( 7 % ) 82 ( 7 % ) 4 ( < 1 % ) 6 ( < 1 % ) Hemoglobin 1 ( 8 . 5 – 10 mg / dL ) 49 ( 4 % ) 62 ( 5 % ) 56 ( 4 % ) 39 ( 2 % ) 2 – 4 ( < 9 . 4 mg / dL ) 13 ( 1 % ) 19 ( 2 % ) 28 ( 2 % ) 39 ( 2 % ) Neutrophils 1 ( 1000 – 1300 / mm3 ) 23 ( 2 % ) 25 ( 2 % ) 208 ( 13 % ) 163 ( 10 % ) 2 – 4 ( < 750 / mm3 ) 7 ( < 1 % ) 7 ( < 1 % ) 73 ( 5 % ) 56 ( 3 % ) [ 1 ] Grading is per DAIDS criteria .
[ 2 ] Grade 1 phosphorus was not reported for the Partners PrEP trial .
6 . 3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of VIREAD .
No additional adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of EMTRIVA .
Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Immune System Disorders allergic reaction , including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders lactic acidosis , hypokalemia , hypophosphatemia Respiratory , Thoracic , and Mediastinal Disorders dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders pancreatitis , increased amylase , abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders hepatic steatosis , hepatitis , increased liver enzymes ( most commonly AST , ALT gamma GT ) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders rhabdomyolysis , osteomalacia ( manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures ) , muscular weakness , myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders acute renal failure , renal failure , acute tubular necrosis , Fanconi syndrome , proximal renal tubulopathy , interstitial nephritis ( including acute cases ) , nephrogenic diabetes insipidus , renal insufficiency , increased creatinine , proteinuria , polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions asthenia The following adverse reactions , listed under the body system headings above , may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy : rhabdomyolysis , osteomalacia , hypokalemia , muscular weakness , myopathy , hypophosphatemia .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction trials have been conducted using TRUVADA tablets .
Drug interaction trials have been conducted with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , the components of TRUVADA .
This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions observed with emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Didanosine : Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations .
Use with caution and monitor for evidence of didanosine toxicity ( e . g . , pancreatitis , neuropathy ) when coadministered .
Consider dose reductions or discontinuations of didanosine if warranted .
( 7 . 1 ) • Atazanavir : Coadministration decreases atazanavir concentrations and increases tenofovir concentrations .
Use atazanavir with TRUVADA only with ritonavir ; monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity .
( 7 . 2 ) • Lopinavir / ritonavir : Coadministration increases tenofovir concentrations .
Monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Didanosine Coadministration of TRUVADA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine - associated adverse reactions .
Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine - associated adverse reactions .
When tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was administered with didanosine the Cmax and AUC of didanosine administered as either the buffered or enteric - coated formulation increased significantly [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The mechanism of this interaction is unknown .
Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosine - associated adverse reactions , including pancreatitis , and neuropathy .
Suppression of CD4 + cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily .
In patients weighing greater than 60 kg , the didanosine dose should be reduced to 250 mg when it is coadministered with TRUVADA .
Data are not available to recommend a dose adjustment of didanosine for adult or pediatric patients weighing less than 60 kg .
When coadministered , TRUVADA and Videx EC may be taken under fasted conditions or with a light meal ( less than 400 kcal , 20 % fat ) .
Coadministration of didanosine buffered tablet formulation with TRUVADA should be under fasted conditions .
7 . 2 Atazanavir Atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The mechanism of this interaction is unknown .
Patients receiving atazanavir and TRUVADA should be monitored for TRUVADA - associated adverse reactions .
TRUVADA should be discontinued in patients who develop TRUVADA - associated adverse reactions .
Tenofovir decreases the AUC and Cmin of atazanavir [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
When coadministered with TRUVADA , it is recommended that atazanavir 300 mg is given with ritonavir 100 mg .
Atazanavir without ritonavir should not be coadministered with TRUVADA .
7 . 3 Lopinavir / Ritonavir Lopinavir / ritonavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
The mechanism of this interaction is unknown .
Patients receiving lopinavir / ritonavir and TRUVADA should be monitored for TRUVADA - associated adverse reactions .
TRUVADA should be discontinued in patients who develop TRUVADA - associated adverse reactions .
7 . 4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion [ See Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No drug - drug interactions due to competition for renal excretion have been observed ; however , coadministration of TRUVADA with drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of emtricitabine , tenofovir , and / or the coadministered drug .
Some examples include , but are not limited to acyclovir , adefovir dipivoxil , cidofovir , ganciclovir , valacyclovir , and valganciclovir .
Drugs that decrease renal function may increase concentrations of emtricitabine and / or tenofovir .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing mothers : Women infected with HIV - 1 should be instructed not to breast feed .
( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry : To monitor fetal outcomes of pregnant women exposed to TRUVADA , an Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry ( APR ) has been established .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling 1 - 800 - 258 - 4263 .
Risk Summary TRUVADA has been evaluated in a limited number of women during pregnancy and postpartum .
Available human and animal data suggest that TRUVADA does not increase the risk of major birth defects overall compared to the background rate .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled trials in pregnant women .
Because the studies in humans cannot rule out the possibility of harm , TRUVADA should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
If an uninfected individual becomes pregnant while taking TRUVADA for a PrEP indication , careful consideration should be given to whether use of TRUVADA should be continued , taking into account the potential increased risk of HIV - 1 infection during pregnancy .
Clinical Considerations As of July 2011 , the APR has received prospective reports of 764 and 1219 exposures to emtricitabine - and tenofovir - containing regimens , respectively in the first trimester , 321 and 455 exposures , respectively , in second trimester , and 140 and 257 exposures , respectively , in the third trimester .
Birth defects occurred in 18 of 764 ( 2 . 4 % ) live births for emtricitabine - containing regimens and 27 of 1219 ( 2 . 2 % ) live births for tenofovir - containing regimens ( first trimester exposure ) and 10 of 461 ( 2 . 2 % ) live births for emtricitabine - containing regimens and 15 of 714 ( 2 . 1 % ) live births for tenofovir - containing regimens ( second / third trimester exposure ) .
Among pregnant women in the U . S . reference population , the background rate of birth defects is 2 . 7 % .
There was no association between emtricitabine or tenofovir and overall birth defects observed in the APR .
Animal Data Emtricitabine : The incidence of fetal variations and malformations was not increased in embryofetal toxicity studies performed with emtricitabine in mice at exposures ( AUC ) approximately 60 - fold higher and in rabbits at approximately 120 - fold higher than human exposures at the recommended daily dose .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to 14 and 19 times the human dose based on body surface area comparisons and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tenofovir .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Nursing Mothers : The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that HIV - 1 infected mothers not breast - feed their infants to avoid risking postnatal transmission of HIV - 1 .
Studies in humans have shown that both tenofovir and emtricitabine are excreted in human milk .
Because the risks of low level exposure to emtricitabine and tenofovir to infants are unknown , mothers should be instructed not to breast - feed if they are receiving TRUVADA , whether they are taking TRUVADA for treatment or to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 .
Emtricitabine Samples of breast milk obtained from five HIV - 1 infected mothers show that emtricitabine is secreted in human milk .
Breastfeeding infants whose mothers are being treated with emtricitabine may be at risk for developing viral resistance to emtricitabine .
Other emtricitabine - associated risks in infants breastfed by mothers being treated with emtricitabine are unknown .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Samples of breast milk obtained from five HIV - 1 infected mothers show that tenofovir is secreted in human milk .
Tenofovir - associated risks , including the risk of viral resistance to tenofovir , in infants breastfed by mothers being treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are unknown .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use TRUVADA should only be administered to HIV - 1 infected pediatric patients 12 years of age and older with body weight greater than or equal to 35 kg ( greater than or equal to 77 lb ) because it is a fixed - dose combination tablet containing a component , VIREAD , for which safety and efficacy have not been established in pediatric patients less than 12 years of age or weighing less than 35 kg ( less than 77 lb ) [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of EMTRIVA or VIREAD did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
In general , dose selection for the elderly patients should be cautious , keeping in mind the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Patients with Impaired Renal Function Treatment of HIV - 1 infection The dosing interval for TRUVADA should be modified in HIV - infected adult patients with creatinine clearance of 30 – 49 mL / min .
TRUVADA should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min and in patients with end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis .
[ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Pre - exposure Prophylaxis TRUVADA for a PrEP indication should not be used in HIV - 1 uninfected individuals with creatinine clearance below 60 mL / min .
If a decrease in creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE If overdose occurs , the patient must be monitored for evidence of toxicity , and standard supportive treatment applied as necessary .
Emtricitabine : Limited clinical experience is available at doses higher than the therapeutic dose of EMTRIVA .
In one clinical pharmacology trial , single doses of emtricitabine 1200 mg were administered to 11 subjects .
No severe adverse reactions were reported .
Hemodialysis treatment removes approximately 30 % of the emtricitabine dose over a 3 - hour dialysis period starting within 1 . 5 hours of emtricitabine dosing ( blood flow rate of 400 mL / min and a dialysate flow rate of 600 mL / min ) .
It is not known whether emtricitabine can be removed by peritoneal dialysis .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Limited clinical experience at doses higher than the therapeutic dose of VIREAD 300 mg is available .
In one trial , 600 mg tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was administered to 8 subjects orally for 28 days , and no severe adverse reactions were reported .
The effects of higher doses are not known .
Tenofovir is efficiently removed by hemodialysis with an extraction coefficient of approximately 54 % .
Following a single 300 mg dose of VIREAD , a four - hour hemodialysis session removed approximately 10 % of the administered tenofovir dose .
11 DESCRIPTION TRUVADA tablets are fixed dose combination tablets containing emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate .
EMTRIVA is the brand name for emtricitabine , a synthetic nucleoside analog of cytidine .
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( tenofovir DF ) is converted in vivo to tenofovir , an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate ( nucleotide ) analog of adenosine 5 ' - monophosphate .
Both emtricitabine and tenofovir exhibit inhibitory activity against HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase .
Emtricitabine : The chemical name of emtricitabine is 5 - fluoro - 1 - ( 2 R , 5 S ) - [ 2 - ( hydroxymethyl ) - 1 , 3 - oxathiolan - 5 - yl ] cytosine .
Emtricitabine is the ( - ) enantiomer of a thio analog of cytidine , which differs from other cytidine analogs in that it has a fluorine in the 5 - position .
It has a molecular formula of C8H10FN3O3S and a molecular weight of 247 . 24 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Emtricitabine is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a solubility of approximately 112 mg / mL in water at 25 ° C .
The partition coefficient ( log p ) for emtricitabine is - 0 . 43 and the pKa is 2 . 65 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a fumaric acid salt of the bis - isopropoxycarbonyloxymethyl ester derivative of tenofovir .
The chemical name of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is 9 - [ ( R ) - 2 [ [ bis [ [ ( isopropoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] - methoxy ] phosphinyl ] methoxy ] propyl ] adenine fumarate ( 1 : 1 ) .
It has a molecular formula of C19H30N5O10P ∙ C4H4O4 and a molecular weight of 635 . 52 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is a white to off - white crystalline powder with a solubility of 13 . 4 mg / mL in water at 25 ° C .
The partition coefficient ( log p ) for tenofovir disoproxil is 1 . 25 and the pKa is 3 . 75 .
All dosages are expressed in terms of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate except where otherwise noted .
TRUVADA tablets are for oral administration .
Each film - coated tablet contains 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , ( which is equivalent to 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil ) , as active ingredients .
The tablets also include the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and pregelatinized starch ( gluten free ) .
The tablets are coated with Opadry II Blue Y - 30 - 10701 , which contains FD & C Blue # 2 aluminum lake , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 2910 , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY For additional information on Mechanism of Action , Antiviral Activity , Resistance and Cross Resistance , please consult the EMTRIVA and VIREAD prescribing information .
12 . 1 Mechanism of Action TRUVADA is a fixed - dose combination of antiviral drugs emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [ See Microbiology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics TRUVADA : One TRUVADA tablet was bioequivalent to one EMTRIVA capsule ( 200 mg ) plus one VIREAD tablet ( 300 mg ) following single - dose administration to fasting healthy subjects ( N = 39 ) .
Emtricitabine : The pharmacokinetic properties of emtricitabine are summarized in Table 4 .
Following oral administration of EMTRIVA , emtricitabine is rapidly absorbed with peak plasma concentrations occurring at 1 – 2 hours post - dose .
Less than 4 % of emtricitabine binds to human plasma proteins in vitro and the binding is independent of concentration over the range of 0 . 02 – 200 μg / mL .
Following administration of radiolabelled emtricitabine , approximately 86 % is recovered in the urine and 13 % is recovered as metabolites .
The metabolites of emtricitabine include 3 ' - sulfoxide diastereomers and their glucuronic acid conjugate .
Emtricitabine is eliminated by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
Following a single oral dose of EMTRIVA , the plasma emtricitabine half - life is approximately 10 hours .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : The pharmacokinetic properties of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate are summarized in Table 6 .
Following oral administration of VIREAD , maximum tenofovir serum concentrations are achieved in 1 . 0 ± 0 . 4 hour .
Less than 0 . 7 % of tenofovir binds to human plasma proteins in vitro and the binding is independent of concentration over the range of 0 . 01 – 25 µg / mL .
Approximately 70 – 80 % of the intravenous dose of tenofovir is recovered as unchanged drug in the urine .
Tenofovir is eliminated by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion .
Following a single oral dose of VIREAD , the terminal elimination half - life of tenofovir is approximately 17 hours .
Table 6 Single Dose Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Emtricitabine and Tenofovir in Adults [ 1 ] Emtricitabine Tenofovir Fasted Oral Bioavailability [ 2 ] ( % ) 92 ( 83 . 1 – 106 . 4 ) 25 ( NC – 45 . 0 ) Plasma Terminal Elimination Half - Life null ( hr ) 10 ( 7 . 4 – 18 . 0 ) 17 ( 12 . 0 – 25 . 7 ) Cmax [ 3 ] ( μg / mL ) 1 . 8 ± 0 . 72 [ 4 ] 0 . 30 ± 0 . 09 AUC null ( μg ∙ hr / mL ) 10 . 0 ± 3 . 12 null 2 . 29 ± 0 . 69 CL / F null ( mL / min ) 302 ± 94 1043 ± 115 CLrenal null ( mL / min ) 213 ± 89 243 ± 33 [ 1 ] NC = Not calculated [ 2 ] Median ( range ) [ 3 ] Mean ( ± SD ) [ 4 ] Data presented as steady state values Effects of Food on Oral Absorption TRUVADA may be administered with or without food .
Administration of TRUVADA following a high fat meal ( 784 kcal ; 49 grams of fat ) or a light meal ( 373 kcal ; 8 grams of fat ) delayed the time of tenofovir Cmax by approximately 0 . 75 hour .
The mean increases in tenofovir AUC and Cmax were approximately 35 % and 15 % , respectively , when administered with a high fat or light meal , compared to administration in the fasted state .
In previous safety and efficacy trials , VIREAD ( tenofovir ) was taken under fed conditions .
Emtricitabine systemic exposures ( AUC and Cmax ) were unaffected when TRUVADA was administered with either a high fat or a light meal .
Special Populations Race Emtricitabine : No pharmacokinetic differences due to race have been identified following the administration of EMTRIVA .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : There were insufficient numbers from racial and ethnic groups other than Caucasian to adequately determine potential pharmacokinetic differences among these populations following the administration of VIREAD .
Gender Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Emtricitabine and tenofovir pharmacokinetics are similar in male and female subjects .
Pediatric Patients TRUVADA should not be administered to HIV - 1 infected pediatric patients less than 12 years of age or weighing less than 35 kg ( less than 77 lb ) .
Emtricitabine : The pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine at steady state were determined in 27 HIV - 1 - infected pediatric subjects 13 to 17 years of age receiving a daily dose of 6 mg / kg up to a maximum dose of 240 mg oral solution or a 200 mg capsule ; 26 of 27 subjects in this age group received the 200 mg EMTRIVA capsule .
Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax and AUC were 2 . 7 ± 0 . 9 μg / mL and 12 . 6 ± 5 . 4 μg • hr / mL , respectively .
Exposures achieved in pediatric subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age were similar to those achieved in adults receiving a once daily dose of 200 mg .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Steady - state pharmacokinetics of tenofovir were evaluated in 8 HIV - 1 infected pediatric subjects ( 12 to less than 18 years ) .
Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax and AUCtau are 0 . 38 ± 0 . 13 μg / mL and 3 . 39 ± 1 . 22 μg • hr / mL , respectively .
Tenofovir exposure achieved in these pediatric subjects receiving oral daily doses of VIREAD 300 mg was similar to exposures achieved in adults receiving once - daily doses of VIREAD 300 mg .
Geriatric Patients Pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine and tenofovir have not been fully evaluated in the elderly ( 65 years of age and older ) .
Patients with Impaired Renal Function The pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine and tenofovir are altered in subjects with renal impairment [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
In adult subjects with creatinine clearance below 50 mL / min , Cmax , and AUC0 –∞ of emtricitabine and tenofovir were increased .
It is recommended that the dosing interval for TRUVADA be modified in HIV - infected adult patients with creatinine clearance 30 – 49 mL / min .
No data are available to make dose recommendations in pediatric patients with renal impairment .
TRUVADA should not be used in patients with creatinine clearance below 30 mL / min and in patients with end - stage renal disease requiring dialysis [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
TRUVADA for a PrEP indication should not be used in HIV - 1 uninfected individuals with creatinine clearance below 60 mL / min .
If a decrease in creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment The pharmacokinetics of tenofovir following a 300 mg dose of VIREAD have been studied in non - HIV infected subjects with moderate to severe hepatic impairment .
There were no substantial alterations in tenofovir pharmacokinetics in subjects with hepatic impairment compared with unimpaired subjects .
The pharmacokinetics of TRUVADA or emtricitabine have not been studied in subjects with hepatic impairment ; however , emtricitabine is not significantly metabolized by liver enzymes , so the impact of liver impairment should be limited .
Assessment of Drug Interactions The steady state pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine and tenofovir were unaffected when emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were administered together versus each agent dosed alone .
In vitro studies and clinical pharmacokinetic drug - drug interaction trials have shown that the potential for CYP mediated interactions involving emtricitabine and tenofovir with other medicinal products is low .
No clinically significant drug interactions have been observed between emtricitabine and famciclovir , indinavir , stavudine , tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , and zidovudine ( see Tables 7 and 8 ) .
Similarly , no clinically significant drug interactions have been observed between tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and abacavir , efavirenz , emtricitabine , entecavir , indinavir , lamivudine , lopinavir / ritonavir , methadone , nelfinavir , oral contraceptives , ribavirin , saquinavir / ritonavir , and tacrolimus in trials conducted in healthy volunteers ( see Tables 9 and 10 ) .
Table 7 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Emtricitabine in the Presence of the Coadministered Drug [ 1 ] Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) Emtricitabine Dose ( mg ) N % Change of Emtricitabine Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ 2 ] ( 90 % CI ) Cmax AUC Cmin Tenofovir DF 300 once daily × 7 days 200 once daily × 7 days 17 ⇔ ⇔ ↑ 20 ( ↑ 12 to ↑ 29 ) Zidovudine 300 twice daily × 7 days 200 once daily × 7 days 27 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Indinavir 800 × 1 200 × 1 12 ⇔ ⇔ NA Famciclovir 500 × 1 200 × 1 12 ⇔ ⇔ NA Stavudine 40 × 1 200 × 1 6 ⇔ ⇔ NA [ 1 ] All interaction trials conducted in healthy volunteers [ 2 ] ↑ = Increase ; ↓ = Decrease ; ⇔ = No Effect ; NA = Not Applicable Table 8 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Coadministered Drug in the Presence of Emtricitabine [ 1 ] Coadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) Emtricitabine Dose ( mg ) N % Change of Coadministered Drug Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ 2 ] ( 90 % CI ) Cmax AUC Cmin Tenofovir DF 300 once daily × 7 days 200 once daily × 7 days 17 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Zidovudine 300 twice daily × 7 days 200 once daily × 7 days 27 ↑ 17 ( ↑ 0 to ↑ 38 ) ↑ 13 ( ↑ 5 to ↑ 20 ) ⇔ Indinavir 800 × 1 200 × 1 12 ⇔ ⇔ NA Famciclovir 500 × 1 200 × 1 12 ⇔ ⇔ NA Stavudine 40 × 1 200 × 1 6 ⇔ ⇔ NA [ 1 ] All interaction trials conducted in healthy volunteers [ 2 ] ↑ = Increase ; ↓ = Decrease ; ⇔ = No Effect ; NA = Not Applicable Table 9 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Tenofovir [ 1 ] in the Presence of the Coadministered DrugCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) N % Change of Tenofovir Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ 2 ] ( 90 % CI ) Cmax AUC Cmin Abacavir 300 once 8 ⇔ ⇔ NC Atazanavir [ 3 ] 400 once daily × 14 days 33 ↑ 14 ( ↑ 8 to ↑ 20 ) ↑ 24 ( ↑ 21 to ↑ 28 ) ↑ 22 ( ↑ 15 to ↑ 30 ) Didanosine ( enteric - coated ) 400 once 25 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Didanosine ( buffered ) 250 or 400 once daily × 7 days 14 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Efavirenz 600 once daily × 14 days 29 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Emtricitabine 200 once daily × 7 days 17 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Entecavir 1 mg once daily × 10 days 28 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Indinavir 800 three times daily × 7 days 13 ↑ 14 ( ↓ 3 to ↑ 33 ) ⇔ ⇔ Lamivudine 150 twice daily × 7 days 15 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Lopinavir / Ritonavir 400 / 100 twice daily × 14 days 24 ⇔ ↑ 32 ( ↑ 25 to ↑ 38 ) ↑ 51 ( ↑ 37 to ↑ 66 ) Nelfinavir 1250 twice daily × 14 days 29 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Saquinavir / Ritonavir 1000 / 100 twice daily × 14 days 35 ⇔ ⇔ ↑ 23 ( ↑ 16 to ↑ 30 ) Tacrolimus 0 . 05 mg / kg twice daily × 7 days 21 ↑ 13 ( ↑ 1 to ↑ 27 ) ⇔ ⇔ [ 1 ] Subjects received VIREAD 300 mg once daily [ 2 ] Increase = ↑ ; Decrease = ↓ ; No Effect = ⇔ ; NC = Not Calculated [ 3 ] Reyataz Prescribing Information Table 10 Drug Interactions : Changes in Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Coadministered Drug in the Presence of TenofovirCoadministered Drug Dose of Coadministered Drug ( mg ) N % Change of Coadministered Drug Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ 1 ] ( 90 % CI ) Cmax AUC Cmin Abacavir 300 once 8 ↑ 12 ( ↓ 1 to ↑ 26 ) ⇔ NA Atazanavir [ 2 ] 400 once daily × 14 days 34 ↓ 21 ( ↓ 27 to ↓ 14 ) ↓ 25 ( ↓ 30 to ↓ 19 ) ↓ 40 ( ↓ 48 to ↓ 32 ) Atazanavir null Atazanavir / Ritonavir 300 / 100 once daily × 42 days 10 ↓ 28 ( ↓ 50 to ↑ 5 ) ↓ 25 [ 3 ] ( ↓ 42 to ↓ 3 ) ↓ 23 null ( ↓ 46 to ↑ 10 ) Efavirenz 600 once daily × 14 days 30 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Emtricitabine 200 once daily × 7 days 17 ⇔ ⇔ ↑ 20 ( ↑ 12 to ↑ 29 ) Indinavir 800 three times daily × 7 days 12 ↓ 11 ( ↓ 30 to ↑ 12 ) ⇔ ⇔ Entecavir 1 mg once daily × 10 days 28 ⇔ ↑ 13 ( ↑ 11 to ↑ 15 ) ⇔ Lamivudine 150 twice daily × 7 days 15 ↓ 24 ( ↓ 34 to ↓ 12 ) ⇔ ⇔ Lopinavir Ritonavir Lopinavir / Ritonavir 400 / 100 twice daily × 14 days 24 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Methadone [ 4 ] 40 – 110 once daily × 14 days [ 5 ] 13 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Nelfinavir M8 metabolite 1250 twice daily × 14 days 29 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Oral Contraceptives [ 6 ] Ethinyl Estradiol / Norgestimate ( Ortho - Tricyclen ) Once daily × 7 days 20 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ Ribavirin 600 once 22 ⇔ ⇔ NA Saquinavir Saquinavir / Ritonavir 1000 / 100 twice daily × 14 days 32 ↑ 22 ( ↑ 6 to ↑ 41 ) ↑ 29 [ 7 ] ( ↑ 12 to ↑ 48 ) ↑ 47 null ( ↑ 23 to ↑ 76 ) Ritonavir ⇔ ⇔ ↑ 23 ( ↑ 3 to ↑ 46 ) Tacrolimus 0 . 05 mg / kg twice daily × 7 days 21 ⇔ ⇔ ⇔ [ 1 ] Increase = ↑ ; Decrease = ↓ ; No Effect = ⇔ ; NA = Not Applicable [ 2 ] Reyataz Prescribing Information [ 3 ] In HIV - infected subjects , addition of tenofovir DF to atazanavir 300 mg plus ritonavir 100 mg , resulted in AUC and Cmin values of atazanavir that were 2 . 3 and 4 - fold higher than the respective values observed for atazanavir 400 mg when given alone .
[ 4 ] R - ( active ) , S - and total methadone exposures were equivalent when dosed alone or with VIREAD .
[ 5 ] Individual subjects were maintained on their stable methadone dose .
No pharmacodynamic alterations ( opiate toxicity or withdrawal signs or symptoms ) were reported .
[ 6 ] Ethinyl estradiol and 17 - deacetyl norgestimate ( pharmacologically active metabolite ) exposures were equivalent when dosed alone or with VIREAD .
[ 7 ] Increases in AUC and Cmin are not expected to be clinically relevant ; hence no dose adjustments are required when tenofovir DF and ritonavir - boosted saquinavir are coadministered .
Following multiple dosing to HIV - negative subjects receiving either chronic methadone maintenance therapy or oral contraceptives , or single doses of ribavirin , steady state tenofovir pharmacokinetics were similar to those observed in previous trials , indicating lack of clinically significant drug interactions between these agents and VIREAD .
Coadministration of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with didanosine results in changes in the pharmacokinetics of didanosine that may be of clinical significance .
Table 11 summarizes the effects of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate on the pharmacokinetics of didanosine .
Concomitant dosing of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate with didanosine buffered tablets or enteric - coated capsules significantly increases the Cmax and AUC of didanosine .
When didanosine 250 mg enteric - coated capsules were administered with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate , systemic exposures of didanosine were similar to those seen with the 400 mg enteric - coated capsules alone under fasted conditions .
The mechanism of this interaction is unknown .
See Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) regarding use of didanosine with VIREAD .
Table 11 Drug Interactions : Pharmacokinetic Parameters for Didanosine in the Presence of VIREADDidanosine [ 1 ] Dose ( mg ) / Method of Administration null VIREAD Method of Administration null N % Difference ( 90 % CI ) vs . Didanosine 400 mg Alone , Fasted [ 2 ] Cmax AUC Buffered tablets 400 once daily [ 3 ] × 7 days Fasted 1 hour after didanosine 14 ↑ 28 ( ↑ 11 to ↑ 48 ) ↑ 44 ( ↑ 31 to ↑ 59 ) Enteric coated capsules 400 once , fasted With food , 2 hours after didanosine 26 ↑ 48 ( ↑ 25 to ↑ 76 ) ↑ 48 ( ↑ 31 to ↑ 67 ) 400 once , with food Simultaneously with didanosine 26 ↑ 64 ( ↑ 41 to ↑ 89 ) ↑ 60 ( ↑ 44 to ↑ 79 ) 250 once , fasted With food , 2 hours after didanosine 28 ↓ 10 ( ↓ 22 to ↑ 3 ) ⇔ 250 once , fasted Simultaneously with didanosine 28 ⇔ ↑ 14 ( 0 to ↑ 31 ) 250 once , with food Simultaneously with didanosine 28 ↓ 29 ( ↓ 39 to ↓ 18 ) ↓ 11 ( ↓ 23 to ↑ 2 ) [ 1 ] Administration with food was with a light meal ( ~ 373 kcal , 20 % fat ) .
[ 2 ] Increase = ↑ ; Decrease = ↓ ; No Effect = ⇔ [ 3 ] Includes 4 subjects weighing < 60 kg receiving ddI 250 mg .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action Emtricitabine : Emtricitabine , a synthetic nucleoside analog of cytidine , is phosphorylated by cellular enzymes to form emtricitabine 5 ' - triphosphate .
Emtricitabine 5 ' - triphosphate inhibits the activity of the HIV - 1 reverse transcriptase ( RT ) by competing with the natural substrate deoxycytidine 5 ' - triphosphate and by being incorporated into nascent viral DNA which results in chain termination . Emtricitabine 5 ' - triphosphate is a weak inhibitor of mammalian DNA polymerase α , β , ε and mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is an acyclic nucleoside phosphonate diester analog of adenosine monophosphate .
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate requires initial diester hydrolysis for conversion to tenofovir and subsequent phosphorylations by cellular enzymes to form tenofovir diphosphate .
Tenofovir diphosphate inhibits the activity of HIV - 1 RT by competing with the natural substrate deoxyadenosine 5 ' - triphosphate and , after incorporation into DNA , by DNA chain termination .
Tenofovir diphosphate is a weak inhibitor of mammalian DNA polymerases α , β , and mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ .
Antiviral Activity Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : In combination studies evaluating the cell culture antiviral activity of emtricitabine and tenofovir together , synergistic antiviral effects were observed .
Emtricitabine : The antiviral activity of emtricitabine against laboratory and clinical isolates of HIV - 1 was assessed in lymphoblastoid cell lines , the MAGI - CCR5 cell line , and peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
The 50 % effective concentration ( EC50 ) values for emtricitabine were in the range of 0 . 0013 – 0 . 64 µM ( 0 . 0003 – 0 . 158 µg / mL ) .
In drug combination studies of emtricitabine with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( abacavir , lamivudine , stavudine , zalcitabine , zidovudine ) , non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( delavirdine , efavirenz , nevirapine ) , and protease inhibitors ( amprenavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , saquinavir ) , additive to synergistic effects were observed .
Emtricitabine displayed antiviral activity in cell culture against HIV - 1 clades A , B , C , D , E , F , and G ( EC50 values ranged from 0 . 007 – 0 . 075 µM ) and showed strain specific activity against HIV - 2 ( EC50 values ranged from 0 . 007 – 1 . 5 µM ) .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : The antiviral activity of tenofovir against laboratory and clinical isolates of HIV - 1 was assessed in lymphoblastoid cell lines , primary monocyte / macrophage cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes .
The EC50 values for tenofovir were in the range of 0 . 04 – 8 . 5 µM .
In drug combination studies of tenofovir with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( abacavir , didanosine , lamivudine , stavudine , zalcitabine , zidovudine ) , non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( delavirdine , efavirenz , nevirapine ) , and protease inhibitors ( amprenavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , ritonavir , saquinavir ) , additive to synergistic effects were observed .
Tenofovir displayed antiviral activity in cell culture against HIV - 1 clades A , B , C , D , E , F , G and O ( EC50 values ranged from 0 . 5 – 2 . 2 µM ) and showed strain specific activity against HIV - 2 ( EC50 values ranged from 1 . 6 µM to 5 . 5 µM ) .
Prophylactic Activity in a Nonhuman Primate Model of HIV Transmission Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : The prophylactic activity of the combination of daily oral emtricitabine ( FTC ) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( TDF ) was evaluated in a controlled study of macaques inoculated once weekly for 14 weeks with SIV / HIV - 1 chimeric virus ( SHIV ) applied to the rectal surface .
Of the 18 control animals , 17 became infected after a median of 2 weeks .
In contrast , 4 of the 6 animals treated daily with oral FTC and TDF remained uninfected and the two infections that did occur were significantly delayed until 9 and 12 weeks and exhibited reduced viremia .
An M184I - expressing FTC - resistant variant emerged in 1 of the 2 macaques after 3 weeks of continued drug exposure .
Resistance Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : HIV - 1 isolates with reduced susceptibility to the combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir have been selected in cell culture .
Genotypic analysis of these isolates identified the M184V / I and / or K65R amino acid substitutions in the viral RT .
In a clinical trial of treatment - naive subjects [ Study 934 , see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] , resistance analysis was performed on HIV - 1 isolates from all confirmed virologic failure subjects with greater than 400 copies / mL of HIV - 1 RNA at Week 144 or early discontinuation .
Development of efavirenz resistance - associated substitutions occurred most frequently and was similar between the treatment arms .
The M184V amino acid substitution , associated with resistance to EMTRIVA and lamivudine , was observed in 2 / 19 analyzed subject isolates in the EMTRIVA + VIREAD group and in 10 / 29 analyzed subject isolates in the zidovudine / lamivudine group .
Through 144 weeks of Study 934 , no subjects have developed a detectable K65R substitution in their HIV - 1 as analyzed through standard genotypic analysis .
Emtricitabine : Emtricitabine - resistant isolates of HIV - 1 have been selected in cell culture and in vivo .
Genotypic analysis of these isolates showed that the reduced susceptibility to emtricitabine was associated with a substitution in the HIV - 1 RT gene at codon 184 which resulted in an amino acid substitution of methionine by valine or isoleucine ( M184V / I ) .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : HIV - 1 isolates with reduced susceptibility to tenofovir have been selected in cell culture .
These viruses expressed a K65R substitution in RT and showed a 2 – 4 fold reduction in susceptibility to tenofovir .
In treatment - naive subjects , isolates from 8 / 47 ( 17 % ) analyzed subjects developed the K65R substitution in the VIREAD arm through 144 weeks ; 7 occurred in the first 48 weeks of treatment and 1 at Week 96 .
In treatment - experienced subjects , 14 / 304 ( 5 % ) isolates from subjects failing VIREAD through Week 96 showed greater than 1 . 4 fold ( median 2 . 7 ) reduced susceptibility to tenofovir .
Genotypic analysis of the resistant isolates showed a substitution in the HIV - 1 RT gene resulting in the K65R amino acid substitution .
iPrEx Trial : In a clinical study of HIV - 1 seronegative subjects [ iPrEx Trial , see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] , no amino acid substitutions associated with resistance to emtricitabine or tenofovir were detected at the time of seroconversion among 48 subjects in the TRUVADA group and 83 subjects in the placebo group who became infected with HIV - 1 during the trial .
Ten subjects were observed to be HIV - 1 infected at time of enrollment .
The M184V / I substitutions associated with resistance to emtricitabine were observed in 3 of the 10 subjects ( 2 of 2 in the TRUVADA group and 1 of 8 in the placebo group ) .
One of the two subjects in the TRUVADA group harbored wild type virus at enrollment and developed the M184V substitution 4 weeks after enrollment .
The other subject had indeterminate resistance at enrollment but was found to have the M184I substitution 4 weeks after enrollment .
Partners PrEP Trial : In a clinical study of HIV - 1 seronegative subjects [ Partners PrEP Trial , see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 3 ) ] , no variants expressing amino acid substitutions associated with resistance to emtricitabine or tenofovir were detected at the time of seroconversion among 12 subjects in the TRUVADA group , 15 subjects in the VIREAD group , and 51 subjects in the placebo group .
Fourteen subjects were observed to be HIV - 1 infected at the time of enrollment ( 3 in the TRUVADA group , 5 in the VIREAD group , and 6 in the placebo group ) .
One of the three subjects in the TRUVADA group who was infected with wild type virus at enrollment selected an M184V expressing virus by week 12 .
Two of the five subjects in the VIREAD group had tenofovir - resistant viruses at the time of seroconversion ; one subject infected with wild type virus at enrollment developed a K65R substitution by week 16 , while the second subject had virus expressing the combination of D67N and K70R substitutions upon seroconversion at week 60 , although baseline virus was not genotyped and it is unclear if the resistance emerged or was transmitted .
Following enrollment , 4 subjects ( 2 in the VIREAD group , 1 in the TRUVADA group , and 1 in the placebo group ) had virus expressing K103N or V106A substitutions , which confer high - level resistance to NNRTIs but have not been associated with tenofovir or emtricitabine and may have been present in the infecting virus .
Cross Resistance Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Cross - resistance among certain nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs ) has been recognized .
The M184V / I and / or K65R substitutions selected in cell culture by the combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir are also observed in some HIV - 1 isolates from subjects failing treatment with tenofovir in combination with either lamivudine or emtricitabine , and either abacavir or didanosine .
Therefore , cross - resistance among these drugs may occur in patients whose virus harbors either or both of these amino acid substitutions .
Emtricitabine : Emtricitabine - resistant isolates ( M184V / I ) were cross - resistant to lamivudine and zalcitabine but retained susceptibility in cell culture to didanosine , stavudine , tenofovir , zidovudine , and NNRTIs ( delavirdine , efavirenz , and nevirapine ) .
HIV - 1 isolates containing the K65R substitution , selected in vivo by abacavir , didanosine , tenofovir , and zalcitabine , demonstrated reduced susceptibility to inhibition by emtricitabine .
Viruses harboring substitutions conferring reduced susceptibility to stavudine and zidovudine ( M41L , D67N , K70R , L210W , T215Y / F , K219Q / E ) , or didanosine ( L74V ) remained sensitive to emtricitabine .
HIV - 1 containing the K103N substitution associated with resistance to NNRTIs was susceptible to emtricitabine .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : HIV - 1 isolates from subjects ( N = 20 ) whose HIV - 1 expressed a mean of 3 zidovudine - associated RT amino acid substitutions ( M41L , D67N , K70R , L210W , T215Y / F , or K219Q / E / N ) showed a 3 . 1 - fold decrease in the susceptibility to tenofovir .
Subjects whose virus expressed an L74V substitution without zidovudine resistance associated substitutions ( N = 8 ) had reduced response to VIREAD .
Limited data are available for patients whose virus expressed a Y115F substitution ( N = 3 ) , Q151M substitution ( N = 2 ) , or T69 insertion ( N = 4 ) , all of whom had a reduced response .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Emtricitabine : In long - term oral carcinogenicity studies of emtricitabine , no drug - related increases in tumor incidence were found in mice at doses up to 750 mg / kg / day ( 26 times the human systemic exposure at the therapeutic dose of 200 mg / day ) or in rats at doses up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 31 times the human systemic exposure at the therapeutic dose ) .
Emtricitabine was not genotoxic in the reverse mutation bacterial test ( Ames test ) , mouse lymphoma or mouse micronucleus assays .
Emtricitabine did not affect fertility in male rats at approximately 140 - fold or in male and female mice at approximately 60 - fold higher exposures ( AUC ) than in humans given the recommended 200 mg daily dose .
Fertility was normal in the offspring of mice exposed daily from before birth ( in utero ) through sexual maturity at daily exposures ( AUC ) of approximately 60 - fold higher than human exposures at the recommended 200 mg daily dose .
Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate : Long - term oral carcinogenicity studies of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in mice and rats were carried out at exposures up to approximately 16 times ( mice ) and 5 times ( rats ) those observed in humans at the therapeutic dose for HIV - 1 infection .
At the high dose in female mice , liver adenomas were increased at exposures 16 times that in humans .
In rats , the study was negative for carcinogenic findings at exposures up to 5 times that observed in humans at the therapeutic dose .
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was mutagenic in the in vitro mouse lymphoma assay and negative in an in vitro bacterial mutagenicity test ( Ames test ) .
In an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay , tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was negative when administered to male mice .
There were no effects on fertility , mating performance or early embryonic development when tenofovir disoproxil fumarate was administered to male rats at a dose equivalent to 10 times the human dose based on body surface area comparisons for 28 days prior to mating and to female rats for 15 days prior to mating through day seven of gestation .
There was , however , an alteration of the estrous cycle in female rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Tenofovir and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate administered in toxicology studies to rats , dogs and monkeys at exposures ( based on AUCs ) greater than or equal to 6 - fold those observed in humans caused bone toxicity .
In monkeys the bone toxicity was diagnosed as osteomalacia .
Osteomalacia observed in monkeys appeared to be reversible upon dose reduction or discontinuation of tenofovir .
In rats and dogs , the bone toxicity manifested as reduced bone mineral density .
The mechanism ( s ) underlying bone toxicity is unknown .
Evidence of renal toxicity was noted in 4 animal species .
Increases in serum creatinine , BUN , glycosuria , proteinuria , phosphaturia , and / or calciuria and decreases in serum phosphate were observed to varying degrees in these animals .
These toxicities were noted at exposures ( based on AUCs ) 2 – 20 times higher than those observed in humans .
The relationship of the renal abnormalities , particularly the phosphaturia , to the bone toxicity is not known .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Clinical Study 934 supports the use of TRUVADA tablets for the treatment of HIV - 1 infection .
Additional data in support of the use of TRUVADA are derived from clinical Study 903 , in which lamivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( tenofovir DF ) were used in combination in treatment - naive adults , and clinical Study 303 in which emtricitabine and lamivudine demonstrated comparable efficacy , safety and resistance patterns as part of multidrug regimens .
For additional information about these trials , please consult the prescribing information for tenofovir DF and emtricitabine .
The iPrEx study and Partners PrEP study support the use of TRUVADA to help reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 .
14 . 1 Study 934 Data through 144 weeks are reported for Study 934 , a randomized , open - label , active - controlled multicenter trial comparing emtricitabine + tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz versus zidovudine / lamivudine fixed - dose combination administered in combination with efavirenz in 511 antiretroviral - naive subjects .
From Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial , subjects received TRUVADA with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz .
Subjects had a mean age of 38 years ( range 18 – 80 ) , 86 % were male , 59 % were Caucasian and 23 % were Black .
The mean baseline CD4 + cell count was 245 cells / mm3 ( range 2 – 1191 ) and median baseline plasma HIV - 1 RNA was 5 . 01 log10 copies / mL ( range 3 . 56 – 6 . 54 ) .
Subjects were stratified by baseline CD4 + cell count ( < or ≥ 200 cells / mm3 ) ; 41 % had CD4 + cell counts < 200 cells / mm3 and 51 % of subjects had baseline viral loads > 100 , 000 copies / mL .
Treatment outcomes through 48 and 144 weeks for those subjects who did not have efavirenz resistance at baseline are presented in Table 12 .
Table 12 Outcomes of Randomized Treatment at Week 48 and 144 ( Study 934 ) Outcomes At Week 48 At Week 144 FTC + TDF + EFV ( N = 244 ) AZT / 3 TC + EFV ( N = 243 ) FTC + TDF + EFV ( N = 227 ) [ 1 ] AZT / 3 TC + EFV ( N = 229 ) null Responder [ 2 ] 84 % 73 % 71 % 58 % Virologic failure [ 3 ] 2 % 4 % 3 % 6 % Rebound 1 % 3 % 2 % 5 % Never suppressed 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % Change in antiretroviral regimen 1 % 1 % 1 % 1 % Death < 1 % 1 % 1 % 1 % Discontinued due to adverse event 4 % 9 % 5 % 12 % Discontinued for other reasons [ 4 ] 10 % 14 % 20 % 22 % [ 1 ] Subjects who were responders at Week 48 or Week 96 ( HIV - 1 RNA < 400 copies / mL ) but did not consent to continue trial after Week 48 or Week 96 were excluded from analysis .
[ 2 ] Subjects achieved and maintained confirmed HIV - 1 RNA < 400 copies / mL through Weeks 48 and 144 .
[ 3 ] Includes confirmed viral rebound and failure to achieve confirmed < 400 copies / mL through Weeks 48 and 144 .
[ 4 ] Includes lost to follow - up , subject withdrawal , noncompliance , protocol violation and other reasons .
Through Week 48 , 84 % and 73 % of subjects in the emtricitabine + tenofovir DF group and the zidovudine / lamivudine group , respectively , achieved and maintained HIV - 1 RNA < 400 copies / mL ( 71 % and 58 % through Week 144 ) .
The difference in the proportion of subjects who achieved and maintained HIV - 1 RNA < 400 copies / mL through 48 weeks largely results from the higher number of discontinuations due to adverse events and other reasons in the zidovudine / lamivudine group in this open - label trial .
In addition , 80 % and 70 % of subjects in the emtricitabine + tenofovir DF group and the zidovudine / lamivudine group , respectively , achieved and maintained HIV - 1 RNA < 50 copies / mL through Week 48 ( 64 % and 56 % through Week 144 ) .
The mean increase from baseline in CD4 + cell count was 190 cells / mm3 in the emtricitabine + tenofovir DF group and 158 cells / mm3 in the zidovudine / lamivudine group at Week 48 ( 312 and 271 cells / mm3 at Week 144 ) .
Through 48 weeks , 7 subjects in the emtricitabine + tenofovir DF group and 5 subjects in the zidovudine / lamivudine group experienced a new CDC Class C event ( 10 and 6 subjects through 144 weeks ) .
14 . 2 iPrEx Trial The iPrEx trial was a randomized double - blind placebo - controlled multinational study evaluating TRUVADA in 2499 HIV - seronegative men or transgender women who have sex with men and with evidence of high risk behavior for HIV - 1 infection .
Evidence of high risk behavior included any one of the following reported to have occurred up to six months prior to study screening : no condom use during anal intercourse with an HIV - 1 positive partner or a partner of unknown HIV status ; anal intercourse with more than 3 sex partners ; exchange of money , gifts , shelter or drugs for anal sex ; sex with male partner and diagnosis of sexually transmitted infection ; no consistent use of condoms with sex partner known to be HIV - 1 positive .
All subjects received monthly HIV - 1 testing , risk - reduction counseling , condoms and management of sexually transmitted infections .
Of the 2499 enrolled , 1251 received TRUVADA and 1248 received placebo .
The mean age of subjects was 27 years , 5 % were Asian , 9 % Black , 18 % White , and 72 % Hispanic / Latino .
Subjects were followed for 4237 person - years .
The primary outcome measure for the study was the incidence of documented HIV seroconversion .
At the end of treatment , emergent HIV - 1 seroconversion was observed in 131 subjects , of which 48 occurred in the TRUVADA group and 83 occurred in the placebo group , indicating a 42 % ( 95 % CI : 18 % to 60 % ) reduction in risk .
Risk reduction was found to be higher ( 53 % ; 95 % CI : 34 % to 72 % ) among subjects who reported previous unprotected anal intercourse ( URAI ) at screening ( 732 and 753 subjects reported URAI within the last 12 weeks at screening in the TRUVADA and placebo groups , respectively ) .
In a post - hoc case control study of plasma and intracellular drug levels in about 10 % of study subjects , risk reduction appeared to be the greatest in subjects with detectable intracellular tenofovir .
Efficacy was therefore strongly correlated with adherence .
14 . 3 Partners PrEP Trial The Partners PrEP trial was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled 3 arm trial conducted in 4758 serodiscordant heterosexual couples in Kenya and Uganda to evaluate the efficacy and safety of TDF ( N = 1589 ) and FTC / TDF ( N = 1583 ) versus ( parallel comparison ) placebo ( N = 1586 ) , in preventing HIV - 1 acquisition by the uninfected partner .
All subjects received monthly HIV - 1 testing , evaluation of adherence , assessment of sexual behavior , and safety evaluations .
Women were also tested monthly for pregnancy .
Women who became pregnant during the trial had study drug interrupted for the duration of the pregnancy and while breastfeeding .
The uninfected partner subjects were predominantly male ( 61 – 64 % across study drug groups ) , and had a mean age of 33 – 34 years .
Following 7827 person - years of follow up , 82 emergent HIV - 1 seroconversions were reported , with an overall observed seroincidence rate of 1 . 05 per 100 person - years .
Of the 82 seroconversions , 13 and 52 occurred in partner subjects randomized to TRUVADA and placebo , respectively .
Two of the 13 seroconversions in the TRUVADA arm and 3 of the 52 seroconversions in the placebo arm occurred in women during treatment interruptions for pregnancy .
The risk reduction for TRUVADA relative to placebo was 75 % ( 95 % CI : 55 % to 87 % ) .
In a post - hoc case control study of plasma drug levels in about 10 % of study subjects , risk reduction appeared to be the greatest in subjects with detectable plasma tenofovir .
Efficacy was therefore strongly correlated with adherence .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING The blue , capsule - shaped , film - coated , tablets contain 200 mg of emtricitabine and 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( which is equivalent to 245 mg of tenofovir disoproxil ) , are debossed with " GILEAD " on one side and with " 701 " on the other side , and are available in unit of use bottles [ containing a dessicant ( silica gel canister or sachet ) and closed with a child - resistant closure ] of : • 30 tablets ( NDC 54868 - 5141 - 0 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 – 30 ° C ( 59 – 86 ° F ) ( see USP Controlled Room Temperature ) .
• Keep container tightly closed • Dispense only in original container • Do not use if seal over bottle opening is broken or missing 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION As a part of patient counseling , healthcare providers must review the TRUVADA Medication Guide with every uninfected individual taking TRUVADA to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV .
see FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) 17 . 1 Important Information for All Patients and Uninfected Individuals Advise patients and uninfected individuals that : • The long term effects of TRUVADA are unknown .
• TRUVADA tablets are for oral ingestion only .
• Patients and uninfected individuals should not discontinue TRUVADA without first informing their physicians .
• Patients and uninfected individuals should remain under the care of a physician when using TRUVADA .
• It is important to take TRUVADA on a regular dosing schedule to avoid missing doses .
• Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis , including fatal cases , have been reported .
Treatment with TRUVADA should be suspended in patients or uninfected individuals who develop clinical symptoms suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity ( including nausea , vomiting , unusual or unexpected stomach discomfort , and weakness ) [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) and HIV - 1 and have discontinued TRUVADA .
Before initiating TRUVADA , test all patients and uninfected individuals for HBV .
All patients who are infected with HBV need close medical follow - up for several months after stopping TRUVADA to monitor for exacerbations of hepatitis [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Renal impairment , including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome , has been reported in association with the use of VIREAD .
TRUVADA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Dosing interval of TRUVADA may need adjustment in HIV - 1 infected patients with renal impairment .
TRUVADA for a PrEP indication should not be used in HIV - 1 uninfected individuals if creatinine clearance is less than 60 mL / min .
If a decrease in creatinine clearance is observed in uninfected individuals while using TRUVADA for PrEP , evaluate potential causes and re - assess potential risks and benefits of continued use [ See Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
• Do not administer TRUVADA with ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , or VIREAD ; or with drugs containing lamivudine , including Combivir ( lamivudine / zidovudine ) , Epivir or Epivir - HBV ( lamivudine ) , Epzicom ( abacavir sulfate / lamivudine ) , or Trizivir ( abacavir sulfate / lamivudine / zidovudine ) [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Do not administer TRUVADA with HEPSERA [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
• Decreases in bone mineral density have been observed with the use of VIREAD or TRUVADA .
Consider bone monitoring in patients and uninfected individuals who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or at risk for osteopenia [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Patients and uninfected individuals should avoid doing things that can spread HIV - 1 or HBV infection .
• Do not share needles or other injection equipment .
• Do not share personal items that can have blood or body fluids on them , like toothbrushes and razor blades .
• Do not have any kind of sex without protection .
Always practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to lower the chance of sexual contact with semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
• Patients and uninfected individuals should not breastfeed because the drugs in TRUVADA can be passed to the baby in breast milk , and it is not known whether they can harm the baby .
HIV - positive women should also not breastfeed because of the risk of passing the HIV - 1 virus to the baby .
17 . 2 Treatment of HIV - 1 Infection When TRUVADA is used in the treatment of HIV - infection , advise patients that : • TRUVADA is not a cure for HIV - 1 infection and patients may continue to experience illnesses associated with HIV - 1 infection , including opportunistic infections .
• It is important to take TRUVADA in a regular dosing schedule with combination therapy to avoid missing doses .
• All patients with HIV - 1 should be tested for hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) before initiating and monitored after discontinuing taking TRUVADA .
17 . 3 Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis When TRUVADA is used to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 , advise uninfected individuals about the importance of the following : • Confirming that they are HIV - negative before starting to take TRUVADA to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 .
• TRUVADA should only be used as part of a complete prevention strategy including other prevention measures .
In clinical trials , TRUVADA only protected some subjects from acquiring HIV - 1 .
• Using condoms consistently and correctly to lower the chance of sexual contact with any body fluids such as semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
• Knowing their HIV status and the status of their partner ( s ) .
• Getting tested regularly ( at least every 3 months ) for HIV - 1 and ask their partner ( s ) to get tested as well .
• HIV - 1 resistance substitutions may emerge in individuals with undetected HIV - 1 infection who are taking TRUVADA , because TRUVADA alone does not constitute a complete regimen for HIV - 1 treatment [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • Reporting any symptoms of acute HIV - 1 infection ( flu - like symptoms ) to their healthcare provider immediately .
• Signs and symptoms of acute infection include : fever , headache , fatigue , arthralgia , vomiting , myalgia , diarrhea , pharyngitis , rash , night sweats , and adenopathy ( cervical and inguinal ) .
• Getting tested for other sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis and gonorrhea that may facilitate HIV - 1 transmission .
• Learning about sexual risk behavior and getting support to help reduce sexual risk behavior .
• Taking TRUVADA on a regular dosing schedule and strictly adhere to the recommended dosing schedule to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 .
Uninfected individuals who miss doses are at greater risk of acquiring HIV - 1 than those who do not miss doses .
[ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
• Women who are pregnant should learn about the risks and benefits of TRUVADA to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV - 1 during their pregnancy .
• Encourage use of the Agreement Form for Initiating TRUVADA for PrEP of Sexually Acquired HIV - 1 Infection .
TRUVADA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , HEPSERA and VIREAD are registered trademarks of Gilead Sciences , Inc .
ATRIPLA is a trademark of Bristol - Myers Squibb & Gilead Sciences , LLC .
All other trademarks referenced herein are the property of their respective owners .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Gilead Sciences , Inc .
Foster City , CA 94404 21 - 752 - GS - 025 Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Medication Guide TRUVADA ® ( tru - VAH - dah ) ( emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) Tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking TRUVADA and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about TRUVADA ?
TRUVADA can cause serious side effects , including : • 1 .
Build - up of an acid in your blood ( lactic acidosis ) .
Lactic acidosis is a serious medical emergency that can lead to death .
• Lactic acidosis can be hard to identify early , because the symptoms could seem like symptoms of other health problems .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get the following symptoms which could be signs of lactic acidosis : • feeling very weak or tired • unusual muscle pain • trouble breathing • stomach pain with • nausea • vomiting • feel cold , especially in your arms and legs • feel dizzy or lightheaded • have a fast or irregular heartbeat • • 2 .
Severe liver problems .
Severe liver problems can happen in people who take TRUVADA .
In some cases these liver problems can lead to death .
Your liver may become large ( hepatomegaly ) and you may develop fat in your liver ( steatosis ) when you take TRUVADA .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you get the following symptoms : • your skin or the white part of your eyes turns yellow ( jaundice ) • dark " tea - colored " urine • light - colored bowel movements ( stools ) • loss of appetite for several days or longer • nausea • stomach pain • You may be more likely to get lactic acidosis or severe liver problems if you are female , very overweight ( obese ) , or have been taking TRUVADA for a long time .
• • 3 .
Worsening of your hepatitis B infection .
If you have hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection it may become worse ( flare - up ) if you take TRUVADA and then stop it .
A " flare - up " is when your HBV infection suddenly returns in a worse way than before .
• Do not run out of TRUVADA .
Refill your prescription or talk to your healthcare provider before your TRUVADA is all gone .
• Do not stop taking TRUVADA without first talking to your healthcare provider .
• If you stop taking TRUVADA , your healthcare provider will need to check your health often and do blood tests regularly for several months to check your HBV infection .
Tell your healthcare provider about any new or unusual symptoms you may have after you stop taking TRUVADA .
For more information about side effects , see the section " What are the possible side effects of TRUVADA ? "
Before taking TRUVADA to help prevent you from getting HIV : • You must get tested to be sure you are HIV - negative .
It is important that you also get tested at least every 3 months as recommended by your healthcare provider while taking TRUVADA .
Do not take TRUVADA to reduce the risk of getting HIV unless you are confirmed to be HIV - negative .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you have any of the following symptoms within the last month before you start taking TRUVADA or at any time while taking TRUVADA : • tiredness • fever • sweating a lot ( especially at night ) • rash • vomiting • diarrhea • joint or muscle aches • headache • sore throat • enlarged lymph nodes in the neck or groin These may be signs of HIV infection and you may need to have a different kind of test to diagnose HIV .
Also , tell your healthcare provider if you think you were exposed to the HIV virus .
If you are already taking TRUVADA to prevent HIV - 1 infection , your healthcare provider may tell you to stop taking TRUVADA until an HIV test confirms that you do not have HIV - 1 infection .
• TRUVADA by itself is not a complete treatment for HIV .
If you already have HIV or get HIV and take TRUVADA by itself without other medicines , you may develop resistance to TRUVADA .
This means that the HIV virus may become harder to treat .
• Just taking TRUVADA may not keep you from getting HIV .
TRUVADA does not always prevent HIV .
• You must still practice safer sex at all times .
Do not have any kind of sex without protection .
Always practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to lower the chance of sexual contact with semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
• You must also use other prevention methods to keep from getting HIV .
• Know your HIV status and the HIV status of your partners .
While taking TRUVADA , get tested at least every 3 months for HIV , as recommended by your healthcare provider .
Ask your partners to get tested .
• Get tested for other sexually transmitted infections such as syphilis and gonorrhea .
These infections make it easier for HIV to infect you .
• Get information and support to help reduce risky sexual behavior .
• Have fewer sex partners .
• Do not miss any doses of TRUVADA .
Missing doses increases your risk of getting HIV .
• See the section " What is TRUVADA ? "
and talk to your healthcare provider for more information about how to prevent HIV infection .
What is TRUVADA ?
TRUVADA contains the prescription medicines emtricitabine ( EMTRIVA ® ) and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ( VIREAD ® ) .
TRUVADA is used : • with other antiviral medicines to treat Human Immunodeficiency Virus - 1 ( HIV - 1 ) in adults and children age 12 years and older .
HIV is the virus that causes AIDS ( Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ) .
• with safer sex practices at all times , to reduce the risk of getting HIV - 1 in men who have sex with men who are at high risk of getting infected with HIV - 1 through sex , and heterosexual couples where one partner has HIV - 1 and the other does not .
This is called Pre - Exposure Prophylaxis or PrEP .
It is not known if TRUVADA is safe and effective in children with HIV - 1 infection who are under 12 years of age or who weigh less than 77 pounds .
When used with other HIV medicines to treat HIV - 1 infection , TRUVADA may help : • Reduce the amount of HIV in your blood .
This is called " viral load . "
• Increase the number of CD4 + ( T ) cells in your blood that help fight off other infections .
• Reducing the amount of HIV and increasing the CD4 + ( T ) cells in your blood may help improve your immune system .
This may reduce your risk of death or infections that can happen when your immune system is weak ( opportunistic infections ) .
TRUVADA does not cure HIV infection or AIDS .
If you have HIV infection , you must stay on continuous HIV therapy to control HIV infection and decrease HIV - related illnesses .
Avoid doing things that can increase your risk of getting HIV infection or spreading HIV infection to other people : • Do not share or re - use needles or other injection equipment .
• Do not share personal items that can have blood or body fluids on them , like toothbrushes and razor blades .
• Do not have any kind of sex without protection .
Always practice safer sex by using a latex or polyurethane condom to lower the chance of sexual contact with semen , vaginal secretions , or blood .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions on how to prevent getting HIV infection or spreading HIV infection to other people .
Who should not take TRUVADA ?
Do not take TRUVADA to prevent HIV infection if you are HIV positive or if your HIV status is not known .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking TRUVADA ?
See " What is the most important information I should know about TRUVADA ? "
Before taking TRUVADA , tell your healthcare provider if you : • have liver problems including hepatitis B virus infection • have kidney problems or receive kidney dialysis treatment • have bone problems • have any other medical conditions • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if TRUVADA can harm your unborn baby .
If you are a female who is taking TRUVADA to prevent HIV infection and you become pregnant while taking TRUVADA , talk to your healthcare provider about whether you will continue taking TRUVADA .
Pregnancy Registry .
There is a pregnancy registry for women who take antiviral medicines during pregnancy .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the health of you and your baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider about how you can take part in this registry .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Do not breastfeed if you take TRUVADA .
• You should not breastfeed if you have HIV because of the risk of passing HIV to your baby .
• TRUVADA can pass to your baby in your breast milk .
Talk with your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
TRUVADA may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how TRUVADA works .
Do not take TRUVADA if you also take : • other medicines that contain tenofovir or emtricitabine ( ATRIPLA , COMPLERA , EMTRIVA , VIREAD ) • medicines that contain lamivudine ( Combivir , Epivir , Epivir - HBV , Epzicom , Trizivir ) • adefovir ( HEPSERA ) Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • didanosine ( VIDEX EC ) • atazanavir ( REYATAZ ) • lopinavir with ritonavir ( KALETRA ) Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take TRUVADA ?
• Take TRUVADA exactly as prescribed .
• Do not change your dose or stop taking TRUVADA without first talking with your healthcare provider .
Stay under a healthcare provider ' s care when taking TRUVADA .
• TRUVADA is usually taken 1 time each day .
If you have kidney problems , your healthcare provider may tell you to take TRUVADA less often .
• When used to treat HIV - 1 infection , TRUVADA is always used with other HIV - 1 medicines .
• If you take TRUVADA to reduce the risk of getting HIV - 1 , you must also use other methods to reduce your risk of getting HIV .
See " What is the most important information I should know about TRUVADA ? "
• Take TRUVADA by mouth , with or without food .
• Take TRUVADA at the same time each day .
• If you miss a dose of TRUVADA , take it as soon as you remember that day .
Do not take more than 1 dose of TRUVADA in a day .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose .
Call your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure what to do .
• It is important that you do not miss any doses of TRUVADA or your other HIV - 1 medicines .
• When your TRUVADA supply starts to run low , get more from your healthcare provider or pharmacy .
This is very important because the amount of virus in your blood may increase if the medicine is stopped for even a short time .
The virus may develop resistance to TRUVADA and become harder to treat .
• If you take too much TRUVADA , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are the possible side effects of TRUVADA ?
TRUVADA may cause the following serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about TRUVADA ? "
• New or worse kidney problems , including kidney failure .
If you have had kidney problems in the past or need to take another medicine that can cause kidney problems , your healthcare provider may need to do blood tests to check your kidneys before you start and while you are taking TRUVADA .
Your healthcare provider may tell you to take TRUVADA less often , or to stop taking TRUVADA if you have kidney problems .
• Bone problems can happen in some people who take TRUVADA .
Bone problems include bone pain , softening or thinning ( which may lead to fractures ) .
Your healthcare provider may need to do tests to check your bones .
• Changes in body fat can happen in people who take HIV medicines .
These changes may include increased amount of fat in the upper back and neck ( " buffalo hump " ) , breast , and around the middle of your body ( trunk ) .
Loss of fat from the legs , arms , and face may also happen .
The exact cause and long - term health effects of these problems are not known .
• Changes in your immune system ( Immune Reconstitution Syndrome ) can happen when an HIV - infected person starts taking HIV medicines .
Your immune system may get stronger and begin to fight infections that have been hidden in your body for a long time .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you start having any new symptoms after starting your HIV medicine .
The most common side effects of TRUVADA in people with HIV - 1 infection include : • Diarrhea • nausea • tiredness • headache • dizziness • depression • problems sleeping • abnormal dreams • rash Common side effects in people who take TRUVADA to prevent HIV - 1 infection include : • stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain • headache • decreased weight Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of TRUVADA .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store TRUVADA ?
• Store TRUVADA at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Keep TRUVADA in its original container and keep the container tightly closed .
• Do not use TRUVADA if seal over bottle opening is broken or missing .
Keep TRUVADA and all other medicines out of reach of children .
General information about TRUVADA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use TRUVADA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give TRUVADA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about TRUVADA .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about TRUVADA that is written for health professionals .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 445 - 3235 or go to www . TRUVADA . com .
What are the ingredients in TRUVADA ?
Active ingredients : emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate Inactive ingredients : Croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and pregelatinized starch ( gluten free ) .
The tablets are coated with Opadry II Blue Y - 30 - 10701 which contains FD & C Blue # 2 aluminum lake , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 2910 , lactose monohydrate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for and distributed by : Gilead Sciences , Inc .
Foster City , CA 94404 Issued July 2012 21 - 752 - GS - 025 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 30 Tablet Bottle Label NDC 54868 - 5141 - 0 Truvada ® ( emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ) Tablets 30 tablets Rx only DISPENSER : Each time Truvada ® is dispensed give the patient the attached Medication Guide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
