Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % w / w Purpose Antifungal Uses • proven clinically effective in the treatment of athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • prevents the recurrences of athlete ' s foot with daily use • for effective relief of itching , burning , cracking , redness and scaling Warnings For external use only .
Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
When using this product avoid contact with eyes .
Stop use and consult a doctor if • irritation occurs • there is no improvement in 4 weeks Keep out of reach of children .
If accidental ingestion occurs , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Read all warnings and directions .
Use only as directed .
• clean the affected area and dry thoroughly • apply a thin layer of the product over the affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) or as directed by a doctor • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between toes • wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes , and change shoes and socks at least once daily • for athlete ' s foot and ringworm , use daily for 4 weeks .
• If condition persists longer , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot : wash the feet thoroughly , apply a thin layer of the product to the feet once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • this product is not effective on the scalp or nails Other information • store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • protect from freezing .
If freezing occurs warm to room temperature • keep tightly closed when not in use Inactive ingredient Water , Acrylates Copolymer , Glycerin ( RSPO ) , Phenoxyethanol , Tocopherol , Sodium Hydroxide , Ethylhexyglycerin Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel maximum strength antifungal liquid tolnaftate 1 % new formula proven clinically effective in the cure and prevention of fungus on fingers , toes and around nails burning and scaling relieves itching , with moisturizer easy to apply applicator brush NET 1 FL OZ ( 30 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
