Active ingredient Tolnaftate 1 % Purpose Antifungal Uses • prevents recurrence of athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) with daily use • cures mose athlete ' s foot ( tinea pedis ) and ringworm ( tinea corporis ) • relieves sypmtoms of athlete ' s foot , including itching , burning and cracking Warnings For external use only .
Flammable : Do not use while smoking or near heat or flame .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Contents under pressure .
Do not store at temperature above 120ºF .
Intentional misuse by deliberately concentrating and inhaling the contents can be harmful or fatal .
When using this product • do not get into eyes or mouth , if products get into eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• use only as directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation occurs • no improvement within 4 weeks Do not use on children under 2 years of age unless directed by a doctor Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • wash affected area and dry thoroughly • shake can well and spray a thin layer over affected area twice daily ( morning and night ) • supervise children in the use of this product • for athlete ' s foot : pay special attention to spaces between the toes , wear well - fitting , ventilated shoes and change shoes and socks at least once daily • use daily for 4 weeks • if conditions persist , consult a doctor • to prevent athlete ' s foot , apply once or twice daily ( morning and / or night ) • if nozzle clogs , clear under running water Other information store between 20º and 30ºC ( 68ºF and 86º ) Inactive ingredients disteardimonium hectorite , fragrance , isobutane , isopropyl myristate , SD alcohol 40 - B , sodium bicarbonate Questions ?
call 1 - 866 - 964 - 0939 Principal Display Panel Premier Value Antifungal Foot Odor Control Powder Spray Tolnaftate 1 % Cures most athlete ' s foor and prevents recurrence Reduces foot odor Relieves itching , burning and cracking NET WT 4 . 0 OZ ( 113 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
