ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP 25 mg PURPOSE Antiemetic DESCRIPTION Chemically , Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is 1 - ( p - Chloro - α - phenylbenzyl ) - 4 - ( m - methylbenzyl ) piperazine dihydrochloride monohydrate .
Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is an oral antiemetic , which is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder having a slight odor and is tasteless .
The molecular weight is 481 . 89 g / mol .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 25 H 27 CIN 2 · 2 HCl · H 20 M . W . 481 . 88544 g / mol [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is an antihistamine that shows marked protective activity against nebulized histamine and lethal doses of intravenously injected histamine in guinea pigs .
It has a marked effect in blocking the vasodepressor response to histamine , but only a slight blocking action against acetylcholine .
Its activity is relatively weak in inhibiting the spasmogenic action of histamine on isolated guinea pig ileum .
Pharmacokinetics The available pharmacokinetic information for Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP following oral administration has been summarized from published literature .
Absorption Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is absorbed after oral administration with maximum plasma concentrations reaching at a median T max value of 3 hours post - dose ( range : 1 . 5 to 6 hours ) for the tablet dosage form .
Distribution Drug distribution characteristics for Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP in humans remains unknown .
Metabolism The metabolic fate of Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP in humans is unknown .
In an in vitro metabolic study using human hepatic microsome and recombinant CYP enzyme , CYP 2D6 was found to be the dominant enzyme for metabolism of Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP .
The genetic polymorphism of CYP2D6 that results in extensive - , poor - , intermediate - and ultrarapid metabolizer phenotypes could contribute to large inter - individual variability in Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP exposure .
Elimination Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP has a plasma elimination half - life of about 5 - 6 hours in humans .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For Consumers ( the general public ) : Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP Tablets are used for the prevention and treatment of nausea and vomiting , or dizziness associated with motion sickness .
For Health Professionals : Based on a review of Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP drug by the National Academy of Sciences – National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the indications of Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP as follows : 1 .
The prevention and treatment ( management ) of nausea and vomiting , and dizziness associated with motion sickness .
2 .
For the treatment of vertigo .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is contraindicated in individuals who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to it .
WARNINGS Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children under 12 years of age have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Due to its potential anticholinergic action , do not take unless directed by a doctor if you have a breathing problem such as asthma , emphysema , or chronic bronchitis , glaucoma , or difficulty in urination due to enlargement of the prostate gland .
Ask a doctor before use if you are taking sedatives or tranquilizers .
When using this product : 1 .
Do not exceed the recommended dosage .
2 .
May cause drowsiness .
3 .
Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug .
4 .
Since drowsiness may , on occasion , occur with use of this drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery .
Therefore patients are reminded caution when driving or operating machinery .
5 .
Alcohol , sedatives and tranquilizers may increase drowsiness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Call Poison Control at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 PRECAUTIONS Pediatric Use Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children under 12 years of age have not been done ; therefore , usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age unless directed by a doctor .
Pregnancy Use Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25 to 50 times the human dose .
Epidemiological studies in pregnant women , however , do not indicate that Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy .
Despite the animal findings , it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote .
Nevertheless , Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP or any other medication , should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary , and after speaking with a health professional .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Hepatic Impairment The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of meclizine has not been evaluated .
As Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP undergoes metabolism , hepatic impairment may result in increased systemic exposure of the drug .
Treatment with Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP should be administered with caution in patients with hepatic impairment .
Renal Impairment The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP has not been evaluated .
Due to a potential for drug / metabolite accumulation , Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP should be administered with caution in patients with renal impairment and in the elderly as renal function generally declines with age .
Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants , including alcohol , tranquilizers and sedatives .
( see WARNINGS ) Based on in vitro evaluation , Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP is metabolized by CYP2D6 .
Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between Meclizine Hydrochloride , USP and CYP2D6 inhibitors .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep out of reach of children .
In case of an overdose , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Call Poison Control at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction , drowsiness , dry mouth , headache , fatigue , vomiting and , on rare occasions , blurred vision have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ( DIRECTIONS ) Adults and children 12 years of age and over : Take 1 to 2 Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP Tablets ( 25 mg to 50 mg ) by mouth once daily , or as directed by a physician .
The initial dose of 25 mg to 50 mg of Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP Tablets should be taken one hour prior to travel for the prevention and treatment of motion sickness .
Thereafter , the dose may be repeated every 24 hours for the duration of the journey .
INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Croscarmellose Sodium , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , D & C Yellow # 10 , Aluminum Lake ( 15 - 20 % ) .
OTHER USEFUL INFORMATION Store at controlled room temperature 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
Protect from heat and humidity .
Use by expiration date on package .
HOW SUPPLIED Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP Tablets are available in 25 mg strengths , and is available in 8 and 16 count package sizes .
25 mg tablets ; Yellow ; Oval shaped ; Scored ; " TL121 " imprinted on each tablet Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP ; 8 Tablets : NDC 49467 - 124 - 08 Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP ; 16 Tablets : NDC 49467 - 124 - 16 Distributed by : Sunascen Therapeutics LLC Rockville , MD 20850 USA QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ?
Sunascen Therapeutics LLC PO Box 2773 Wilmington DE 19805 More information is available on the web at www . nausease . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Naus - Ease ® ( Meclizine Hydrochloride ) , USP ; Tablets 25 mg Each Antiemetic – Prevent and Treat : Nausea and Vomiting TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF CARTON IS OPENED OR IF BLISTER UNIT IS TORN , BROKEN OR SHOWS ANY SIGNS OF TAMPERING .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
