Drug Facts Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Famotidine USP 10 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain food and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to famotidine or other acid reducers Do not use • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools . These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating , or dizziness • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • frequent chest pain • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • unexplained weight loss • nausea or vomiting • stomach pain • kidney disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • your heartburn continues or worsens • you need to take this product for more than 14 days If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • adults and children 12 years and over : • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water .
Do not chew .
• to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water at any time from 15 to 60 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • do not use more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • read the directions and warnings before use • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) • protect from moisture Inactive ingredients carnauba wax , corn starch , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , red iron oxide , sodium starch glycolate , talc and titanium dioxide .
Questions or comments ?
call 1 - 855 - 274 - 4122 Tips for Managing Heartburn • Do not lie flat or bend over after eating • Do not wear tight - fitting clothing around the stomach • Do not eat before bedtime • Raise the head of your bed • Avoid heartburn - causing foods such as rich , spicy , fatty or fried foods , chocolate , caffeine , alcohol , and certain fruits and vegetables • Eat slowly and avoid big meals • If overweight , lose weight • Quit smoking JUST ONE TABLET prevents and relieves heartburn due to acid indigestion brought on by eating and drinking certain foods and beverages .
Do not use if carton is open or if printed foil seal under bottle cap is open or torn .
Dist .
by CAH , Dublin , OH 43017 1 - 800 - 200 - 6313 © 2020 CARDINAL HEALTH , LEADER , and LOGOs are trademarks of Cardinal Health .
Made in India Code : TS / DRUGS / 22 / 2009 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg ( 30 Tablets Container Label ) LEADERTM NDC 70000 - 0048 - 1 Original Strength Acid Reducer Famotidine Tablets USP , 10 mg | Acid Reducer Just One Tablet !
Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion 30 TABLETS 100 % Money SEE NEW WARNINGS Back Guarantee [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg ( 30 Tablets Container Carton Label ) LEADERTM NDC 70000 - 0048 - 1 Original Strength Acid Reducer Famotidine Tablets USP , 10 mg Acid Reducer Just One Tablet !
Prevents & Relieves Heartburn Due to Acid Indigestion Actual Size COMPARE TO ORIGINAL STRENGTH PEPCID ® AC active ingredient 30 TABLETS 100 % Money SEE NEW WARNINGS Back Guarantee [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
