ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Zinc Oxide 19 % PURPOSE Sunscreen USES • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If product is swallowed , get medical help or contact Poison Control Center right away .
DIRECTIONS • shake or knead before each use • apply generously and evenly to face and neck 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply • after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease the risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeve shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses • children under 6 months : Ask a doctor INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Water ( Aqua ) , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Coconut Alkanes , Cetearyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Coco - Glucoside , Lactobacillus Ferment , Camellia Sinensis ( Green Tea ) Leaf Extract , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Sprout Extract , Hydrolyzed Jojoba Esters , Butyrospermum Parkii Nut Extract , Caesalpinia Spinosa Fruit Pod Extract , Caprylhydroxamic Acid , Glyceryl Caprylate , Cetearyl Glucoside , Caprylyl / Capryl Glucoside , Coco - Caprylate / Caprate , Polyhydroxystearic Acid , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polyricinoleate , Isostearic Acid , Lecithin , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate , Sodium Phytate , Propylene Glycol , Xanthan Gum , Sclerotium Gum , Phenoxyethanol , Sodium Benzoate , Tocopherol OTHER INFORMATION • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS • 1 - 855 - 859 - 1600 ( 9 am – 5 pm ET ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
