Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Cimetidine 200 mg Purpose Acid reducer Uses • • relieves heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach • • prevents heartburn associated with acid indigestion and sour stomach brought on by eating or drinking certain foods and beverages Warnings Allergy alert : Do not use if you are allergic to cimetidine or other acid reducers Do not use • • if you have trouble or pain swallowing food , vomiting with blood , or bloody or black stools .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
See your doctor .
• • with other acid reducers Ask a doctor before use if you have • • frequent chest pain • • frequent wheezing , particularly with heartburn • • unexplained weight loss • • nausea or vomiting • • stomach pain • • had heartburn over 3 months .
This may be a sign of a more serious condition .
• • heartburn with lightheadedness , sweating or dizziness • • chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness of breath ; sweating ; pain spreading to arms , neck or shoulders ; or lightheadedness • • kidney disease • • liver disease Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking • • a prescription drug .
Acid reducers may interact with certain prescription drugs .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you need to take this product for more than 14 days • • stomach pain continues • • your heartburn continues or worsens If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • • adults and children 12 years and over : • • to relieve symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water • • to prevent symptoms , swallow 1 tablet with a glass of water right before or any time up to 30 minutes before eating food or drinking beverages that cause heartburn • • do not take more than 2 tablets in 24 hours • • children under 12 years : ask a doctor Other information • • store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch glycolate , titanium dioxide Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Principal Display Panel Compare to Tagamet ® HB 200 active ingredient H - E - B ® Heartburn Prevention Cimetidine Tablets , 200 mg Acid Reducer Just One Tablet Relieves and Prevents Heartburn and Acid Indigestion Take Anytime You Need It : • Before Meal • During Meal • After Meal actual size 60 TABLETS ( 60 DOSES ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
