1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % , is indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % , is a relatively selective prostaglandin E2 ( EP2 ) receptor agonist , indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in patients with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage The recommended dosage is one drop in the affected eye ( s ) once daily in the evening .
2 . 2 Administration Instructions Gently shake the bottle prior to administration .
If more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes apart .
Contact lenses should be removed prior to the administration of Omlonti , and may be reinserted 15 minutes after administration [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution : 0 . 002 % ( 0 . 02 mg / mL ) Ophthalmic solution containing 0 . 002 % ( 0 . 02 mg / mL ) of omidenepag isopropyl .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pigmentation ( 5 . 1 ) • Eyelash changes ( 5 . 2 ) • Ocular Inflammation ( 5 . 3 ) • Macular Edema ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Pigmentation Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % , is a prodrug of omidenepag , a relatively selective EP2 receptor agonist .
Pigmentation is expected to increase as long as omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution is administered .
The pigmentation change is due to increased melanin content in the melanocytes rather than to an increase in the number of melanocytes .
After discontinuation of Omlonti , pigmentation of the iris is likely to be permanent , while pigmentation of the periorbital tissue and eyelash changes are likely to be reversible in most patients .
Patients who receive prostaglandin analogs , including Omlonti , should be informed of the possibility of increased pigmentation , including permanent changes .
The long - term effects of increased pigmentation are not known .
Iris color change may not be noticeable for several months to years .
Typically , the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the periphery of the iris and the entire iris or parts of the iris become more brownish .
Neither nevi nor freckles of the iris appear to be affected by treatment .
While treatment with Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) , 0 . 002 % can be continued in patients who develop noticeably increased iris pigmentation , these patients should be examined regularly [ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
5 . 2 Eyelash Changes Omlonti may gradually change eyelashes and vellus hair in the treated eye .
These changes include increased length , thickness , and the number of lashes or hairs .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
5 . 3 Ocular Inflammation Ocular inflammation has been reported in patients taking Omlonti .
Omlonti should be used with caution in patients with active ocular inflammation , including iritis / uveitis .
5 . 4 Macular Edema Macular edema , including cystoid macular edema , has been reported during clinical trials in patients with pseudophakia receiving Omlonti .
Omlonti should be used with caution in aphakic patients , in pseudophakic patients , or in patients with known risk factors for macular edema .
5 . 5 Risk of Contamination and Potential Injury to the Eye Advise patients to avoid touching the tip of the bottle to the eye or any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Advise patients to not touch the tip to their eye to avoid the potential for injury to the eye .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Pigmentation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Eyelash Changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Ocular Inflammation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Macular Edema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 1 % are conjunctival hyperemia ( 9 % ) , photophobia ( 5 % ) , vision blurred ( 4 % ) , dry eye ( 3 % ) , instillation site pain ( 3 % ) , eye pain ( 2 % ) , ocular hyperemia ( 2 % ) , punctate keratitis ( 2 % ) , headache ( 2 % ) , eye irritation ( 1 % ) , and visual impairment ( 1 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Santen at 1 - 855 - 7 - SANTEN ( 855 - 772 - 6836 ) or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to Omlonti in 600 patients for up to 3 months .
The most common adverse reactions with incidence ≥ 1 % are conjunctival hyperemia ( 9 % ) , photophobia ( 5 % ) , vision blurred ( 4 % ) , dry eye ( 3 % ) , instillation site pain ( 3 % ) , eye pain ( 2 % ) , ocular hyperemia ( 2 % ) , punctate keratitis ( 2 % ) , headache ( 2 % ) , eye irritation ( 1 % ) , and visual impairment ( 1 % ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on the use of Omlonti in pregnant women .
In animal reproduction studies , subcutaneous administration of omidenepag isopropyl to pregnant rabbits throughout the period of organogenesis produced fetal skeletal anomalies at a dose of 24 times the clinical dose , based on estimated plasma C max .
Omidenepag isopropyl was not teratogenic in rats when administered subcutaneously at 1 mg / kg / day , 2 , 452 times the clinical dose , based on estimated plasma C max ( see Data ) .
Data Animal Data An embryofetal development study was conducted in pregnant rabbits administered omidenepag isopropyl once daily by subcutaneous injection at 0 . 008 , 0 . 08 , or 0 . 8 mg / kg / day from gestation Day 6 to 18 , a period which covers implantation and the period of organogenesis in rabbits .
Fetal skeletal anomalies ( thoracic misaligned centrum and hemivertebra , fused sternebra , absent rib ) were observed at 0 . 008 mg / kg / day ( 24 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose [ MRHOD ] , based on estimated plasma C max ) .
Additional fetal skeletal anomalies were observed at 0 . 08 mg / kg ( absent thoracic arch , fused rib ) and 0 . 8 mg / kg ( misaligned and misshapen cervical vertebrae ) , corresponding to 256 times and 3 , 696 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max , respectively .
Increases in preimplantation loss and post - implantation loss were observed at 0 . 8 mg / kg / day .
The rabbit maternal , No Observed Adverse Effect Level [ NOAEL ] was 0 . 8 mg / kg / day .
An embryofetal development study was conducted in pregnant rats administered omidenepag isopropyl once daily by subcutaneous injection at 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 , or 1 mg / kg / day from gestation Day 6 to 17 , to target the period of organogenesis .
Omidenepag isopropyl was not found to have any effect on embryo - fetal development in rats at up to 1 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 452 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The rat maternal NOAEL was 1 mg / kg / day .
In a pre / postnatal development study , treatment of pregnant rats with omidenepag isopropyl subcutaneously from gestation day 6 to lactation day 20 at 0 . 01 , 0 . 1 , or 1 mg / kg / day resulted in no adverse effects .
The NOAEL for pre - and postnatal development was 1 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 452 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of Omlonti in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
However , systemic exposure to omidenepag following topical ocular administration is low [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] , and it is not known whether measurable levels of omidenepag would be present in maternal milk following topical ocular administration .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for Omlonti and any unknown potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from Omlonti .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility There are no data on the effects of Omlonti on human fertility .
No impairment of fertility has been reported in animals receiving omidenepag isopropyl subcutaneously at doses up to 2 , 452 times the clinical dose based on estimated plasma C max [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Omlonti have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and other adult patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % , contains the prodrug form of the active omidenepag , a relatively selective prostaglandin EP2 receptor agonist with ocular hypotensive activity .
Omidenepag isopropyl is a white to light brown crystal or crystalline powder and practically insoluble in water .
Omidenepag isopropyl ' s chemical name is Glycine , N - [ 6 - [ [ [ [ 4 - ( 1 H - pyrazol - 1 - yl ) phenyl ] methyl ] ( 3 - pyridinylsulfonyl ) amino ] methyl ] - 2 - pyridinyl ] - , 1 - methylethyl ester and has the following structure : Structural Formula [ MULTIMEDIA ] Formula of the free base : C 26 H 28 N 6 O 4 S .
Molecular weight : 520 . 61 Omlonti appears as a clear , colorless solution .
It is supplied as a sterile , isotonic , buffered aqueous solution of omidenepag isopropyl with a target pH of 5 . 8 and an osmolality of approximately 285 mOsmol / kg .
Each mL of Omlonti contains : Active : 0 . 02 mg of omidenepag isopropyl .
Preservative : 0 . 005 % benzalkonium chloride .
Inactive ingredients : glycerin , polyoxyl 35 castor oil , sodium citrate , citric acid monohydrate , edetate disodium , sodium hydroxide and / or hydrochloric acid ( to adjust pH ) , and water for injection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Omidenepag is a relatively selective EP2 receptor agonist which decreases intraocular pressure ( IOP ) .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown at this time .
Elevated IOP represents a major risk factor for glaucomatous field loss .
The higher the level of IOP , the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Omlonti is absorbed through the cornea where prodrug omidenepag isopropyl is hydrolyzed to become biologically active metabolite , omidenepag .
After once daily ocular administration of one drop of omidenepag isopropyl 0 . 0025 % eye drops to both eyes in humans for 7 days , plasma concentrations of omidenepag reached C max at 10 - 15 minutes .
Systemic exposure was similar between days 1 and 7 , indicating no systemic accumulation .
Elimination Metabolism After topical ocular administration , omidenepag isopropyl is rapidly metabolized in the eye to omidenepag ( active moiety ) by carboxylesterase - 1 .
The pharmacologically active form , omidenepag is further metabolized by liver through oxidation , N - dealkylation , glucuronidation , sulfate conjugation or taurine conjugation .
Excretion In rats , 0 . 03 % 14 C - Omlonti was instilled in both eyes as a single dose ( 5 mcL / eye , 3 mcg / animal ) .
By 168 hours after ocular instillation , 89 % of the administered radioactive dose had been excreted .
Specifically , 83 % and 4 % of the administered radioactive dose were excreted in the feces and urine , respectively , and radioactivity in expired air was below the lower limit of quantitation .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Lifetime rodent studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of omidenepag isopropyl or omidenepag .
In rats dosed by subcutaneous injection daily for 26 weeks , nephroblastoma and a spermatic cord tumor were found at 0 . 003 mg / kg / day ( 33 times the RHOD based on the estimated area under the curve [ AUC ] ) .
Mammary adenocarcinoma and pituitary pars distalis adenomas were observed at 0 . 03 mg / kg / day ( 319 fold the RHOD based on the estimated AUC ) .
Mutagenesis Omidenepag was not mutagenic in the bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) test and the in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Omidenepag isopropyl was positive ( mutagenic and clastogenic ) without metabolic activation in the in vitro mouse lymphoma forward mutation assay .
[ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Impairment of Fertility In a rat fertility and early embryonic development study , daily subcutaneous doses of omidenepag isopropyl did not affect male or female fertility at doses up to 1 mg / kg / day ( 2 , 452 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The rabbit embryofetal development study administered omidenepag isopropyl to pregnant rabbits beginning on gestation day 6 , covering the period of implantation [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Preimplantation losses were observed at 0 . 8 mg / kg / day ( 3 , 696 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) .
The NOAEL for rabbit preimplantation loss was 0 . 08 mg / kg / day ( 256 times the MRHOD based on estimated plasma C max ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Nasal cavity respiratory epithelium metaplasia was observed in cynomolgus monkeys receiving unilateral topical ocular instillations of omidenepag isopropyl at 0 . 003 % ( 0 . 9 mcg / eye ) [ 1 . 07 fold the MRHOD , based on ocular dose comparison ] .
In a 13 - week monkey study , the 0 . 9 mcg / eye dose was associated with nasal cavity respiratory epithelial metaplasia , and increased nasal cavity goblet cell respiratory epithelium mucosa .
In a 39 - week monkey study , the 0 . 9 mcg / eye dose was associated with increased incidence and severity of nasal cavity respiratory epithelium metaplasia .
These findings were present in both the treated side and untreated contralateral side , and they were also observed in the vehicle group [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Omlonti was evaluated in three randomized and controlled clinical trials in subjects with open - angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension with average baseline IOP of 24 - 26 mm Hg .
The double - masked treatment duration was 3 months in all 3 studies .
The third study included a 9 - month open - label treatment period following the 3 - month double - masked treatment period .
In the three studies , IOP reductions were observed for all treatment arms .
In the Omlonti arm , the reduction in IOP ranged from 5 - 7 mm Hg across all three studies .
The corresponding reductions for the timolol and latanoprost arms were 5 - 7 mm Hg and 6 - 8 mm Hg , respectively .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Omlonti ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % , is supplied as a 2 . 5 mL sterile solution in 5 mL white low density polyethylene bottles with linear low density polyethylene dropper tips , high density polyethylene screw caps and tamper - evident low density polyethylene overcaps .
NDC 65086 - 002 - 05 Storage : Store unopened bottle ( s ) in the refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Once a bottle is opened for use , it can be stored for up to 31 days at up to 30 ° C ( 86 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Instructions for Use ) .
Potential for Pigmentation Patients should be advised about the potential for increased brown pigmentation of the iris , which may be permanent .
Patients should also be informed about the possibility of eyelid skin darkening , which is usually reversible after discontinuation of Omlonti .
Potential for Eyelash Changes Patients should also be informed of the possibility of eyelash and vellus hair changes in the treated eye during treatment with Omlonti .
These changes may result in a disparity between eyes in length , thickness , pigmentation , number of eyelashes or vellus hairs , and / or direction of eyelash growth .
Eyelash changes are usually reversible upon discontinuation of treatment .
Handling the Container Advise patients to avoid touching the tip of the bottle to the eye or any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Advise patients to not touch the tip to their eye to avoid the potential for injury to the eye .
The product should be refrigerated before opening , and once it is opened , it can be stored at room temperature for up to 31 days .
[ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
When to Seek Physician Advice Advise patients that if they develop a new ocular condition ( e . g . , trauma , infection , or inflammation ) , experience a sudden decrease in visual acuity , have ocular surgery , or develop any ocular reactions , particularly conjunctivitis and eyelid reactions , they should immediately seek their physician ' s advice concerning the continued use of Omlonti .
Use with Contact Lenses Contact lenses should be removed prior to administration of the solution .
Lenses may be reinserted 15 minutes after administration .
Use with Other Ophthalmic Drugs Advise patients that if more than one topical ophthalmic drug is being used , the drugs should be administered at least five ( 5 ) minutes apart [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Santen Inc .
Manufactured by : Woodstock Sterile Solutions , Inc .
Distributed by : Santen Inc .
6401 Hollis Street , Suite 125 Emeryville , CA 94608 United States INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OMLONTI ® [ om lon ' tee ] ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % for topical ophthalmic use Read this Instructions for Use before you start using Omlonti and each time you get refills .
There may be new and updated information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your healthcare provider about your medical condition or your treatment .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Parts of your Omlonti multi - dose bottle [ MULTIMEDIA ] Important information you need to know before using Omlonti • Omlonti is for use in the eye .
• Use Omlonti exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• After you remove the Omlonti multi - dose bottle from the carton , make sure the tamper - evident overcap is not broken .
If the tamper - evident overcap is broken , Omlonti may not be safe for you to use .
• If you use Omlonti with other eye medicines , you should wait at least 5 minutes between using Omlonti and the other medicines .
• If you wear contact lenses , remove your contact lenses before using Omlonti .
You should wait 15 minutes after using Omlonti before placing your contact lenses back in your eye .
• Call your healthcare provider right away if you develop new eye problems including : an eye injury , eye infection , eye pain , light sensitivity , blurry vision , decreased vision , swelling and redness of the eye , problems with your eyelids , changes in the appearance of your eyes , headache , or eye surgery .
• If you develop blurred vision or light sensitivity after using Omlonti , do not drive or operate heavy machinery until the symptoms disappear .
• Omlonti can cause color changes in your iris and eyelid and may change the length and color of your eyelashes .
Using Omlonti Follow Step 1 to Step 11 each time you use Omlonti .
Ask your healthcare provider for help if you do not understand how to use Omlonti .
Step 1 .
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water .
If you cannot wash your hands , you can clean your hands using hand sanitizer .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
Turn the tamper - evident overcap to the left to open the multi - dose bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
Remove the tamper - evident overcap and throw it away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Gently shake the bottle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Turn the inner screw cap to the left to remove it .
Do not throw the inner screw cap away .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
Pull down your lower eyelid with a clean finger .
The medicine will go into the space between your lower eyelid and your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 .
Tilt your head back and look up .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 .
Gently squeeze the multi - dose bottle to release 1 drop of the medicine in your eye .
Do not let the tip of the multi - dose bottle touch your eye or any other surfaces .
If a drop misses your eye , try again .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 .
Blink a few times so that the medicine spreads across your eye .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 .
After using Omlonti , gently close your eyelid and press the corner of your eye closest to your nose for 2 minutes .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 11 .
Repeat Step 6 to Step 10 for your other eye if you need to use drops in both eyes .
Storing Omlonti • Store unopened Omlonti in the refrigerator between 36 ° F to 46 ° F ( 2 ° C to 8 ° C ) .
• After opening , store Omlonti up to 31 days at room temperature between 68 ° F to 86 ° F ( 20 ° to 30 ° C ) .
• Do not use Omlonti if the expiration date ( EXP YYYY - MM ) on the outer carton and multi - dose bottle have passed .
The expiration date is the last day of that month .
• After removing the tamper - evident overcap , keep the multi - dose bottle closed with the inner screw cap on to avoid contamination .
• Keep Omlonti and all medicines out of the reach of children .
Additional Information • If you have questions about Omlonti , talk to your healthcare provider , go to the Santen ' s website ( https : / / www . santen . com / ) , or call Santen Medical Information : 855 - 7 - SANTEN ( 855 - 772 - 6836 ) .
Distributed by : Santen Incorporated 6401 Hollis St . , Suite 125 Emeryville , CA 94608 This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Approved : 9 / 2022 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 2 . 5 mL Bottle Carton NDC 65086 - 002 - 05 Santen OMLONTI ® ( omidenepag isopropyl ophthalmic solution ) 0 . 002 % FOR TOPICAL USE IN THE EYES STERILE RX ONLY 2 . 5 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
