Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each extended - release bi - layer tablet ) Purposes Dextromethorphan HBr 30 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 600 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help you get to sleep Warnings Do not use • for children under 12 years of age • if you are now taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before taking this product .
Ask a doctor before use if you have • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with smoking , asthma , chronic bronchitis , or emphysema • cough accompanied by too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product • do not use more than directed Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not crush , chew , or break tablet • take with a full glass of water • this product can be administered without regard for timing of meals • adults and children 12 years and older : 1 or 2 tablets every 12 hours ; not more than 4 tablets in 24 hours • children under 12 years of age : do not use Other information • store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer type B ; D & C yellow # 10 aluminum lake ; hypromellose , USP ; magnesium stearate , NF ; microcrystalline cellulose , NF ; sodium starch glycolate , NF Questions ?
1 - 866 - MUCINEX ( 1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : RB Health ( US ) Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 Made in England PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 Tablet Blister Pack Carton NDC 63824 - 056 - 32 Mucinex ® DM 600 mg guaifenesin & 30 mg dextromethorphan HBr extended - release bi - layer tablets EXPECTORANT & COUGH SUPPRESSANT 12 HOUR ® • ✓ Controls Cough • ✓ Thins and Loosens Mucus • ✓ Immediate and Extended Release 20 EXTENDED - RELEASE BI - LAYER TABLETS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
