Active Ingredient ( s ) Menthol 1 % .
Purpose : Topical Analgesic Purpose Topical Analgesic , Gel Use For temporary relief of pain and itching associated with minor burns , sunburn , minor cuts , scrapes , insect bites or minor skin irritation .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from fire or flames .
Avoid Contact with eyes .
Do not bandage tightly .
Do not apply over large areas of the body .
Do not use • on children under 16 years of age except on the advice of a physician .
When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Incase accidental ingestion , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions Adults and children 16 years of age and older : Wash the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Do not bandage tightly or apply to wounds or damaged skin .
Children under 16 yeats of age : consult a doctor .
Other information • Store between 15 - 30 C ( 59 - 86 F ) • Do not expose to excessive heat .
Inactive ingredients Arnica Extract , Camphor , Carbomer , Deionized Water , DMDM Hydatoin , Ethyl Alcohol , Eucalyptus Oil , Isopropyl Alcohol , Nonoxynol - 9 , polysorbate 20 , propyleneglycol , Tea Tree Oil , Trirthanolamine .
Package Label - Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] 141 g [ MULTIMEDIA ]
