Carbamide Peroxide 15 % Sodium Fluoride 0 . 25 % Povidone ( K90 ) , Anhydrous Ethanol , Hydroxyethyl Cellulose , Glycerin , Purified Water , Monobasic Potassium Phosphate , Sodium Hydroxide , L - Menthol , Potassium Nitrate Whitening of discolored teeth Keep gel out of reach of small children .
1 .
Gingival and general oral heath should be confirmed before treatment .
2 .
Brush your teeth before treatment .
3 .
Follow your dentist ’ s instructions on how to load gel into your custom whitening tray .
Use no more than 1 / 3 to 1 / 2 of the syringe per tray .
4 .
Insert whitening tray in the mouth over the teeth .
Seat the tray firmly agains the teeth .
Remove excess gel with clean finger or soft toothbrush .
( Rinse twice ; do not swallow rinsed gel . )
5 .
Unless directed otherwise by your dentist , wear Dr . Whitiss 10 % for 8 - 10 hours or overnight , Dr . Whitiss 15 % for 4 - 6 hours , Dr . Whitiss20 % for 2 - 4 hours , and Dr . Whitiss 35 % for 30 minutes .
6 .
If significant sensitivity occurs , stop treatment and consult dentist .
1 .
Products containing peroxides are not recommended for children under the age of 18 and pregnant or lactating women .
2 .
Regular dental checkups and cleanings are important before and after bleaching to maintain a healthy smile .
3 .
Do not use this product if you are allergic to any of the ingredients .
4 .
If you have any questions regarding the appropriate use of this product , including how long it will take to bleach your teeth , please consult a dentist as soon as possible .
5 .
If irritation occurs such as redness , soreness , or swelling of the gums or mouth , discontinue use and consult a dental professional or physician .
6 .
Do not swallow .
If a significant amount is swallowed , please call Poison Control immediately .
7 .
Do not use tobacco , and other products can restain your teeth over time .
Should this occur , the teeth can be rewhitened within a few nights using gel .
8 .
Crowns , bridges , partial dentures , veneers , and composite fillings will not bleach .
9 .
Keep gel out of reach of small children .
10 .
Store bleach out of the sun and heat .
Refrigeration recommended .
Do not freeze .
for dental use only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
