Rx only DESCRIPTION Hydroxyzine pamoate , USP is designated chemically as 1 - ( p - chlorobenzhydryl ) 4 - [ 2 - ( 2 - hydroxyethoxy ) ethyl ] diethylenediamine salt of 1 , 1 ′ - methylene bis ( 2 hydroxy - 3 - naphthalene carboxylic acid ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C 21 H 27 ClN 2 O 2 • C 23 H 16 O 6 M . W . 763 . 27 Hydroxyzine pamoate capsules , USP are administered in doses equivalent to 25 mg , 50 mg or 100 mg of hydroxyzine hydrochloride .
In addition , each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , and pregelatinized corn starch .
The 25 mg also contains anhydrous lactose .
The 50 mg and 100 mg also contain lactose monohydrate .
The capsule shell ingredients for the 25 mg capsule are D & C Red No . 28 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The 50 mg capsule shell contains D & C Red No . 33 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The 100 mg capsule shell contains D & C Red No . 28 , D & C Red No . 33 , D & C Yellow No . 10 , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , gelatin , and titanium dioxide .
The edible imprinting ink on the 25 mg , 50 mg and 100 mg capsules contains black iron oxide , D & C Yellow No . 10 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 aluminum lake , FD & C Blue No . 2 aluminum lake , FD & C Red No . 40 aluminum lake , propylene glycol , and shellac glaze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydroxyzine pamoate is unrelated chemically to the phenothiazines , reserpine , meprobamate , or the benzodiazepines .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is not a cortical depressant , but its action may be due to a suppression of activity in certain key regions of the subcortical area of the central nervous system .
Primary skeletal muscle relaxation has been demonstrated experimentally .
Bronchodilator activity , and antihistaminic and analgesic effects have been demonstrated experimentally and confirmed clinically .
An antiemetic effect , both by the apomorphine test and the veriloid test , has been demonstrated .
Pharmacological and clinical studies indicate that hydroxyzine in therapeutic dosage does not increase gastric secretion or acidity and in most cases has mild antisecretory activity .
Hydroxyzine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and hydroxyzine pamoate ' s clinical effects are usually noted within 15 to 30 minutes after oral administration .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested .
Useful in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus .
As a sedative when used as premedication and following general anesthesia , hydroxyzine may potentiate meperidine ( Demerol ® ) and barbiturates , so their use in pre - anesthetic adjunctive therapy should be modified on an individual basis .
Atropine and other belladonna alkaloids are not affected by the drug .
Hydroxyzine is not known to interfere with the action of digitalis in any way and it may be used concurrently with this agent .
The effectiveness of hydroxyzine as an antianxiety agent for long - term use , that is , more than 4 months , has not been assessed by systematic clinical studies .
The physician should reassess periodically the usefulness of the drug for the individual patient .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydroxyzine , when administered to the pregnant mouse , rat , and rabbit , induced fetal abnormalities in the rat and mouse at doses substantially above the human therapeutic range .
Clinical data in human beings are inadequate to establish safety in early pregnancy .
Until such data are available , hydroxyzine is contraindicated in early pregnancy .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with a prolonged QT interval .
Hydroxyzine pamoate is contraindicated for patients who have shown a previous hypersensitivity to any component of this medication .
Hydroxyzine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to hydroxyzine products , and in patients with known hypersensitivity to cetirizine hydrochloride or levocetirizine hydrochloride .
WARNINGS Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are so excreted , hydroxyzine should not be given to nursing mothers .
PRECAUTIONS THE POTENTIATING ACTION OF HYDROXYZINE MUST BE CONSIDERED WHEN THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DEPRESSANTS SUCH AS NARCOTICS , NON - NARCOTIC ANALGESICS AND BARBITURATES .
Therefore , when central nervous system depressants are administered concomitantly with hydroxyzine , their dosage should be reduced .
Since drowsiness may occur with use of the drug , patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery while taking hydroxyzine pamoate .
Patients should be advised against the simultaneous use of other CNS depressant drugs , and cautioned that the effect of alcohol may be increased .
QT Prolongation / Torsade de Pointes ( TdP ) Cases of QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes have been reported during postmarketing use of hydroxyzine .
The majority of reports occurred in patients with other risk factors for QT prolongation / TdP ( pre - existing heart disease , electrolyte imbalances or concomitant arrhythmogenic drug use ) .
Therefore , hydroxyzine should be used with caution in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation , congenital long QT syndrome , a family history of long QT syndrome , other conditions that predispose to QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia , as well as recent myocardial infarction , uncompensated heart failure , and bradyarrhythmias .
Caution is recommended during the concomitant use of drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
These include Class 1 A ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide ) or Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol ) antiarrhythmics , certain antipsychotics ( e . g . , ziprasidone , iloperidone , clozapine , quetiapine , chlorpromazine ) , certain antidepressants ( e . g . , citalopram , fluoxetine ) , certain antibiotics ( e . g . , azithromycin , erythromycin , clarithromycin , gatifloxacin , moxifloxacin ) ; and others ( e . g . , pentamidine , methadone , ondansetron , droperidol ) .
Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) Hydroxyzine may rarely cause acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis ( AGEP ) , a serious skin reaction characterized by fever and numerous small , superficial , non - follicular , sterile pustules , arising within large areas of edematous erythema .
Inform patients about the signs of AGEP , and discontinue hydroxyzine at the first appearance of a skin rash , worsening of pre - existing skin reactions which hydroxyzine may be used to treat , or any other sign of hypersensitivity .
If signs or symptoms suggest AGEP , use of hydroxyzine should not be resumed and alternative therapy should be considered .
Avoid cetirizine or levocetirizine in patients who have experienced AGEP or other hypersensitivity reactions with hydroxyzine , due to the risk of cross - sensitivity .
Geriatric Use A determination has not been made whether controlled clinical studies of hydroxyzine pamoate included sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to define a difference in response from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
The extent of renal excretion of hydroxyzine pamoate has not been determined .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selections .
Sedating drugs may cause confusion and over sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydroxyzine pamoate and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Side effects reported with the administration of hydroxyzine pamoate are usually mild and transitory in nature .
Skin and Appendages Oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride is associated with Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) and fixed drug eruptions in postmarketing reports .
Anticholinergic Dry mouth .
Central Nervous System Drowsiness is usually transitory and may disappear in a few days of continued therapy or upon reduction of the dose .
Involuntary motor activity , including rare instances of tremor and convulsions , has been reported , usually with doses considerably higher than those recommended .
Clinically significant respiratory depression has not been reported at recommended doses .
Cardiac System QT prolongation , Torsade de Pointes .
In postmarketing experience , the following additional undesirable effects have been reported : Body as a Whole allergic reaction .
Nervous System headache .
Psychiatric hallucination .
Skin and Appendages pruritus , rash , urticaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva at 1 - 888 - 838 - 2872 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE The most common manifestation of overdosage of hydroxyzine pamoate is hypersedation .
Other reported signs and symptoms were convulsions , stupor , nausea and vomiting .
As in the management of overdosage with any drug , it should be borne in mind that multiple agents may have been taken .
If vomiting has not occurred spontaneously , it should be induced .
Immediate gastric lavage is also recommended .
General supportive care , including frequent monitoring of the vital signs and close observation of the patient , is indicated .
Hypotension , though unlikely , may be controlled with intravenous fluids and vasopressors ( do not use epinephrine as hydroxyzine counteracts its pressor action ) .
Caffeine and Sodium Benzoate Injection , USP , may be used to counteract central nervous system depressant effects .
Hydroxyzine overdose may cause QT prolongation and Torsade de Pointes .
ECG monitoring is recommended in cases of hydroxyzine overdose .
There is no specific antidote .
It is doubtful that hemodialysis would be of any value in the treatment of overdosage with hydroxyzine .
However , if other agents such as barbiturates have been ingested concomitantly , hemodialysis may be indicated .
There is no practical method to quantitate hydroxyzine in body fluids or tissue after its ingestion or administration .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested : in adults , 50 to 100 mg four times a day ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
For use in the management of pruritus due to allergic conditions such as chronic urticaria and atopic and contact dermatoses , and in histamine - mediated pruritus : in adults , 25 mg three times a day or four times a day . ; children under 6 years , 50 mg daily in divided doses ; and over 6 years , 50 to 100 mg daily in divided doses .
As a sedative when used as a premedication and following general anesthesia : 50 to 100 mg in adults , and 0 . 6 mg / kg in children .
When treatment is initiated by the intramuscular route of administration , subsequent doses may be administered orally .
As with all medications , the dosage should be adjusted according to the patient ’ s response to therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydroxyzine pamoate capsules , USP ( hydroxyzine pamoate , USP equivalent to hydroxyzine hydrochloride ) , 100 mg are available as light yellow opaque cap and pink opaque body filled with yellow powder , imprinted in black ink stylized “ barr ” over “ 324 ” on one piece and “ 100 ” on the other piece , packaged in NDC : 70518 - 2769 - 00 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure ( as required ) .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Repackaged and Distributed By : Remedy Repack , Inc .
625 Kolter Dr . Suite # 4 Indiana , PA 1 - 724 - 465 - 8762 DRUG : Hydroxyzine Pamoate GENERIC : Hydroxyzine Pamoate DOSAGE : CAPSULE ADMINSTRATION : ORAL NDC : 70518 - 2769 - 0 COLOR : yellow SHAPE : CAPSULE SCORE : No score SIZE : 19 mm IMPRINT : barr ; 324 ; 100 PACKAGING : 30 in 1 BLISTER PACK ACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • HYDROXYZINE PAMOATE 100 mg in 1 INACTIVE INGREDIENT ( S ) : • CROSCARMELLOSE SODIUM • MAGNESIUM STEARATE • STARCH , CORN • LACTOSE MONOHYDRATE • D & C RED NO . 28 • D & C RED NO . 33 • D & C YELLOW NO . 10 • FD & C BLUE NO . 1 • FD & C RED NO . 40 • GELATIN • TITANIUM DIOXIDE • FERROSOFERRIC OXIDE • FD & C BLUE NO . 2 • INDIGOTINDISULFONATE SODIUM • PROPYLENE GLYCOL • SHELLAC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
