Drug Facts Active ingredient Benzoyl Peroxide 2 . 5 % Purpose Acne Treatment Uses • for the treatment of acne • clears acne blemishes • helps prevent new blemishes from forming .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • avoid unnecessary sun exposure and use a sunscreen • avoid contact with the eyes , lips and mouth • avoid contact with hair and dyed fabric , which may be bleached by the product • skin irritation may occur , characterized by redness , burning , itching , peeling or possibly swelling .
Irritation may be reduced by using the product less frequently or in a lower concentration .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • irritation becomes severe .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • clean the skin thoroughly before applying the product • cover the entire affected area with a thin layer 1 to 3 times daily • because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with 1 application daily , then gradually increase 2 to 3 times daily if needed or directed by a doctor • if bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day • if going outside , apply sunscreen after using this product .
If irritation or sensitivity develops , stop use and ask a doctor .
Other information • store at room temperature • keep carton for important information .
Inactive ingredients : water , olive oil glycereth - 8 esters , carbomer , aloe barbadensis leaf juice * , sodium hydroxide , phenoxyethanol .
* Certified Organic Ingredient - Mayacert Certifier Questions ?
1 - 800 - 279 - 7282 M - F 8 am - 4 pm PST or www . triderma . com For Healthier Looking Skin Clears acne Helps prevent new blemishes from forming Dermatologist Tested • AP4 ® BOTANICAL • ALOE VERA COMPLEX Acne Spot Treatment works quickly to clear acne blemishes and help prevent new blemishes from forming .
• Helps keep skin clear • Purifies pores • Pores look smaller Made with acne fighting Benzoyl Peroxide , this powerful serum delivers results for a clear and healthy looking complexion .
AP4 ® Botanical Aloe Complex is a proprietary soothing botanical blend • Non - Greasy • No Added Fragrance or Parabens EXPERTS IN SKIN HEALING SINCE 1992 TriDerma MD ® provides healing solutions for irritated skin without harmful side effects .
It all began after one woman struggled to find safe and effective healing for her own skin problem .
This journey led to the creation of our proprietary AP4 ® Organic Aloe * complex which is key to all our products .
QUALITY YOU CAN FEEL , RESULTS YOU CAN SEE ® Each product is made using this powerful complex plus nature ' s best botanicals and clinically proven ingredients .
We are passionate in our pursuit to create fast healing products that work .
MADE IN THE USA Maximum Strength Healing Botanicals Dist by : Genuine Virgin Aloe Corp .
Corona , CA 92879 © 2019 0819 packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
