Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc Oxide 12 % Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Purpose Sunscreen Use Helps prevent sunburn • If used as directed with other sun protection measures , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask physician if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Apply to face and neck , avoiding the eye area .
Wait at least 30 minutes before sun exposure , or as directed by a physician .
Reapply after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating .
Reapply immediately after towel drying at least every 2 hours .
Precautions • Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a broad spectrum value of SPF 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Children under 6 months of age : Ask a physician .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Cyclopentasiloxane , Niacinamide ( Vitamin B3 ) , Oleth - 3 Phosphate , Octyldodecyl Neopentanoate , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Polyisobutene , PEG - 7 Trimethylolpropane Coconut Ether , Glycerin , Tocopheryl Acetate ( Vitamin E ) , Polygonum Aviculare ( Knotweed ) Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate ( Hyaluronic Acid ) , Disodium EDTA , Sodium Hydroxide , Citric Acid , Phenoxyethanol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Polyglyceryl - 3 Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Dimethicone , Triethoxysilylethyl Polydimethylsiloxyethyl Hexyl Dimethicone , Triethoxycaprylylsilane brand MD ® SKIN CARE SUN DEFENSE medical grade √ Fast - absorbing SPF features a high level of Niacinamide √ Oil - free and lightweight brandMD ® Chatsworth , CA 91311 www . brandMD . com Toll Free : ( 877 ) 252 - 7546 Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
