WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptives ( COC ) use .
This risk increases with age , particularly in women over 35 years of age , and with the number of cigarettes smoked .
For this reason , COCs should not be used by women who are over 35 years of age and smoke .
[ See CONTRAINDICATIONS ( 4 ) . ]
WARNING : CIGARETTE SMOKING AND SERIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR EVENTS See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning • Women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use LoSeasonique .
( 4 ) • Cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from combination oral contraceptive ( COC ) use .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE LoSeasonique ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) is indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
LoSeasonique is an estrogen / progestin COC indicated for use by women to prevent pregnancy .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one tablet by mouth at the same time every day .
The dosage of LoSeasonique is one orange tablet containing levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by one yellow ethinyl estradiol tablet for 7 days .
To achieve maximum contraceptive effectiveness , LoSeasonique must be taken exactly as directed and at intervals not exceeding 24 hours .
Instruct the patient to begin taking LoSeasonique on the first Sunday after the onset of menstruation .
If menstruation begins on a Sunday , the first orange tablet is taken that day .
One orange tablet should be taken daily for 84 consecutive days , followed by one yellow tablet for 7 consecutive days .
A non - hormonal back - up method of contraception ( such as condoms or spermicide ) should be used until an orange tablet has been taken daily for 7 consecutive days .
A scheduled period should occur during the 7 days that the yellow tablets are taken .
Begin the next and all subsequent 91 - day cycles without interruption on the same day of the week ( Sunday ) on which the patient began her first dose of LoSeasonique , following the same schedule : 84 days taking an orange tablet followed by 7 days taking a yellow tablet .
If the patient does not immediately start her next pill pack , she should protect herself from pregnancy by using a non - hormonal back - up method of contraception until she has taken an orange tablet daily for 7 consecutive days .
If unscheduled spotting or bleeding occurs , instruct the patient to continue on the same regimen .
If the bleeding is persistent or prolonged , advise the patient to consult her healthcare provider .
For patient instructions regarding missed pills , see PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION ( 17 . 2 ) .
For postpartum women who are not breastfeeding , start LoSeasonique no earlier than four to six weeks postpartum .
If the patient starts on LoSeasonique postpartum and has not yet had a period , evaluate for possible pregnancy , and instruct her to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken an orange tablet for 7 consecutive days .
Take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day for 91 days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS LoSeasonique tablets are available in Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing a 13 - week supply of tablets : 84 orange tablets , each containing 0 . 1 mg of levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg of ethinyl estradiol .
The orange tablets are round , film - coated , unscored tablets with a debossed stylized b on one side and 28 on the other side .
The yellow tablets are round , film - coated , unscored tablet with a debossed stylized b on one side and 556 on the other side .
LoSeasonique consists of 84 orange tablets containing 0 . 1 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Do not prescribe LoSeasonique to women who are known to have the following conditions : • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases .
Examples include women who are known to : • Smoke , if over age 35 • Have deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism , now or in the past • Have cerebrovascular disease • Have coronary artery disease • Have thrombogenic valvular or thrombogenic rhythm diseases of the heart ( for example , subacute bacterial endocarditis with valvular disease , or atrial fibrillation ) • Have hypercoagulopathies • Have uncontrolled hypertension • Have diabetes with vascular disease • Have headaches with focal neurological symptoms or have migraine headaches with or without aura if over age 35 • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer , now or in the past • Liver tumors , benign or malignant , or liver disease • Pregnancy , because there is no reason to use OCs during pregnancy • A high risk of arterial or venous thrombotic diseases ( 4 ) • Breast cancer or other estrogen - or progestin - sensitive cancer ( 4 ) • Liver tumors or liver disease ( 4 ) • Pregnancy ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Vascular risks : Stop LoSeasonique if a thrombotic event occurs .
Stop LoSeasonique at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery .
Start LoSeasonique no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
( 5 . 1 ) • Liver disease : Discontinue LoSeasonique if jaundice occurs .
( 5 . 3 ) • High blood pressure : Do not prescribe LoSeasonique for women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease .
( 5 . 4 ) • Carbohydrate and lipid metabolic effects : Monitor prediabetic and diabetic women taking LoSeasonique .
Consider an alternate contraceptive method for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
( 5 . 6 ) • Headache : Evaluate significant change in headaches and discontinue LoSeasonique if indicated .
( 5 . 7 ) • Uterine bleeding : Evaluate irregular bleeding or amenorrhea .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Vascular Events Stop COCs if an arterial or deep venous thrombotic event occurs .
Although use of COCs increases the risk of venous thromboembolism , pregnancy increases the risk of venous thromboembolism as much or more than the use of COCs .
The risk of venous thromboembolism in women using COCs is 3 to 9 per 10 , 000 woman - years .
Use of COCs also increases the risk of arterial thromboses such as strokes and myocardial infarctions , especially in women with other risk factors for these events .
Use of LoSeasonique provides women with more hormonal exposure on a yearly basis than conventional monthly oral contraceptives containing the same strength synthetic estrogens and progestins ( an additional 9 and 13 weeks of exposure to progestin and estrogen , respectively , per year . )
If feasible , stop COCs at least 4 weeks before and through 2 weeks after major surgery or other surgeries known to have an elevated risk of thromboembolism .
Start COCs no earlier than 4 weeks after delivery , in women who are not breastfeeding .
The risk of postpartum thromboembolism decreases after the third postpartum week , whereas the risk of ovulation increases after the third postpartum week .
Stop COCs if there is unexplained loss of vision , proptosis , diplopia , papilledema , or retinal vascular lesions .
Evaluate for retinal vein thrombosis immediately .
5 . 2 Carcinoma of the Breast and Cervix Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use COCs because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive .
There is substantial evidence that COCs do not increase the incidence of breast cancer .
Although some past studies have suggested that COCs might increase the incidence of breast cancer , more recent studies have not confirmed such findings .
Some studies suggest that COCs are associated with an increase in the risk of cervical cancer or intraepithelial neoplasia .
However , there is controversy about the extent to which these findings are due to differences in sexual behavior and other factors .
5 . 3 Liver Disease Discontinue COCs if jaundice develops .
Steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
Hepatic adenomas are associated with COC use .
An estimate of the attributable risk is 3 . 3 cases / 100 , 000 COC users .
Rupture of hepatic adenomas may cause death through intra - abdominal hemorrhage .
Studies have shown an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma in long - term ( > 8 years ) COC users .
However , the attributable risk of liver cancers in COC users is less than one case per million users .
Oral contraceptive - related cholestasis may occur in women with a history of pregnancy - related cholestasis .
Women with a history of COC - related cholestasis may have the condition recur with subsequent COC use .
5 . 4 High Blood Pressure For women with well - controlled hypertension , monitor blood pressure and stop COCs if blood pressure rises significantly .
Women with uncontrolled hypertension or hypertension with vascular disease should not use COCs .
An increase in blood pressure has been reported in women taking COCs , and this increase is more likely in older women and with extended duration of use .
The incidence of hypertension increases with increasing concentration of progestin .
5 . 5 Gallbladder Disease Studies suggest a small increased relative risk of developing gallbladder disease among COC users .
5 . 6 Carbohydrate and Lipid Metabolic Effects Carefully monitor prediabetic and diabetic women who are taking COCs .
COCs may decrease glucose tolerance in a dose - related fashion .
Consider alternative contraception for women with uncontrolled dyslipidemias .
A small proportion of women will have adverse lipid changes while on COCs .
5 . 7 Headache If a woman taking COCs develops new headaches that are recurrent , persistent , or severe , evaluate the cause and discontinue COCs if indicated .
5 . 8 Bleeding Irregularities Unscheduled ( breakthrough ) bleeding and spotting sometimes occur in patients on COCs , especially during the first 3 months of use .
If bleeding persists , check for causes such as pregnancy or malignancy .
If pathology and pregnancy are excluded , bleeding irregularities may resolve over time or with a change to a different COC product .
When prescribing LoSeasonique , the convenience of fewer planned menses ( 4 per year instead of 13 per year ) should be weighed against the inconvenience of increased unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting .
The clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy of LoSeasonique also assessed unscheduled bleeding .
The participants in this 12 - month clinical trial ( N = 2 , 185 ) completed the equivalent of over 20 , 000 28 - day cycles of exposure and were composed primarily of women who had used OCs previously ( 89 % ) , as opposed to new users ( 11 % ) .
A total of 209 subjects ( 9 . 6 % ) discontinued LoSeasonique , at least in part , due to bleeding and / or spotting .
Scheduled ( withdrawal ) bleeding and / or spotting remained fairly constant over time , with an average of 2 - 3 days of bleeding and / or spotting per each 91 - day cycle .
Unscheduled bleeding and unscheduled spotting decreased over successive 91 - day cycles .
Table 1 below presents the number of days with unscheduled bleeding in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 2 presents the number of days with unscheduled spotting in treatment cycles 1 and 4 .
Table 1 : Total Number of Days with Unscheduled Bleeding91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 0 5 11 7 . 5 2 . 5 4 th 0 0 5 3 . 5 1 . 2 Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled bleeding Table 2 : Total Number of Days with Unscheduled Spotting91 - Day Treatment Cycle Days per 84 - Day Interval Days per 28 - Day Interval Q1 Median Q3 Mean Mean 1 st 3 10 19 14 . 0 4 . 7 4 th 0 3 10 6 . 5 2 . 2 Q1 = Quartile 1 : 25 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Median : 50 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Q3 = Quartile 3 : 75 % of women had ≤ this number of days of unscheduled spotting Figure 1 shows the percentage of LoSeasonique subjects participating in the primary clinical trial with ≥ 7 days or ≥ 20 days of unscheduled bleeding and / or spotting , or just unscheduled bleeding , during each 91 - day treatment cycle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Amenorrhea sometimes occurs in women who are using COCs .
Pregnancy should be ruled out in the event of amenorrhea .
Some women may encounter amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea after stopping COCs , especially when such a condition was pre - existent .
5 . 9 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of COCs may change the results of some laboratory tests , such as coagulation factors , lipids , glucose tolerance , and binding proteins .
Women on thyroid hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone because serum concentrations of thyroid binding globulin increase with use of COCs .
5 . 10 Monitoring A woman who is taking COCs should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions with the use of COCs are discussed elsewhere in the labeling : • Serious cardiovascular events and smoking [ see BOXED WARNING ] • Vascular events [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Liver disease [ see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 3 ) ] Adverse reactions commonly reported by COC users are : • Irregular uterine bleeding • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache The most common adverse reactions for COCs are irregular uterine bleeding , nausea , breast tenderness , and headaches .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Women ’ s Health at 1 - 800 - 222 - 0190 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to the rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The clinical trial that evaluated the safety and efficacy of LoSeasonique was a 12 - month , multicenter , non - comparative open - label study , which enrolled women aged 18 - 41 , of whom 2 , 185 took at least one dose of LoSeasonique .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Study Discontinuation : 11 % of the women discontinued from the clinical trial due to an adverse reaction ; the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding , headache , mood changes , nausea , acne , and weight gain .
Common Treatment - Emergent Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 5 % of women ) : headaches ( 33 % ) ; irregular and / or heavy uterine bleeding ( 13 % ) , dysmenorrhea ( 11 % ) , nausea and / or vomiting ( 11 % ) , back pain ( 8 % ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with LoSeasonique .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , including CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of COCs or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Counsel patients to use a back - up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
( 7 ) 7 . 1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co - Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize contraceptive hormones , counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception .
Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones , and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives or increase breakthrough bleeding .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate HIV protease inhibitors : Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the estrogen and progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration of HIV protease inhibitors .
Antibiotics : There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics , but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently - used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations .
7 . 2 Increase in Plasma Levels of Estradiol Associated with Co - Administered Drugs Co - administration of atorvastatin and certain COCs containing ethinyl estradiol increase AUC values for ethinyl estradiol by approximately 20 % .
Ascorbic acid and acetaminophen may increase plasma ethinyl estradiol levels , possibly by inhibition of conjugation .
CYP3A4 inhibitors such as itraconazole or ketoconazole may increase plasma hormone levels .
7 . 3 Changes in Plasma Levels of Co - Administered Drugs Combination OCs containing some synthetic estrogens ( e . g . , ethinyl estradiol ) may inhibit the metabolism of other compounds .
Combination OCs have been shown to significantly decrease plasma concentrations of lamotrigine likely due to induction of lamotrigine glucuronidation .
This may reduce seizure control ; therefore , dosage adjustments of lamotrigine may be necessary .
Consult the labeling of the concurrently - used drug to obtain further information about interactions with COCs or the potential for enzyme alterations .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing : Not recommended for nursing mothers ; can decrease milk production ( 8 . 3 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy There is little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who inadvertently use COCs during early pregnancy .
Epidemiologic studies and meta - analyses have not found an increased risk of genital or non - genital birth defects ( including cardiac anomalies and limb reduction defects ) following exposure to low dose COCs prior to conception or during early pregnancy .
The administration of COCs to induce withdrawal bleeding should not be used as a test for pregnancy .
Combination OCs should not be used during pregnancy to treat threatened or habitual abortion .
Women who do not breastfeed may start COCs no earlier than four to six weeks postpartum .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers When possible , advise the nursing mother to use other forms of contraception until she has weaned her child .
Estrogen - containing OCs can reduce milk production in breastfeeding mothers .
This is less likely to occur once breastfeeding is well established ; however , it can occur at any time in some women .
Small amounts of estrogen and progestin from low dose COCs are present in breast milk , but these doses have not produced adverse effects in breastfeeding infants .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of LoSeasonique have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents under the age of 18 as for users 18 years and older .
Use of this product before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product has not been studied in postmenopausal women and is not indicated in this population .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of serious ill effects from overdose , including ingestion by children .
Overdosage may cause withdrawal bleeding in females and nausea .
11 DESCRIPTION LoSeasonique ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol and ethinyl estradiol ) tablets provide an oral contraceptive regimen of 84 orange tablets each containing 0 . 1 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , followed by 7 yellow tablets each containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
The structural formulas for the active components are : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Levonorgestrel is chemically 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one , 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - , ( - ) - .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Ethinyl Estradiol is 19 - Norpregna - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 ) - trien - 20 - yne - 3 , 17 - diol , ( 17α ) - .
Inactive ingredients for the orange tablets include FD & C Yellow # 6 ( Sunset Yellow ) aluminum lake , hypromellose , lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , corn starch , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Inactive ingredients for the yellow tablets include anhydrous lactose , FD & C Yellow # 10 aluminum lake , FD & C Yellow # 6 ( Sunset Yellow ) aluminum lake , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polacrilin potassium , polyethylene glycol , polysorbate 80 and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Combination OCs lower the risk of becoming pregnant primarily by suppressing ovulation .
Other possible mechanisms may include cervical mucus changes that inhibit sperm penetration and endometrial changes that reduce the likelihood of implantation .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption No specific investigation of the absolute bioavailability of LoSeasonique in humans has been conducted .
However , literature indicates that levonorgestrel is rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration ( bioavailability nearly 100 % ) and is not subject to first - pass metabolism .
Ethinyl estradiol is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract but , due to first - pass metabolism in gut mucosa and liver , the systemic bioavailability of ethinyl estradiol is approximately 43 % .
The mean plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of LoSeasonique following a single oral dose of three levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol combination tablets in normal healthy women under fasting conditions are reported in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetic Parameters Following a Single Dose Administration of Three Tablets of LoSeasonique in 30 Healthy Women under Fasting Conditions AUC0 - ∞ Cmax Tmax T ½ Levonorgestrel 76 . 5 ± 24 . 9 ng * hr / mL 6 . 0 ± 1 . 6 ng / mL 1 . 6 ± 0 . 6 hours 28 . 5 ± 8 . 7 hours Ethinyl estradiol 1335 . 8 ± 365 . 3 pg * hr / mL 122 . 8 ± 39 . 5 pg / mL 1 . 8 ± 0 . 7 hours 17 . 5 ± 7 . 4 hours AUC0 - ∞ = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity Cmax = maximum concentration Tmax = time to maximum concentration The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol absorption following oral administration of LoSeasonique has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel and ethinyl estradiol is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg and 4 . 3 L / kg , respectively .
Levonorgestrel is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol is about 95 to 97 % bound to serum albumin .
Ethinyl estradiol does not bind to SHBG , but induces SHBG synthesis , which leads to decreased levonorgestrel clearance .
Following repeated daily dosing of combination levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol OCs , levonorgestrel plasma concentrations accumulate more than predicted based on single - dose pharmacokinetics , due in part , to increased SHBG levels that are induced by ethinyl estradiol , and a possible reduction in hepatic metabolic capacity .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate conjugates and , to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16β - hydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
First - pass metabolism of ethinyl estradiol involves formation of ethinyl estradiol - 3 - sulfate in the gut wall , followed by 2 - hydroxylation of a portion of the remaining untransformed ethinyl estradiol by hepatic cytochrome P - 450 3A4 ( CYP3A4 ) .
Levels of CYP3A4 vary widely among individuals and can explain the variation in rates of ethinyl estradiol hydroxylation .
Hydroxylation at the 4 - , 6 - , and 16 - positions may also occur , although to a much lesser extent than 2 - hydroxylation .
The various hydroxylated metabolites are subject to further methylation and / or conjugation .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
Ethinyl estradiol is excreted in the urine and feces as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates , and then undergoes enterohepatic recirculation .
Race The effect of race on the pharmacokinetics of LoSeasonique has not been evaluated .
Renal and Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic or renal disease on the disposition of LoSeasonique .
However , steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in patients with impaired liver function .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility [ See WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 3 ) . ]
14 CLINICAL STUDIES In a 12 - month multicenter open - label clinical trial , 2 , 185 women aged 18 - 41 were studied to assess the safety and efficacy of LoSeasonique , completing the equivalent of 20 , 937 28 - day cycles of exposure .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was : Caucasian ( 75 % ) , African - American ( 12 % ) , Hispanic ( 10 % ) , Asian ( 2 % ) , and Other ( 2 % ) .
There were no exclusions for body mass index ( BMI ) or weight .
The weight range for those women treated was 87 to 381 lbs . , with a mean weight of 159 lbs .
Among the women in the trial , 59 % were current or recent hormonal contraceptive users , 30 % were prior users ( had used hormonal contraceptives in the past but not in the 6 months prior to enrollment ) and 11 % were new starts .
Of treated women , 14 . 2 % were lost to follow - up , 11 . 6 % discontinued due to an adverse event , and 10 . 3 % discontinued by withdrawing their consent .
The pregnancy rate ( Pearl Index [ PI ] ) in women aged 18 to 35 years was 2 . 74 pregnancies per 100 women - years of use ( 95 % confidence interval 1 . 92 – 3 . 78 ) , based on 36 pregnancies that occurred after the onset of treatment and within 14 days after the last combination pill .
Cycles in which conception did not occur , but which included the use of backup contraception , were not included in the calculation of the PI .
The PI includes patients who did not take the drug correctly .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Lo Seasonique ( levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol tablets and ethinyl estradiol tablets ) are available in an Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser that contains 84 round , orange tablets and 7 round , yellow tablets .
Each orange tablet ( debossed stylized b on one side and 28 on the other side ) contains 0 . 1 mg levonorgestrel and 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol .
Each yellow tablet ( debossed stylized b on one side and 556 on the other side ) contains 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
The tablets should not be removed from the protective blister packaging and outer plastic dispenser to avoid damage to the product .
The plastic dispenser should be kept in the foil pouch until dispensed to the patient .
Box of 1 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers NDC 54868 - 6275 - 0 Storage Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - APPROVED PATIENT LABELING ( 17 . 2 ) 17 . 1 Information for Patients • Counsel patients that cigarette smoking increases the risk of serious cardiovascular events from COC use , and that women who are over 35 years old and smoke should not use COCs .
• Counsel patients that this product does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
• Counsel patients to take one tablet daily by mouth at the same time every day .
Instruct patients what to do in the event pills are missed .
• Counsel patients to use a back - up or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with COCs .
• Counsel patients who are breastfeeding or who desire to breastfeed that COCs may reduce breast milk production .
This is less likely to occur if breastfeeding is well established .
• Counsel any patient who starts COCs postpartum , and who has not yet had a period , to use an additional method of contraception until she has taken an orange tablet for 7 consecutive days .
17 . 2 FDA Approved Patient Labeling Guide for Using LoSeasonique WARNING TO WOMEN WHO SMOKE Do not use LoSeasonique if you smoke cigarettes and are over 35 years old .
Smoking increases your risk of serious cardiovascular side effects from birth control pills , including death from heart attack , blood clots or stroke .
This risk increases with age and the number of cigarettes you smoke .
Birth control pills help to lower the chances of becoming pregnant .
They do not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
WHAT IS LoSeasonique ?
LoSeasonique is a birth control pill .
It contains two female hormones , an estrogen called ethinyl estradiol , and a progestin called levonorgestrel .
HOW WELL DOES LoSeasonique WORK ?
Your chance of getting pregnant depends on how well you follow the directions for taking your birth control pills .
The more carefully you follow the directions , the less chance you have of getting pregnant .
Based on the results of a single clinical study lasting 12 months , 2 to 4 women , out of 100 women , may get pregnant during the first year they use LoSeasonique .
The following chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who use different methods of birth control .
Each box on the chart contains a list of birth control methods that are similar in effectiveness .
The most effective methods are at the top of the chart .
The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant .
Fewer than 1 pregnancy per 100 women in one year Fewer Pregnancies • Implants • Injections • Intrauterine devices • Sterilization [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Birth control pills • Skin patch • Vaginal ring with hormones 10 - 20 pregnancies per 100 women in one year • Condoms • Diaphragm • No sex during the most fertile days of the monthly cycle • Spermicide • Withdrawal 85 or more pregnancies per 100 women in one year More Pregnancies • No birth control HOW DO I TAKE LoSeasonique ?
• Take one pill every day at the same time .
If you miss pills you could get pregnant .
This includes starting the pack late .
The more pills you miss , the more likely you are to get pregnant .
• Many women have spotting or light bleeding , or may feel sick to their stomach during the first few months of taking LoSeasonique .
If you feel sick to your stomach , do not stop taking the pill .
The problem will usually go away .
If it does n't go away , check with your healthcare provider .
• Missing pills can also cause spotting or light bleeding , even when you take the missed pills later .
On the days you take 2 pills to make up for missed pills , you could also feel a little sick to your stomach .
• If you have trouble remembering to take LoSeasonique , talk to your healthcare provider about how to make pill - taking easier or about using another method of birth control .
Before you start taking LoSeasonique • Decide what time of day you want to take your pill .
It is important to take it at about the same time every day .
• Look at your Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser .
Your Tablet Dispenser consists of 3 trays with cards that hold 91 individually sealed pills ( a 13 - week or 91 - day cycle ) .
The 91 pills consist of 84 orange and 7 yellow pills .
Trays 1 and 2 each contain 28 orange pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) .
Tray 3 contains 35 pills consisting of 28 orange pills ( 4 rows of 7 pills ) and 7 yellow pills ( 1 row of 7 pills ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Also find : • Where on the first tray in the pack to start taking pills ( upper left corner at the start arrow ) and • In what order to take the pills ( follow the weeks and arrow ) .
• Be sure you have ready at all times another kind of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) , to use as a back - up in case you miss pills .
When to Start LoSeasonique • Take the first orange pill on the Sunday after your period starts , even if you are still bleeding .
If your period begins on Sunday , start the first orange pill that same day .
• Use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) as a back - up method if you have sex anytime from the Sunday you start your first orange pill until the next Sunday ( first 7 days ) .
If you have been using a different hormonal method of birth control ( such as a different pill , the “ patch , ” or the “ vaginal ring ” ) , you need to use another method of birth control ( such as condoms or spermicides ) each time you have sex after stopping your old method of birth control until you have taken LoSeasonique for 7 days .
How to Take LoSeasonique • Take one pill at the same time every day until you have taken the last pill in the tablet dispenser .
• Do not skip pills even if you are experiencing spotting or bleeding or feel sick to your stomach ( nausea ) .
• Do not skip pills even if you do not have sex very often .
• When you finish a tablet dispenser • After taking the last yellow pill , start taking the first orange pill from a new Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispenser the very next day ( this should be on a Sunday ) regardless of when your period started .
• If you miss your scheduled period when you are taking the yellow pills , contact your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you are pregnant , you should stop taking LoSeasonique .
WHAT TO DO IF YOU MISS PILLS If you MISS 1 orange pill : • Take it as soon as you remember .
Take the next pill at your regular time .
This means you may take 2 pills in 1 day .
• You do not need to use a back - up birth control method if you have sex .
If you MISS 2 orange pills in a row : • Take 2 pills on the day you remember , and 2 pills the next day .
• Then take 1 pill a day until you finish the pack .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex in the 7 days after you miss two pills .
You MUST use another birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back up for the 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you MISS 3 OR MORE orange pills in a row : • Do not take the missed pills .
Keep taking 1 pill every day as indicated on the pack until you have completed all of the remaining pills in the pack .
For example : If you resume taking the pill on Thursday , take the pill under “ Thursday ” and do not take the missed pills .
You may experience bleeding during the week following the missed pills .
• You could become pregnant if you have sex during the days of missed pills or during the first 7 days after restarting your pills .
• You MUST use a non - hormonal birth control method ( such as condoms or spermicide ) as a back - up when you miss pills and for the first 7 days after you restart your pills .
If you do not have your period when you are taking the yellow pills , call your healthcare provider because you may be pregnant .
If you MISS ANY of the 7 yellow pills : • Throw away the missed pills .
• Keep taking the scheduled pills until the pack is finished .
• You do not need a back - up method of birth control .
Finally , if you are still not sure what to do about the pills you have missed • Use a back - up method anytime you have sex .
• Keep taking one pill each day until you contact your healthcare provider .
WHO SHOULD NOT TAKE LoSeasonique ?
Your healthcare provider will not give you LoSeasonique if you have : • Ever had breast cancer or any cancer that is sensitive to female hormones • Liver disease , including liver tumors • Ever had blood clots in your arms , legs , or lungs • Ever had a stroke • Ever had a heart attack • Certain heart valve problems or heart rhythm abnormalities that can cause blood clots to form in the heart • An inherited problem with your blood that makes it clot more than normal • High blood pressure that medicine ca n't control • Diabetes with kidney , eye , or blood vessel damage • Certain kinds of severe migraine headaches with aura , numbness , weakness or changes in vision Also , do not take birth control pills if you : • Smoke and are over 35 years old • Are pregnant Birth control pills may not be a good choice for you if you have ever had jaundice ( yellowing of the skin or eyes ) caused by pregnancy .
WHAT ELSE SHOULD I KNOW ABOUT TAKING LoSeasonique ?
Birth control pills do not protect you against any sexually transmitted disease , including HIV , the virus that causes AIDS .
Do not skip any pills , even if you do not have sex often .
Birth control pills should not be taken during pregnancy .
However , birth control pills taken by accident during pregnancy are not known to cause birth defects .
If you are breastfeeding , consider another birth control method until you are ready to stop breastfeeding .
Birth control pills that contain estrogen , like LoSeasonique , may decrease the amount of milk you make .
A small amount of the pill ' s hormones pass into breast milk , but this has not caused harmful effects in breastfeeding infants .
Tell your health care provider about all medicines and herbal products that you take .
Some medicines and herbal products may make birth control pills less effective , including : • barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Consider using another birth control method when you take medicines that may make birth control pills less effective .
Birth control pills may interact with lamotrigine , an anticonvulsant used for epilepsy .
This may increase the risk of seizures , so your physician may need to adjust the dose of lamotrigine .
If you have vomiting or diarrhea , your birth control pills may not work as well .
Use another birth control method , like condoms or a spermicide , until you check with your health care provider .
WHAT ARE THE MOST SERIOUS RISKS OF TAKING BIRTH CONTROL PILLS ?
Like pregnancy , birth control pills increase the risk of serious blood clots , especially in women who have other risk factors , such as smoking , obesity , or age > 35 .
It is possible to die from a problem caused by a blood clot , such as a heart attack or a stroke .
Some examples of serious blood clots are blood clots in the : • Legs ( thrombophlebitis ) • Lungs ( pulmonary embolus ) • Eyes ( loss of eyesight ) • Heart ( heart attack ) • Brain ( stroke ) A few women who take birth control pills may get : • High blood pressure • Gallbladder problems • Rare cancerous or noncancerous liver tumors All of these events are uncommon in healthy women .
Call your health care provider right away if you have : • Persistent leg pain • Sudden shortness of breath • Sudden blindness , partial or complete • Severe pain in your chest • Sudden , severe headache unlike your usual headaches • Weakness or numbness in an arm or leg , or trouble speaking • Yellowing of the skin or eyeballs WHAT ARE COMMON SIDE EFFECTS OF BIRTH CONTROL PILLS ?
The most common side effects of birth control pills are : • Spotting or bleeding between menstrual periods • Nausea • Breast tenderness • Headache These side effects are usually mild and usually disappear with time .
Less common side effects are : • Acne • Less sexual desire • Bloating or fluid retention • Blotchy darkening of the skin , especially on the face • High blood sugar , especially in women who already have diabetes • High fat levels in the blood .
• Depression , especially if you have had depression in the past .
Call your health care provider immediately if you have any thoughts of harming yourself .
• Problems tolerating contact lenses • Weight changes This is not a complete list of possible side effects .
Talk to your health care provider if you develop any side effects that concern you .
No serious problems have been reported from a birth control pill overdose , even when accidentally taken by children .
DO BIRTH CONTROL PILLS CAUSE CANCER ?
Birth control pills do not appear to cause breast cancer .
However , if you have breast cancer now , or have had it in the past , do not use birth control pills because some breast cancers are sensitive to hormones .
Women who use birth control pills may have a slightly higher chance of getting cervical cancer .
However , this may be due to other reasons such as having more sexual partners .
WHAT SHOULD I KNOW ABOUT MY PERIOD WHEN TAKING LoSeasonique ?
When you take LoSeasonique , which has a 91 - day extended dosing cycle , you should expect to have 4 scheduled periods per year ( bleeding when you are taking the 7 yellow pills ) .
Each period is likely to last about 2 to 3 days .
However , you will probably have more bleeding or spotting between your scheduled periods than if you were using a birth control pill with a 28 - day dosing cycle .
This bleeding or spotting tends to decrease with time .
Do not stop taking LoSeasonique because of this bleeding or spotting .
If the spotting continues for more than 7 consecutive days or if the bleeding is heavy , call your healthcare provider .
WHAT IF I MISS MY SCHEDULED PERIOD WHEN TAKING LoSeasonique ?
You should consider the possibility that you are pregnant if you miss your scheduled period ( no bleeding on the days that you are taking yellow tablets ) .
Since scheduled periods are less frequent when you are taking LoSeasonique , notify your healthcare provider that you have missed your period and that you are taking LoSeasonique .
Also notify your healthcare provider if you have symptoms of pregnancy such as morning sickness or unusual breast tenderness .
It is important that your healthcare provider evaluates you to determine if you are pregnant .
Stop taking LoSeasonique if it is determined that you are pregnant .
WHAT IF I WANT TO BECOME PREGNANT ?
You may stop taking the pill whenever you wish .
Consider a visit with your health care provider for a pre - pregnancy checkup before you stop taking the pill .
Rx only TEVA WOMEN ’ S HEALTH , INC .
Subsidiary of TEVA PHARMACEUTICALS USA , INC .
Sellersville , PA 18960 Iss .
6 / 2011 799 - 33 - 100090 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Additional barcode labeling applied by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] LoSEASONIQUE levonorgestrel / ethinyl estradiol 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 02 mg tablets ethinyl estradiol 0 . 01 mg tablets Rx only Usual Dosage : One tablet daily for 91 consecutive days in the following order : 84 orange tablets followed by 7 yellow tablets as prescribed .
See enclosed package brochure .
Pharmacist : Dispense patient information with each prescription .
Contains 2 Extended - Cycle Tablet Dispensers , each containing 91 tablets : 84 orange tablets , each containing 0 . 1 mg levonorgestrel with 0 . 02 mg ethinyl estradiol , and 7 yellow tablets , each containing 0 . 01 mg ethinyl estradiol .
THIS PRODUCT ( LIKE ALL ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES ) IS INTENDED TO PREVENT PREGNANCY .
IT DOES NOT PROTECT AGAINST HIV INFECTION ( AIDS ) AND OTHER SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES .
Store at 20 o to 25 oC ( 68 o to 77 oF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
