Dosage and Administration 07 / 2010 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is a beta2 - adrenergic agonist indicated for : • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
( 1 . 1 ) • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Bronchospasm PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease .
1 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is indicated for the prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in patients 4 years of age and older .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral inhalation only • Treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older : 2 inhalations every 4 to 6 hours .
In some patients , one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
( 2 . 1 ) • Prevention of exercise - induced bronchospasm in adults and children 4 years of age and older : 2 inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
( 2 . 2 ) • Priming information : Prime PROAIR HFA before using for the first time , or when the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks .
To prime PROAIR HFA , release 3 sprays into the air away from the face .
Shake well before each spray .
( 2 . 3 ) • Cleaning information : At least once a week , wash the actuator with warm water , shake off excess , and air dry thoroughly .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Bronchospasm For treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm or prevention of symptoms associated with bronchospasm , the usual dosage for adults and children 4 years and older is two inhalations repeated every 4 to 6 hours .
More frequent administration or a larger number of inhalations is not recommended .
In some patients , one inhalation every 4 hours may be sufficient .
2 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm The usual dosage for adults and children 4 years of age or older is two inhalations 15 to 30 minutes before exercise .
2 . 3 Administration Information Administer PROAIR HFA by oral inhalation only .
Shake well before each spray .
To maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build - up and blockage , it is important to follow the cleaning directions carefully .
Priming : Prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air , away from the face .
Cleaning : As with all HFA - containing albuterol inhalers , to maintain proper use of this product and to prevent medication build - up and blockage , it is important to clean the plastic mouthpiece regularly .
The inhaler may cease to deliver medication if the plastic actuator mouthpiece is not properly cleaned and dried .
To clean : Wash the plastic mouthpiece with warm running water for 30 seconds , shake off excess water , and air dry thoroughly at least once a week .
If the mouthpiece becomes blocked , washing the mouthpiece will remove the blockage .
If it is necessary to use the inhaler before it is completely dry , shake off excess water , replace canister , spray twice into the air away from face , and take the prescribed dose .
After such use , the mouthpiece should be rewashed and allowed to air dry thoroughly .
[ see Patient Counseling Information ( 17 . 8 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS PROAIR HFA is an inhalation aerosol .
PROAIR HFA is supplied as an 8 . 5 g / 200 actuations pressurized aluminum canister with a red plastic actuator and white dust cap each in boxes of one .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the canister valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the actuator mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
Inhalation Aerosol : Each actuation delivers 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the actuator mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
Supplied in 8 . 5 - g canister containing 200 actuations .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to albuterol and any other PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol components .
Rare cases of hypersensitivity reactions , including urticaria , angioedema , and rash have been reported after the use of albuterol sulfate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to albuterol and any other PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol Components .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS • Life - threatening paradoxical bronchospasm may occur .
Discontinue PROAIR HFA immediately and treat with alternative therapy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Need for more doses of PROAIR HFA than usual may be a sign of deterioration of asthma and requires reevaluation of treatment .
( 5 . 2 ) • PROAIR HFA is not a substitute for corticosteroids .
( 5 . 3 ) • Cardiovascular effects may occur .
Use with caution in patients sensitive to sympathomimetic drugs and patients with cardiovascular or convulsive disorders .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 7 ) • Excessive use may be fatal .
Do not exceed recommended dose .
( 5 . 5 ) • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur .
Discontinue PROAIR HFA immediately .
( 5 . 6 ) • Hypokalemia and changes in blood glucose may occur .
( 5 . 7 , 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Paradoxical Bronchospasm PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life threatening .
If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted .
It should be recognized that paradoxical bronchospasm , when associated with inhaled formulations , frequently occurs with the first use of a new canister .
5 . 2 Deterioration of Asthma Asthma may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer .
If the patient needs more doses of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol than usual , this may be a marker of destabilization of asthma and requires re - evaluation of the patient and treatment regimen , giving special consideration to the possible need for anti - inflammatory treatment , e . g . , corticosteroids .
5 . 3 Use of Anti - inflammatory Agents The use of beta - adrenergic - agonist bronchodilators alone may not be adequate to control asthma in many patients .
Early consideration should be given to adding anti - inflammatory agents , e . g . , corticosteroids , to the therapeutic regimen .
5 . 4 Cardiovascular Effects PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , like other beta - adrenergic agonists , can produce clinically significant cardiovascular effects in some patients as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , and / or symptoms .
Although such effects are uncommon after administration of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol at recommended doses , if they occur , the drug may need to be discontinued .
In addition , beta - agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes , such as flattening of the T wave , prolongation of the QTc interval , and ST segment depression .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Therefore , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension .
5 . 5 Do Not Exceed Recommended Dose Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs in patients with asthma .
The exact cause of death is unknown , but cardiac arrest following an unexpected development of a severe acute asthmatic crisis and subsequent hypoxia is suspected .
5 . 6 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of albuterol sulfate , as demonstrated by rare cases of urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , anaphylaxis , and oropharyngeal edema .
The potential for hypersensitivity must be considered in the clinical evaluation of patients who experience immediate hypersensitivity reactions while receiving PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
5 . 7 Coexisting Conditions PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , like all sympathomimetic amines , should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders , especially coronary insufficiency , cardiac arrhythmias , and hypertension ; in patients with convulsive disorders , hyperthyroidism , or diabetes mellitus ; and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines .
Clinically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure have been seen in individual patients and could be expected to occur in some patients after use of any beta - adrenergic bronchodilator .
Large doses of intravenous albuterol have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis .
5 . 8 Hypokalemia As with other beta - agonists , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients , possibly through intracellular shunting , which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects .
The decrease is usually transient , not requiring supplementation .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Use of PROAIR HFA may be associated with the following : • Paradoxical bronchospasm [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Cardiovascular Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Immediate hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Hypokalemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 3 . 0 % and > placebo ) are headache , tachycardia , pain , dizziness , pharyngitis , and rhinitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Teva Respiratory , LLC at 1 - 888 - 482 - 9522 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience A total of 1090 subjects were treated with PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , or with the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , during the worldwide clinical development program .
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adult and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older : The adverse reaction information presented in the table below concerning PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is derived from a 6 - week , blinded study which compared PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 180 mcg four times daily ) with a double - blinded matched placebo HFA - Inhalation Aerosol and an evaluator - blinded marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler in 172 asthmatic patients 12 to 76 years of age .
The table lists the incidence of all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) from this study which occurred at a rate of 3 % or greater in the PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol treatment group and more frequently in the PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol treatment group than in the matched placebo group .
Overall , the incidence and nature of the adverse events reported for PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol and the marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler were comparable .
Adverse Experience Incidences ( % of Patients ) in a Six - Week Clinical Trial [ 1 ] Body System / Adverse Event ( as Preferred Term ) PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( N = 58 ) Marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler ( N = 56 ) Matched Placebo HFA - 134 a Inhalation Aerosol ( N = 58 ) Body as a Whole Headache 7 5 2 Cardiovascular Tachycardia 3 2 0 Musculoskeletal Pain 3 0 0 Nervous System Dizziness 3 0 0 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 14 7 9 Rhinitis 5 4 2 [ 1 ] This table includes all adverse events ( whether considered by the investigator drug related or unrelated to drug ) which occurred at an incidence rate of at least 3 . 0 % in the PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol group and more frequently in the PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol group than in the placebo HFA Inhalation Aerosol group .
Adverse events reported by less than 3 % of the patients receiving PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol but by a greater proportion of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol patients than the matched placebo patients , which have the potential to be related to PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , included chest pain , infection , diarrhea , glossitis , accidental injury ( nervous system ) , anxiety , dyspnea , ear disorder , ear pain , and urinary tract infection .
In small cumulative dose studies , tremor , nervousness , and headache were the most frequently occurring adverse events .
Pediatric Patients 4 to 11 Years of Age : Adverse events reported in a 3 - week pediatric clinical trial comparing the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 180 mcg albuterol four times daily ) to a matching placebo HFA inhalation aerosol occurred at a low incidence rate ( no greater than 2 % in the active treatment group ) and were similar to those seen in adult and adolescent trials .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of PROAIR HFA .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Reports have included rare cases of aggravated bronchospasm , lack of efficacy , asthma exacerbation ( reported fatal in one case ) , muscle cramps , and various oropharyngeal side - effects such as throat irritation , altered taste , glossitis , tongue ulceration , and gagging .
The following adverse events have been observed in postapproval use of inhaled albuterol : urticaria , angioedema , rash , bronchospasm , hoarseness , oropharyngeal edema , and arrhythmias ( including atrial fibrillation , supraventricular tachycardia , extrasystoles ) .
In addition , albuterol , like other sympathomimetic agents , can cause adverse reactions such as : angina , hypertension or hypotension , palpitations , central nervous system stimulation , insomnia , headache , nervousness , tremor , muscle cramps , drying or irritation of the oropharynx , hypokalemia , hyperglycemia , and metabolic acidosis .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators should not be used concomitantly with PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
If additional adrenergic drugs are to be administered by any route , they should be used with caution to avoid deleterious cardiovascular effects .
• Other short - acting sympathomimetic aerosol bronchodilators and adrenergic drugs : May potentiate effect .
( 7 ) • Beta - blockers : May decrease effectiveness of PROAIR HFA and produce severe bronchospasm .
Patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
( 7 . 1 ) • Diuretics , or non - potassium sparing diuretics : May potentiate hypokalemia or ECG changes .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
( 7 . 2 ) • Digoxin : May decrease serum digoxin levels .
Consider monitoring digoxin levels .
( 7 . 3 ) • Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants : May potentiate effect of albuterol on the cardiovascular system .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAOs or tricyclic antidepressants .
( 7 . 4 ) 7 . 1 Beta - Blockers Beta - adrenergic - receptor blocking agents not only block the pulmonary effect of beta - agonists , such as PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , but may produce severe bronchospasm in asthmatic patients .
Therefore , patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta - blockers .
However , under certain circumstances , e . g . , as prophylaxis after myocardial infarction , there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta - adrenergic - blocking agents in patients with asthma .
In this setting , consider cardioselective beta - blockers , although they should be administered with caution .
7 . 2 Diuretics The ECG changes and / or hypokalemia which may result from the administration of non - potassium sparing diuretics ( such as loop or thiazide diuretics ) can be acutely worsened by beta - agonists , especially when the recommended dose of the beta - agonist is exceeded .
Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known , caution is advised in the coadministration of beta - agonists with non - potassium sparing diuretics .
Consider monitoring potassium levels .
7 . 3 Digoxin Mean decreases of 16 % and 22 % in serum digoxin levels were demonstrated after single dose intravenous and oral administration of albuterol , respectively , to normal volunteers who had received digoxin for 10 days .
The clinical significance of these findings for patients with obstructive airway disease who are receiving albuterol and digoxin on a chronic basis is unclear .
Nevertheless , it would be prudent to carefully evaluate the serum digoxin levels in patients who are currently receiving digoxin and PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
7 . 4 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors or Tricyclic Antidepressants PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants , or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents , because the action of albuterol on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated .
Consider alternative therapy in patients taking MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol or albuterol sulfate in pregnant women .
During worldwide marketing experience , various congenital anomalies , including cleft palate and limb defects , have been reported in the offspring of patients treated with albuterol .
Some of the mothers were taking multiple medications during their pregnancies .
No consistent pattern of defects can be discerned , and a relationship between albuterol use and congenital anomalies has not been established .
Animal reproduction studies in mice and rabbits revealed evidence of teratogenicity .
PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
In a mouse reproduction study , subcutaneously administered albuterol sulfate produced cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at an exposure approximately eight - tenths of the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) for adults on a mg / m2 basis and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at approximately 8 times the MRHD .
Similar effects were not observed at approximately one - thirteenth of the MRHD .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
In a rabbit reproduction study , orally administered albuterol sulfate induced cranioschisis in 7 of 19 fetuses ( 37 % ) at approximately 630 times the MRHD .
In a rat reproduction study , an albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a formulation administered by inhalation did not produce any teratogenic effects at exposures approximately 65 times the MRHD [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 2 ) ] .
8 . 2 Labor and Delivery Because of the potential for beta - agonist interference with uterine contractility , use of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol for relief of bronchospasm during labor should be restricted to those patients in whom the benefits clearly outweigh the risk .
PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol has not been approved for the management of pre - term labor .
The benefit : risk ratio when albuterol is administered for tocolysis has not been established .
Serious adverse reactions , including pulmonary edema , have been reported during or following treatment of premature labor with beta2 - agonists , including albuterol .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Plasma levels of albuterol sulfate and HFA - 134 a after inhaled therapeutic doses are very low in humans , but it is not known whether the components of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol are excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is administered to a nursing woman .
Because of the potential for tumorigenicity shown for albuterol in animal studies and lack of experience with the use of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol by nursing mothers , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol for the treatment or prevention of bronchospasm in children 12 years of age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease is based on one 6 - week clinical trial in 116 patients 12 years of age and older with asthma comparing doses of 180 mcg four times daily with placebo , and one single - dose crossover study comparing doses of 90 , 180 , and 270 mcg with placebo in 58 patients [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol for treatment of exercise - induced bronchospasm in children 12 years of age and older is based on one single - dose crossover study in 24 adults and adolescents with exercise - induced bronchospasm comparing doses of 180 mcg with placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 2 ) ] .
The safety of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol in children 4 to 11 years of age is based on one 3 - week clinical trial in 50 patients 4 to 11 years of age with asthma using the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol comparing doses of 180 mcg four times daily with placebo .
The effectiveness of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol in children 4 to 11 years of age is extrapolated from clinical trials in patients 12 years of age and older with asthma and exercise - induced bronchospasm , based on data from a single - dose study comparing the bronchodilatory effect of PROAIR HFA 90 mcg and 180 mcg with placebo in 55 patients with asthma and a 3 - week clinical trial using the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol in 95 asthmatic children 4 to 11 years of age comparing a dose of 180 mcg albuterol four times daily with placebo [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
The safety and effectiveness of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol in pediatric patients below the age of 4 years have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 7 ) ] .
All beta2 - adrenergic agonists , including albuterol , are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
10 OVERDOSAGE The expected symptoms with overdosage are those of excessive beta - adrenergic stimulation and / or occurrence or exaggeration of any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS , e . g . , seizures , angina , hypertension or hypotension , tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats per minute , arrhythmias , nervousness , headache , tremor , dry mouth , palpitation , nausea , dizziness , fatigue , malaise , and insomnia .
Hypokalemia may also occur .
As with all sympathomimetic medications , cardiac arrest and even death may be associated with abuse of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
Treatment consists of discontinuation of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol together with appropriate symptomatic therapy .
The judicious use of a cardioselective beta - receptor blocker may be considered , bearing in mind that such medication can produce bronchospasm .
There is insufficient evidence to determine if dialysis is beneficial for overdosage of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
The oral median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate in mice is greater than 2 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 6 , 800 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 3 , 200 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In mature rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose of albuterol sulfate is approximately 450 mg / kg ( approximately 3 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 1 , 400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In young rats , the subcutaneous median lethal dose is approximately 2 , 000 mg / kg ( approximately 14 , 000 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6 , 400 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The inhalation median lethal dose has not been determined in animals .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient of PROAIR HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol is albuterol sulfate , a racemic salt , of albuterol .
Albuterol sulfate has the chemical name α1 - [ ( tert - butylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - hydroxy - m - xylene - α , α ' - diol sulfate ( 2 : 1 ) ( salt ) , and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The molecular weight of albuterol sulfate is 576 . 7 , and the empirical formula is ( C13H21NO3 ) 2 • H2SO4 .
Albuterol sulfate is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
It is soluble in water and slightly soluble in ethanol .
Albuterol sulfate is the official generic name in the United States , and salbutamol sulfate is the World Health Organization recommended generic name .
PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol is a pressurized metered - dose aerosol unit for oral inhalation .
It contains a microcrystalline suspension of albuterol sulfate in propellant HFA - 134 a ( 1 , 1 , 1 , 2 - tetrafluoroethane ) and ethanol .
Prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air , away from the face .
After priming , each actuation delivers 108 mcg albuterol sulfate , from the actuator mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
Each canister provides 200 actuations ( inhalations ) .
This product does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Albuterol sulfate is a beta2 - adrenergic agonist .
The pharmacologic effects of albuterol sulfate are attributable to activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors on airway smooth muscle .
Activation of beta2 - adrenergic receptors leads to the activation of adenylcyclase and to an increase in the intracellular concentration of cyclic - 3 ' , 5 ' - adenosine monophosphate ( cyclic AMP ) .
This increase of cyclic AMP is associated with the activation of protein kinase A , which in turn inhibits the phosphorylation of myosin and lowers intracellular ionic calcium concentrations , resulting in muscle relaxation .
Albuterol relaxes the smooth muscle of all airways , from the trachea to the terminal bronchioles .
Albuterol acts as a functional antagonist to relax the airway irrespective of the spasmogen involved , thus protecting against all bronchoconstrictor challenges .
Increased cyclic AMP concentrations are also associated with the inhibition of release of mediators from mast cells in the airway .
While it is recognized that beta2 - adrenergic receptors are the predominant receptors on bronchial smooth muscle , data indicate that there are beta - receptors in the human heart , 10 % to 50 % of which are cardiac beta2 - adrenergic receptors .
The precise function of these receptors has not been established [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Albuterol has been shown in most controlled clinical trials to have more effect on the respiratory tract , in the form of bronchial smooth muscle relaxation , than isoproterenol at comparable doses while producing fewer cardiovascular effects .
However , inhaled albuterol , like other beta - adrenergic agonist drugs , can produce a significant cardiovascular effect in some patients , as measured by pulse rate , blood pressure , symptoms , and / or electrocardiographic changes [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacokinetics The systemic levels of albuterol are low after inhalation of recommended doses .
In a crossover study conducted in healthy male and female volunteers , high cumulative doses of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 1 , 080 mcg of albuterol base administered over one hour ) yielded mean peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) and systemic exposure ( AUCinf ) of approximately 4 , 100 pg / mL and 28 , 426 pg / mL * hr , respectively compared to approximately 3 , 900 pg / mL and 28 , 395 pg / mL * hr , respectively following the same dose of an active HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler comparator .
The terminal plasma half - life of albuterol delivered by PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol was approximately 6 hours .
Comparison of the pharmacokinetic parameters demonstrated no differences between the products .
The pharmacokinetic profile of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol was evaluated in a two - way cross - over study in 11 healthy pediatric volunteers , 4 to 11 years of age .
A single dose administration of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 180 mcg albuterol base ) yielded a least square mean ( SE ) Cmax and AUC0 - ∞ of 1 , 100 ( 1 . 18 ) pg / mL and 5 , 120 ( 1 . 15 ) pg / mL * hr , respectively .
The least square mean ( SE ) terminal plasma half - life of albuterol delivered by PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol was 166 ( 7 . 8 ) minutes .
Metabolism and Elimination : Information available in the published literature suggests that the primary enzyme responsible for the metabolism of albuterol in humans is SULTIA3 ( sulfotransferase ) .
When racemic albuterol was administered either intravenously or via inhalation after oral charcoal administration , there was a 3 - to 4 - fold difference in the area under the concentration - time curves between the ( R ) - and ( S ) - albuterol enantiomers , with ( S ) - albuterol concentrations being consistently higher .
However , without charcoal pretreatment , after either oral or inhalation administration the differences were 8 - to 24 - fold , suggesting that the ( R ) - albuterol is preferentially metabolized in the gastrointestinal tract , presumably by SULTIA3 .
The primary route of elimination of albuterol is through renal excretion ( 80 % to 100 % ) of either the parent compound or the primary metabolite .
Less than 20 % of the drug is detected in the feces .
Following intravenous administration of racemic albuterol , between 25 % and 46 % of the ( R ) - albuterol fraction of the dose was excreted as unchanged ( R ) - albuterol in the urine .
Geriatric , Pediatric , Hepatic / Renal Impairment : No pharmacokinetic studies for PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol have been conducted in neonates or elderly subjects .
The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol has not been evaluated .
The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of albuterol was evaluated in 5 subjects with creatinine clearance of 7 to 53 mL / min , and the results were compared with those from healthy volunteers .
Renal disease had no effect on the half - life , but there was a 67 % decline in albuterol clearance .
Caution should be used when administering high doses of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol to patients with renal impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In a 2 - year study in Sprague - Dawley rats , albuterol sulfate caused a dose - related increase in the incidence of benign leiomyomas of the mesovarium at and above dietary doses of 2 mg / kg ( approximately 15 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 6 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In another study this effect was blocked by the coadministration of propranolol , a non - selective beta - adrenergic antagonist .
In an 18 - month study in CD - 1 mice , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 500 mg / kg ( approximately 1 , 600 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 740 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 22 - month study in Golden Hamsters , albuterol sulfate showed no evidence of tumorigenicity at dietary doses of up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 210 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis and approximately 100 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Albuterol sulfate was not mutagenic in the Ames test or a mutation test in yeast .
Albuterol sulfate was not clastogenic in a human peripheral lymphocyte assay or in an AH1 strain mouse micronucleus assay .
Reproduction studies in rats demonstrated no evidence of impaired fertility at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg ( approximately 310 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology Preclinical : Intravenous studies in rats with albuterol sulfate have demonstrated that albuterol crosses the blood - brain barrier and reaches brain concentrations amounting to approximately 5 % of the plasma concentrations .
In structures outside the blood - brain barrier ( pineal and pituitary glands ) , albuterol concentrations were found to be 100 times those in the whole brain .
Studies in laboratory animals ( minipigs , rodents , and dogs ) have demonstrated the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death ( with histologic evidence of myocardial necrosis ) when β - agonists and methylxanthines were administered concurrently .
The clinical significance of these findings is unknown .
Propellant HFA - 134 a is devoid of pharmacological activity except at very high doses in animals ( 380 - 1300 times the maximum human exposure based on comparisons of AUC values ) , primarily producing ataxia , tremors , dyspnea , or salivation .
These are similar to effects produced by the structurally related chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) , which have been used extensively in metered - dose inhalers .
In animals and humans , propellant HFA - 134 a was found to be rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated , with an elimination half - life of 3 - 27 minutes in animals and 5 - 7 minutes in humans .
Time to maximum plasma concentration ( Tmax ) and mean residence time are both extremely short leading to a transient appearance of HFA - 134 a in the blood with no evidence of accumulation .
Reproductive Toxicology Studies : A study in CD - 1 mice given albuterol sulfate subcutaneously showed cleft palate formation in 5 of 111 ( 4 . 5 % ) fetuses at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) and in 10 of 108 ( 9 . 3 % ) fetuses at 2 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 8 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The drug did not induce cleft palate formation at a dose of 0 . 025 mg / kg ( less than the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Cleft palate also occurred in 22 of 72 ( 30 . 5 % ) fetuses from females treated subcutaneously with 2 . 5 mg / kg of isoproterenol ( positive control ) .
A reproduction study in Stride Dutch rabbits revealed cranioschisis in 7 of 19 fetuses ( 37 % ) when albuterol sulfate was administered orally at 50 mg / kg ( approximately 630 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In an inhalation reproduction study in Sprague - Dawley rats , the albuterol sulfate / HFA - 134 a did not exhibit any teratogenic effects at 10 . 5 mg / kg ( approximately 65 times the maximum recommended daily inhalation dose for adults on a mg / m2 basis ) .
A study in which pregnant rats were dosed with radiolabeled albuterol sulfate demonstrated that drug - related material is transferred from the maternal circulation to the fetus .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Bronchospasm Associated with Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients 12 Years of Age and Older : In a 6 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 58 patients ) was compared to a matched placebo HFA inhalation aerosol ( 58 patients ) in asthmatic patients 12 to 76 years of age at a dose of 180 mcg albuterol four times daily .
An evaluator - blind marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler arm ( 56 patients ) was included .
Serial FEV1 measurements , shown below as percent change from test - day baseline at Day 1 and at Day 43 , demonstrated that two inhalations of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pre - treatment value than the matched placebo , as well as a comparable bronchodilator effect to the marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler .
FEV1 as Mean Percent Change from Test - Day Pre - Dose in a 6 - Week Clinical Trial Day 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Day 43 [ MULTIMEDIA ] In this study , 31 of 58 patients treated with PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol achieved a 15 % increase in FEV1 within 30 minutes post - dose on Day 1 .
In these patients , the median time to onset , median time to peak effect , and median duration of effect were 8 . 2 minutes , 47 minutes , and approximately 3 hours , respectively .
In some patients , the duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In a placebo - controlled , single - dose , crossover study , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , administered at albuterol doses of 90 , 180 and 270 mcg , produced bronchodilator responses significantly greater than those observed with a matched placebo HFA inhalation aerosol and comparable to a marketed active comparator HFA - 134 a albuterol inhaler .
Pediatric Patients 4 to 11 Years of Age : In a 3 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial , the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol ( 50 patients ) was compared to a matched placebo HFA inhalation aerosol ( 45 patients ) in asthmatic children 4 to 11 years of age at a dose of 180 mcg albuterol four times daily .
Serial FEV1 measurements , expressed as the maximum percent change from test - day baseline in percent predicted FEV1 at Day 1 and at Day 22 observed within two hours post - dose , demonstrated that two inhalations of HFA albuterol sulfate produced significantly greater improvement in FEV1 over the pre - treatment value than the matched placebo .
In this study , 21 of 50 pediatric patients treated with the same formulation of albuterol as in PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol achieved a 15 % increase in FEV1 within 30 minutes post - dose on Day 1 .
In these patients , the median time to onset , median time to peak effect and median duration of effect were 10 minutes , 31 minutes , and approximately 4 hours , respectively .
In some pediatric patients , the duration of effect was as long as 6 hours .
In a placebo - controlled , single - dose , crossover study in 55 pediatric patients 4 to 11 years of age , PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , administered at albuterol doses of 90 and 180 mcg , was compared with a matched placebo HFA inhalation aerosol .
Serial FEV1 measurements , expressed as the baseline - adjusted percent predicted FEV1 observed over 6 hours post - dose , demonstrated that one and two inhalations of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol produced significantly greater bronchodilator responses than the matched placebo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 14 . 2 Exercise - Induced Bronchospasm In a randomized , single - dose , crossover study in 24 adults and adolescents with exercise - induced bronchospasm ( EIB ) , two inhalations of PROAIR HFA taken 30 minutes before exercise prevented EIB for the hour following exercise ( defined as maintenance of FEV1 within 80 % of post - dose , pre - exercise baseline values ) in 83 % ( 20 of 24 ) of patients as compared to 25 % ( 6 of 24 ) of patients when they received placebo .
Some patients who participated in these clinical trials were using concomitant steroid therapy .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE & HANDLING PROAIR HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol is supplied as a pressurized aluminum canister with a red plastic actuator and white dust cap each in boxes of one .
Each canister contains 8 . 5 g of the formulation and provides 200 actuations ( NDC 59310 - 579 - 20 ) .
Each actuation delivers 120 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the canister valve and 108 mcg of albuterol sulfate from the actuator mouthpiece ( equivalent to 90 mcg of albuterol base ) .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USE .
Store between 15 ° and 25 ° C ( 59 ° and 77 ° F ) .
Contents under pressure .
Do not puncture or incinerate .
Protect from freezing temperatures and prolonged exposure to direct sunlight .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
For best results , canister should be at room temperature before use .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 8 ) for priming and cleaning instructions .
The red actuator supplied with PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol should not be used with the canister from any other inhalation aerosol products .
The PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol canister should not be used with the actuator from any other inhalation aerosol products .
The labeled amount of medication in each actuation cannot be assured after 200 actuations , even though the canister may not be completely empty .
Discard the inhaler ( canister plus actuator ) after 200 actuations have been used .
Never immerse the canister into water to determine how full the canister is ( " float test " ) .
PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol does not contain chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) as the propellant .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( 17 . 8 ) Patients should be given the following information : 17 . 1 Frequency of Use The action of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol should last for 4 to 6 hours .
Do not use PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol more frequently than recommended .
Instruct patients to not increase the dose or frequency of doses of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol without consulting the physician .
If patients find that treatment with PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol becomes less effective for symptomatic relief , symptoms become worse , and / or they need to use the product more frequently than usual , they should seek medical attention immediately .
17 . 2 Priming and Cleaning Priming : Priming is essential to ensure appropriate albuterol content in each actuation .
Instruct patients to prime the inhaler before using for the first time and in cases where the inhaler has not been used for more than 2 weeks by releasing three sprays into the air , away from the face .
Cleaning : To ensure proper dosing and prevent actuator orifice blockage , instruct patients to wash the red plastic actuator mouthpiece and dry thoroughly at least once a week .
Detailed cleaning instructions are included in the illustrated Information for the Patient leaflet .
17 . 3 Paradoxical Bronchospasm Inform patients that PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol can produce paradoxical bronchospasm .
Instruct patients to discontinue PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs .
17 . 4 Concomitant Drug Use While patients are taking PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol , other inhaled drugs and asthma medications should be taken only as directed by a physician .
17 . 5 Common Adverse Events Common adverse effects of treatment with inhaled albuterol include palpitations , chest pain , rapid heart rate , tremor , or nervousness .
17 . 6 Pregnancy Patients who are pregnant or nursing should contact their physician about the use of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol .
17 . 7 General Information on Use Effective and safe use of PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol includes an understanding of the way that it should be administered .
Shake well before each spray .
Use PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol only with the actuator supplied with the product .
Discard the canister after 200 sprays have been used .
Never immerse the canister in water to determine how full the canister is ( " float test " ) .
In general , the technique for administering PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol to children is similar to that for adults .
Children should use PROAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol under adult supervision , as instructed by the patient ' s physician .
17 . 8 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling See tear - off illustrated Information for the Patient leaflet below .
U . S . Patent Nos . 5605674 , 5695743 , 7105152 , 7566445 Mktd by : Teva Respiratory , LLC Horsham , PA 19044 Mfd by : IVAX Pharmaceuticals Ireland Waterford , Ireland Copyright © 2010 , Teva Respiratory , LLC All rights reserved .
PROAIR ® HFA is a registered trademark of Teva Respiratory , LLC Manufactured In Ireland PE 2237 Rev . 07 / 10 Attention Pharmacist : Detach Patient ' s Instructions for use from package insert and dispense with the product .
Information for the Patient PROAIR ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol Read this leaflet carefully before you start to use PROAIR HFA .
Keep this leaflet because it has important summary information about PROAIR HFA .
Your healthcare provider has more information or advice .
Read the new leaflet that comes with each refill of your prescription because there may be new information .
What is PROAIR HFA ?
PROAIR HFA is a kind of medicine called a fast - acting bronchodilator .
Fast - acting bronchodilators help to quickly open the airways in your lungs so that you can breathe more easily .
Each dose of PROAIR HFA should last up to 4 to 6 hours .
Take PROAIR HFA as directed by your doctor .
Do not take extra doses or take more often without asking your doctor .
Get medical help right away if PROAIR HFA no longer helps your symptoms .
Also get medical help if your symptoms get worse or if you need to use your inhaler more often .
While you are using PROAIR HFA , use other inhaled medicines and asthma medicines only as directed by your doctor .
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant or nursing , and ask about the use of PROAIR HFA .
Possible side effects of taking PROAIR HFA include fast or irregular heartbeat , chest pain , shakiness , and nervousness .
With the first use of a new canister , worsening of wheezing may occur .
The parts of your PROAIR HFA inhaler : [ MULTIMEDIA ] There are 2 main parts to your PROAIR HFA inhaler — the metal canister that holds the medicine and the red plastic actuator that sprays the medicine from the canister ( see Figure 1 ) .
The inhaler also has a cap that covers the mouthpiece of the actuator .
Do not use the PROAIR HFA actuator with a canister of medicine from any other inhaler .
And do not use a PROAIR HFA canister with an actuator from any other inhaler .
How to Use Your PROAIR HFA Before using your PROAIR HFA : If a child needs help using the inhaler , an adult should help the child use the inhaler .
An adult should watch a child use the inhaler to be sure it is used correctly .
The inhaler should be at room temperature before you use it .
Check each time to make sure the canister fits firmly in the plastic actuator .
Also look into the mouthpiece to make sure there are no foreign objects there , especially if the cap is not being used to cover the mouthpiece .
Priming your PROAIR HFA : You must prime the inhaler to get the right amount of medicine .
Prime the inhaler before you use it for the first time or if you have not used it for more than 14 days .
To prime the inhaler , take the cap off the mouthpiece of the actuator .
Then shake the inhaler well , and spray it into the air away from your face .
Shake and spray the inhaler like this 2 more times to finish priming it .
Instructions for taking a dose from your PROAIR HFA : Read through the 6 steps below before using PROAIR HFA .
If you have any questions , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
• Take the cap off the mouthpiece of the actuator .
Shake the inhaler well before each spray .
• Hold the inhaler with the mouthpiece down ( see Figure 2 ) .
Breathe out through your mouth and push as much air from your lungs as you can .
Put the mouthpiece in your mouth and close your lips around it .
• Push the top of the canister all the way down while you breathe in deeply and slowly through your mouth ( see Figure 3 ) .
Right after the spray comes out , take your finger off the canister .
After you have breathed in all the way , take the inhaler out of your mouth and close your mouth .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Hold your breath as long as you can , up to 10 seconds , then breathe normally .
• If your doctor has prescribed more sprays , wait 1 minute and shake the inhaler again .
Repeat steps 2 through 4 .
• Put the cap back on the mouthpiece after every time you use the inhaler , and make sure it snaps firmly into place .
When to Replace Your PROAIR HFA • Before you reach 200 sprays , you should refill your prescription or ask your doctor if you need another prescription for PROAIR HFA .
• Throw the inhaler away when you have used 200 sprays .
You should not keep using the inhaler after 200 sprays even though the canister may not be completely empty because you cannot be sure you will receive any medicine .
• Do not use the inhaler after the expiration date , which is on the packaging it comes in .
How to Clean Your PROAIR HFA It is very important to keep the plastic actuator clean so the medicine will not build - up and block the spray .
Do not try to clean the metal canister or let it get wet .
The inhaler may stop spraying if it is not cleaned correctly .
Wash the actuator at least once a week .
Cleaning instructions : • Take the canister out of the actuator , and take the cap off the mouthpiece .
• Wash the actuator through the top with warm running water for 30 seconds ( see Figure 4 ) .
Then wash the actuator again through the mouthpiece ( see Figure 5 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Shake off as much water from the actuator as you can .
Look into the mouthpiece to make sure any medicine build - up has been completely washed away .
If there is any build - up , repeat steps in Figures 4 and 5 .
• Let the actuator air - dry completely , such as overnight ( see Figure 6 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • When the actuator is dry , put the canister in the actuator and make sure it fits firmly .
Shake the inhaler well and spray it twice into the air away from your face .
Put the cap back on the mouthpiece .
If your actuator becomes blocked : Blockage from medicine build - up is more likely to happen if you do not let the actuator air - dry completely .
If the actuator gets blocked so that little or no medicine comes out of the mouthpiece ( see Figures 7 and 8 ) , wash the actuator as described in the " Cleaning Instructions " section above .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] However , if you need to use your inhaler before the actuator is completely dry , shake as much water off the actuator as you can .
Put the canister in the actuator and make sure it fits firmly .
Shake the inhaler well and spray it twice into the air away from your face .
Then take your dose as prescribed .
Then clean and air - dry it completely .
Storing Your PROAIR HFA Store between 15 ° and 25 ° C ( 59 ° and 77 ° F ) .
Avoid exposure to extreme heat and cold .
For best results , canister should be at room temperature .
Shake well before use .
Contents Under Pressure .
Do not puncture .
Do not store near heat or open flame .
Exposure to temperatures above 120 ° F may cause bursting .
Never throw container into fire or incinerator .
Avoid spraying in eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
For questions related to proper use and maintenance of your PROAIR HFA inhaler , please call Teva Respiratory customer service at 1 - 888 - 482 - 9522 .
Mktd by : Teva Respiratory , LLC Horsham , PA 19044 Mfd by : IVAX Pharmaceuticals Ireland Waterford , Ireland Copyright © 2010 , Teva Respiratory , LLC All rights reserved .
PROAIR ® HFA is a registered trademark of Teva Respiratory , LLC Manufactured In Ireland PE 2237 Rev . 07 / 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Repacked by : H . J . Harkins Company , Inc .
Nipomo , CA 93444 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Inhaler Carton NDC 59310 - 579 - 20 ProAir ® HFA ( albuterol sulfate ) Inhalation Aerosol For Oral Inhalation with ProAir ® HFA Actuator Only Rx only 200 Metered Inhalations CFC FREE TEVA TEVA RESPIRATORY Contains no chlorofluorocarbons ( CFC ' s ) 8 . 5 g Net Contents [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
