1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is indicated for modified barium swallow examinations to evaluate the oral and pharyngeal function and morphology in adult and pediatric patients .
VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is a radiopaque contrast agent indicated for use in modified barium swallow examinations to evaluate the oral and pharyngeal function and morphology in adult and pediatric patients ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For oral use only – once reconstituted , administer by infant bottle , syringe , spoon , or cup .
The recommended dose is : ● Adults : 5 mL ● Pediatric patients 6 months and older : 1 mL to 3 mL ● Pediatric patients younger than 6 months of age : 0 . 5 mL to 1 mL • During a single modified barium swallow examination , multiple doses may be administered • Maximum cumulative dose : 80 mL ( 2 . 1 ) • Must reconstitute supplied powder with water prior to use .
See Full Prescribing Information for reconstitution instructions ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing and Administration Instructions • The recommended dose of reconstituted VARIBAR THIN LIQUID administered orally by infant bottle , syringe , spoon , or cup is : • Adults : 5 mL • Pediatric patients 6 months and older : 1 mL to 3 mL • Pediatric patients younger than 6 months of age : 0 . 5 mL to 1 mL • During a single modified barium swallow examination , multiple doses of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID may be administered , to assess the patient during multiple swallows and different radiographic views .
• The maximum cumulative dose is 80 mL .
• For oral use only • Advise patients to hydrate following the barium sulfate procedure .
2 . 2 Instructions for Reconstitution The VARIBAR THIN LIQUID powder must be reconstituted prior to administration by a healthcare provider according to the following instructions : • Add water to the fill line on the bottle label • Replace the lid securely • Invert the bottle and tap with fingers to mix the powder into the water • Shake vigorously for 30 seconds .
Let stand for 5 minutes • Refill with water to the fill line on the bottle label and reshake thoroughly .
• Once reconstituted , write the discard after date on the immediate container label .
After reconstitution , store in refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36ºF to 46ºF ) for up to 72 hours .
• Reconstitution yields approximately 300 mL of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID oral suspension containing 0 . 4 grams of barium sulfate per mL ( 40 % w / v ) and should be homogeneous and white to lightly colored .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS For oral suspension : 120 grams of barium sulfate supplied as a white to lightly colored powder ( 81 % w / w ) in a multiple - dose plastic bottle for reconstitution .
For oral suspension : 120 g barium sulfate ( 81 % w / w ) supplied in a multiple - dose bottle for reconstitution ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is contraindicated in patients with : • known or suspected perforation of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract • known obstruction of the GI tract • high risk of GI perforation such as those with a recent GI perforation , acute GI hemorrhage or ischemia , toxic megacolon , severe ileus , post GI surgery or biopsy , acute GI injury or burn , or recent radiotherapy to the pelvis • high risk of aspiration such as those with known or suspected tracheo - esophageal fistula or obtundation • known severe hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID • Known or suspected perforation of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract ( 4 ) • Known obstruction of the GI tract ( 4 ) • Conditions associated with high risk of GI perforation or aspiration ( 4 ) • Known hypersensitivity to barium sulfate or any of the excipients of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity reactions : Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available ( 5 . 1 ) • Intra - abdominal leakage : May occur in conditions such as GI fistula , ulcer , inflammatory bowel disease , appendicitis or diverticulitis , severe stenosis or obstructing lesions of the GI tract ( 5 . 2 ) • Delayed GI transit and obstruction : Patients should maintain adequate hydration in days following barium sulfate procedure to avoid obstruction or impaction ( 5 . 3 ) • Aspiration pneumonitis : Aspiration may occur during the modified barium swallow examination , monitor the patient for aspiration ( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Barium sulfate preparations contain a number of excipients , including natural and artificial flavors and may induce serious hypersensitivity reactions .
The manifestations include hypotension , bronchospasm and other respiratory impairments , and dermal reactions including rashes , urticaria and itching .
A history of bronchial asthma , atopy , food allergies , or a previous reaction to a contrast agent may increase the risk for hypersensitivity reactions .
Emergency equipment and trained personnel should be immediately available for treatment of a hypersensitivity reaction .
5 . 2 Intra - abdominal Barium Leakage The use of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is contraindicated in patients at high risk of perforation of the GI tract [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Administration of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID may result in leakage of barium from the GI tract in the presence of conditions such as carcinomas , GI fistula , inflammatory bowel disease , gastric or duodenal ulcer , appendicitis , or diverticulitis , and in patients with a severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , especially if it is distal to the stomach .
The barium leakage has been associated with peritonitis and granuloma formation .
5 . 3 Delayed Gastrointestinal Transit and Obstruction Orally administered barium sulfate may accumulate proximal to a constricting lesion of the colon , causing obstruction or impaction with development of baroliths ( inspissated barium associated with feces ) and may lead to abdominal pain , appendicitis , bowel obstruction , or rarely perforation .
Patients with the following conditions are at higher risk for developing obstruction or baroliths : severe stenosis at any level of the GI tract , impaired GI motility , electrolyte imbalance , dehydration , on a low residue diet , taking medications that delay GI motility , constipation , pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease , and the elderly [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 , 8 . 5 ) ] .
To reduce the risk of delayed GI transit and obstruction , patients should maintain adequate hydration after the barium sulfate procedure .
5 . 4 Aspiration Pneumonitis The use of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is contraindicated in patients with trachea - esophageal fistula [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Oral administration of barium is associated with aspiration pneumonitis , especially in patients with a history of food aspiration or with compromised swallowing mechanism .
Vomiting following oral administration of barium sulfate may lead to aspiration pneumonitis .
In patients at risk for aspiration , begin the procedure with a small ingested volume of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID .
Monitor the patient closely for aspiration , discontinue administration of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID if aspiration is suspected , and monitor for development of aspiration pneumonitis .
5 . 5 Systemic Embolization Barium sulfate products may occasionally intravasate into the venous drainage of the GI tract and enter the circulation as a " barium embolus " leading to potentially fatal complications which include systemic and pulmonary embolism , disseminated intravascular coagulation , septicemia and prolonged severe hypotension .
Although this complication is exceedingly uncommon after oral administration of a barium sulfate suspension , monitor patients for potential intravasation when administering barium sulfate .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous reporting or clinical studies of barium sulfate administered orally .
Because the reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure : • Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping • Serious adverse reactions and fatalities include aspiration pneumonitis , barium sulfate impaction , intestinal perforation with consequent peritonitis and granuloma formation , vasovagal and syncopal episodes Common adverse reactions include nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and abdominal cramping ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1 - 800 - 257 - 5181 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is not absorbed systemically following oral administration , and maternal use is not expected to result in fetal exposure to the drug .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is not absorbed systemically by the mother following oral administration , and breastfeeding is not expected to result in exposure of the infant to the drug .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The efficacy of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID in pediatric patients is based on successful opacification of the pharynx during modified barium swallow examinations [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 1 ) ] .
Safety and dosing recommendations in pediatric patients are based on clinical experience .
VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is contraindicated in pediatric patients with trachea - esophageal fistula .
[ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Pediatric patients with a history of asthma or food allergies may be at increased risk for development of hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Monitor patients with cystic fibrosis or Hirschsprung disease for bowel obstruction after use [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of VARIBAR THIN LIQUID did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION VARIBAR THIN LIQUID ( barium sulfate ) is a radiographic contrast agent that is supplied as a white to lightly colored powder for suspension ( 81 % w / w ) with an apple aroma for oral administration .
The active ingredient barium sulfate is designated chemically as BaSO4 with a molecular weight of 233 . 4 g / mol , a density of 4 . 5 g / cm3 , and the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] VARIBAR THIN LIQUID has a viscosity of < 15 cPs when reconstituted and contains the following excipients : carboxymethylcellulose sodium , citric acid , maltodextrin , natural and artificial apple flavor , polysorbate 80 , saccharin sodium , simethicone , sodium citrate , sorbitol and xylitol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Due to its high atomic number , barium ( the active ingredient in VARIBAR THIN LIQUID ) is opaque to x - rays and therefore acts as a positive contrast agent for radiographic studies .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Barium sulfate is biologically inert and has no known pharmacological effects .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Under physiological conditions , barium sulfate passes through the gastrointestinal tract in an unchanged form and is absorbed only in small , pharmacologically insignificant amounts .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of barium sulfate or potential effects on fertility .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied VARIBAR THIN LIQUID is supplied as a white to lightly colored powder in a multiple - dose polyethylene bottle containing 120 grams of barium sulfate ( 81 % w / w ) .
Provided as : 24 x 148 g bottles ( NDC 32909 - 105 - 10 ) 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at USP controlled room temperature 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION After administration , advise patients to : • Maintain adequate hydration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Seek medical attention for worsening of constipation or slow gastrointestinal passage [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Seek medical attention for any delayed onset of hypersensitivity : rash , urticaria , or respiratory difficulty [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Rx Only Manufactured by EZEM Canada Inc Anjou ( Quebec ) Canada H1J 2Z4 For Bracco Diagnostics Inc .
Monroe Township , NJ 08831 VARIBAR is a registered trademark of E - Z - EM , Inc .
Varibar ® Thin Liquid - Barium Sulfate for Suspension NDC : 32909 - 105 - 10 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
