FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR USE IN EYES .
Rx Only DESCRIPTION Ciclopirox gel 0 . 77 % contains a synthetic antifungal agent , ciclopirox USP .
It is intended for topical dermatologic use only .
Each gram of ciclopirox gel contains 7 . 70 mg of ciclopirox USP in a gel consisting of carbomer homopolymer , isopropyl alcohol , and medium chain triglycerides , sodium hydroxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , and purified water .
Ciclopirox gel is a white , slightly fluid gel .
The chemical name for ciclopirox USP is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridinone , with the empirical formula C12H17NO2 and a molecular weight of 207 . 27 .
The CAS Registry Number is [ 29342 - 05 - 0 ] .
The chemical structure is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Ciclopirox is a hydroxypyridone antifungal agent although the relevance of this property for the indication of seborrheic dermatitis is not known .
Ciclopirox acts by chelation of polyvalent cations ( Fe3 + or Al3 + ) , resulting in the inhibition of the metal - dependent enzymes that are responsible for the degradation of peroxides within the fungal cell .
Pharmacokinetics A comparative study of the pharmacokinetics of ciclopirox gel and ciclopirox cream ( ciclopirox olamine ) 0 . 77 % in 18 healthy males indicated that systemic absorption of ciclopirox from ciclopirox gel was higher than that of ciclopirox cream .
A 5 gm dose of ciclopirox gel produced a mean ( ± SD ) peak serum concentration of 25 . 02 ( ± 20 . 6 ) ng / mL total ciclopirox and 5 gm of ciclopirox cream produced 18 . 62 ( ± 13 . 56 ) ng / mL total ciclopirox .
Approximately 3 % of the applied ciclopirox was excreted in the urine within 48 hours after application , with a renal elimination half - life of about 5 . 5 hours .
In a study of ciclopirox gel , 16 men with moderate to severe tinea cruris applied approximately 15 grams / day of the gel for 14 . 5 days .
The mean ( ± SD ) dose - normalized values of Cmax for total ciclopirox in serum were 100 ( ± 42 ) ng / mL on Day 1 and 238 ( ± 144 ) ng / mL on Day 15 .
During the 10 hours after dosing on Day 1 , approximately 10 % of the administered dose was excreted in the urine .
Microbiology Ciclopirox is a hydroxypyridinone antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic dermatophytes .
Ciclopirox has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms both in vitro and in clinical infections as described in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section : Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , and Epidermophyton floccosum INDICATIONS AND USAGE Superficial Dermatophyte Infections Ciclopirox gel is indicated for the topical treatment of interdigital tinea pedis and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , or Epidermophyton floccosum .
Seborrheic Dermatitis Ciclopirox gel is indicated for the topical treatment of seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Ciclopirox gel is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Ciclopirox gel is not for ophthalmic , oral , or intravaginal use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONS If a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of ciclopirox gel , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
A transient burning sensation may occur , especially after application to sensitive areas .
Avoid contact with eyes .
Efficacy of ciclopirox gel in immunosuppressed individuals has not been studied .
Seborrheic dermatitis in association with acne , atopic dermatitis , Parkinsonism , psoriasis and rosacea has not been studied with ciclopirox gel .
Efficacy in the treatment of plantar and vesicular types of tinea pedis has not been established .
Information for Patients The patient should be told the following : • 1 .
Use ciclopirox gel as directed by the physician .
Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
Ciclopirox gel is for external use only .
• 2 .
Use the medication for fungal infections for the full treatment time even though symptoms may have improved , and notify the physician if there is no improvement after 4 weeks .
• 3 .
A transient burning / stinging sensation may be felt .
This may occur in approximately 15 % to 20 % of cases , when ciclopirox gel is used to treat seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp .
• 4 .
Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation or possible sensitization ( redness with itching , burning , blistering , swelling , and / or oozing ) .
• 5 .
Avoid the use of occlusive dressings .
• 6 .
Do not use this medication for any disorder other than that for which it is prescribed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 104 - week dermal carcinogenicity study in mice was conducted with ciclopirox cream formulation applied at doses up to 1 . 93 % ( 100 mg / kg / day or 300 mg / m2 / day ) .
No increase in drug related neopalsms was noted when compared to control .
The following in vitro genotoxicity tests have been conducted with ciclopirox : evaluation of gene mutation in the Ames Salmonella and E . coli assays ( negative ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells , with and without metabolic activation ( positive ) ; chromosome aberration assays in V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells in the presence of supplemental Fe3 + , with and without metabolic activation ( negative ) ; gene mutation assays in the HGPRT - test with V79 Chinese hamster lung fibroblast cells ( negative ) ; and a primary DNA damage assay ( i . e . , unscheduled DNA synthesis assay in A549 human cells ) ( negative ) .
An in vitro cell transformation assay in BALB / c 3T3 cells was negative for cell transformation .
In an in vivo Chinese hamster bone marrow cytogenetic assay , ciclopirox was negative for chromosome aberrations at a dosage of 5000 mg / kg body weight .
A combined oral fertility and embryofetal developmental study was conducted in rats with ciclopirox olamine .
No effect on fertility or reproductive performance was noted at the highest dose tested of 3 . 85 mg / kg / day ciclopirox ( approximately 1 . 2 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category B There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Therefore , ciclopirox gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Oral embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys .
Ciclopirox or ciclopirox olamine was orally administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 77 , 125 , 80 and 38 . 5 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in mice , rats , rabbits and monkeys , respectively ( approximately 11 , 37 , 51 and 24 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Dermal embryofetal developmental studies were conducted in rats and rabbits with ciclopirox olamine dissolved in PEG 400 .
Ciclopirox olamine was topically administered during the period of organogenesis .
No maternal toxicity , embryotoxicity or teratogenicity were noted at the highest doses of 92 mg / kg / day and 77 mg / kg / day ciclopirox in rats and rabbits , respectively ( approximately 27 and 49 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area comparisons , respectively ) .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Since many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ciclopirox gel is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use The efficacy and safety of ciclopirox gel in pediatric patients below the age of 16 years have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In clinical trials , 140 ( 39 % ) of 359 subjects treated with ciclopirox gel reported adverse experiences , irrespective of relationship to test materials , which resulted in 8 subjects discontinuing treatment .
The most frequent experience reported was skin burning sensation upon application , which occurred in approximately 34 % of seborrheic dermatitis patients and 7 % of tinea pedis patients .
Adverse experiences occurring between 1 % to 5 % were contact dermatitis and pruritus .
Other reactions that occurred in less than 1 % included dry skin , acne , rash , alopecia , pain upon application , eye pain , and facial edema .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Superficial Dermatophyte Infections Gently massage ciclopirox gel into the affected areas and surrounding skin twice daily , in the morning and evening immediately after cleaning or washing the areas to be treated .
Interdigital tinea pedis and tinea corporis should be treated for 4 weeks .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
Seborrheic Dermatitis of the Scalp Apply ciclopirox gel to affected scalp areas twice daily , in the morning and evening for 4 weeks .
Clinical improvement usually occurs within the first week with continuing resolution of signs and symptoms through the fourth week of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after 4 weeks of treatment , the diagnosis should be reviewed .
HOW SUPPLIED Ciclopirox gel 0 . 77 % is supplied in aluminium tubes and LDPE tubes .
30 g tubes ( NDC 68462 - 455 - 35 ) , 45 g tubes ( NDC 68462 - 455 - 47 ) and 100 g tubes ( NDC 68462 - 455 - 94 ) .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited Colvale - Bardez , Goa 403 513 , India Manufactured for : Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc . , USA Mahwah , NJ 07430 Questions ?
1 ( 888 ) 721 - 7115 www . glenmarkpharma . com / usa January 2017 PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
