Active Ingredient Psyllium ( Ispaghula ) husk 2 . 45 g Purpose Fiber therapy for healthy bowel regularity Uses - Treatment of occasional constipation to restore healthy bowel regularity Warnings Choking : The product should be taken with at least one full glass ( 8 oz ) of liquid .
Without enough liquid it may swell and obstruct throat and esophagus and cause choking .
If you have difficulty in swallowing do not take this product .
In taking the product if you feel difficulty in swallowing , breathing problems , chest pain , vomiting , seek immediate medical attention .
Allergy alert : Allergic reactions may occur in those sensitive to inhaling or ingesting psyllium husk .
Consult a doctor before use : - if you have a sudden change in bowel functions that persists for ten days or more - if you suffer from abdominal pain , nausea or vomiting .
Discontinue and ask a doctor if - your constipation lasts seven days or more - you experience rectal bleeding Either of these may be a sign of a serious medical condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
The product should be administered to children under adult supervision ; and in case of child overdose .
Contact a physician or a poison control center immediately .
Directions Mix one sachet of Mucilin briskly with at least one full glass ( 8 oz ) of water or other liquid such as fruit juice or milk and drink immediately .
Take another glass of fluid .
Without sufficient liquid , the natural swelling of the product may cause choking .
Please see Warnings .
Do not take the product just before bedtime , or while lying down .
Adults 12 yrs .
& older 1 sachet in 8 oz of liquid , may be taken 3 times a day .
Children 6 - 11 yrs .
½ of adult dose may be taken 3 times a day .
Under 6 yrs .
Not recommended , but consult a doctor .
New Users Start with 1 dose per day , gradually increase to 3 as necessary .
Product normally effects within 12 hrs .
– 48 hrs .
Due to increased fiber intake you may experience minor bloating , and change in bowel routine .
Other Information One sachet contains : sodium 7 mg Store at room temperature .
Contains 100 % natural soluble fiber Inactive Ingredients Anhydrous citric acid , colloidal silicon dioxide , dextrose anhydrous , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , orange flavor , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sucrose Questions ?
Questions ?
Call toll free : 833 - MUCILIN ® SPL UNCLASSIFIED SECTION Imported and Distributed by : Paradigm Pharmaceuticals Inc .
501 Fifth Avenue , Suite 701 , New York , New York 10017 , U . S . A . Under license from : Paradigm Pharmaceuticals Inc . , U . S . A . Manufactured by : Berlin Pharmaceutical Industry Co . , Ltd .
Bangkok , Thailand Product Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
