Active ingredients Camphor 5 . 3 % Eucalyptus oil 1 . 3 % Menthol 2 . 8 % Purpose Camphor - Cough suppressant / topical analgesic Eucalyptus oil - Cough suppressant Menthol - Cough suppressant / topical analgesic Uses • temporarily relieves cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation associated with a cold • temporarily relieves cough to help you sleep • temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use if you have • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • chronic cough that lasts or as occurs with smoking , asthma , or emphysema When using this product • do not heat , microwave , or add to hot water or any container where heating water .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
• do not take by mouth or place in nostrils • do not bandage tightly • do not get into eyes • do not apply to wounds or damaged skin Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
• muscle aches and pains persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • see important warning under " When using this product " • adults and children 2 years and over : • rub a thick layer on the throat and chest for cough , or rub on sore , aching muscles or joints • cover with a warm , dry cloth if desired • clothing should be left loose about the throat and chest to help vapors reach the nose and mouth • use up to 3 times daily , or as directed by a doctor • children under 2 years : ask a doctor Inactive ingredients carthamus tinctorius ( safflower ) seed oil , chamomilla recutita ( matricaria ) flower , fragrance , lavandula angustifolia ( lavender ) flower , rosmarinus officinalis ( rosemary ) leaf oil , white petrolatum Questions ?
1 - 877 - 636 - 2677 MON - FRI 9 AM to 5 PM ( EST ) Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
