1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ursodiol Tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis ( PBC ) .
Ursodiol tablets , USP are bile acids indicated for the treatment of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Recommended adult dosage : 13 to 15 mg / kg / day administered in two to four divided doses with food ( 2 . 1 ) • • Scored ursodiol 500 mg tablet : scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage ( 2 . 2 , 16 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information The recommended adult dosage for ursodiol in the treatment of PBC is 13 to 15 mg / kg / day administered in two to four divided doses with food .
Dosing regimen should be adjusted according to each patient ’ s need at the discretion of the physician .
2 . 2 Liver Function Tests Liver Function Tests ( y - GT , alkaline phosphatase , AST , ALT ) and bilirubin levels should be monitored every month for the three months after start of therapy , and every six months thereafter [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
2 . 3 Scoring the Ursodiol 500 mg Tablet The ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet can be broken in halves to provide recommended dosage .
To break ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet easily , place the tablet on a flat surface with the scored section on top .
Hold the tablet with your thumbs placed close to the scored part of the tablet ( groove ) .
Then apply gentle pressure and snap the tablet segments apart ( segments breaking incorrectly should not be used ) .
The segments should be washed down unchewed , with water , keeping the segments in the mouth can reveal a bitter taste .
Due to the bitter taste , segments should be stored separately from whole tablets .
[ see How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 . 2 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS • • Ursodiol 250 mg tablet • • Ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet Ursodiol 250 mg tablet ( 3 ) Ursodiol 500 mg scored tablet ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Patients with complete biliary obstruction and known hypersensitivity or intolerance to ursodiol or any of the components of the formulation .
Patients with complete biliary obstruction and known hypersensitivity or intolerance to ursodiol or any of the components of the formulation ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Patients with variceal bleeding , hepatic encephalopathy , ascites or in need of an urgent liver transplant , should receive appropriate specific treatment .
• • Patients with variceal bleeding , hepatic encephalopathy , ascites or in need of an urgent liver transplant , should receive appropriate specific treatment ( 5 ) .
• • Liver function tests ( y - GT , alkaline phosphatase , AST , ALT ) and bilirubin level should be monitored .
Treatment discontinuation should be considered if parameters increase to a level considered clinically significant in patients with stable historical liver function test levels ( 5 ) .
• • Caution should be exercised to maintain patient ' s bile flow ( 5 ) .
5 . 1 Abnormal Liver Function Tests Liver function tests ( y - GT , alkaline phosphatase , AST , ALT ) and bilirubin levels should be monitored every month for three months after start of therapy , and every six months thereafter .
This monitoring will allow the early detection of a possible deterioration of the hepatic function .
Treatment discontinuation should be considered if the above parameters increase to a level considered clinically significant in patients with stable historical liver function test levels .
Caution has to be exercised to maintain the bile flow of the patients taking ursodiol .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions reported with the use of ursodiol during worldwide postmarketing and clinical experience ( ≥ 1 % ) are , in alphabetical order : abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , alopecia , diarrhea , nausea , pruritus , and rash ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Par Pharmaceutical at 1 - 800 - 828 - 9393 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The following table summarizes the adverse reactions observed in two placebo - controlled clinical trials .
ADVERSE REACTIONS VISIT AT 12 MONTHS VISIT AT 24 MONTHS UDCA n ( % ) Placebo n ( % ) UDCA n ( % ) Placebo n ( % ) Diarrhea --- --- 1 ( 1 . 32 ) --- Elevated creatinine --- --- 1 ( 1 . 32 ) --- Elevated blood glucose 1 ( 1 . 18 ) --- 1 ( 1 . 32 ) --- Leukopenia --- --- 2 ( 2 . 63 ) --- Peptic ulcer --- --- 1 ( 1 . 32 ) --- Skin rash --- --- 2 ( 2 . 63 ) --- Thrombocytopenia --- --- 1 ( 1 . 32 ) --- Note : Those adverse reactions occurring at the same or higher incidence in the placebo as in the UDCA group have been deleted from this table ( this includes diarrhea and thrombocytopenia at 12 months , nausea / vomiting , fever and other toxicity ) .
UDCA = Ursodeoxycholic acid = Ursodiol In a randomized , cross - over study in sixty PBC patients , seven patients ( 11 . 6 % ) reported nine adverse reactions : abdominal pain and asthenia ( 1 patient ) , nausea ( 3 patients ) , dyspepsia ( 2 patients ) and anorexia and esophagitis ( 1 patient each ) .
One patient on the twice a day regimen ( total dose 1 , 000 mg ) withdrew due to nausea .
All of these nine adverse reactions except esophagitis were observed with the twice a day regimen at a total daily dose of 1 , 000 mg or greater .
However , an adverse reaction may occur at any dose .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions , presented by system organ class in alphabetical order , have been identified during postapproval use of ursodiol .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
• • Gastrointestinal disorders : abdominal discomfort , abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , nausea , vomiting .
• • General disorders and administration site conditions : malaise , peripheral edema , pyrexia .
• • Hepatobiliary disorders : jaundice ( or aggravation of preexisting jaundice ) .
• • Immune System Disorders : Drug hypersensitivity to include facial edema , urticaria , angioedema and laryngeal edema .
• • Abnormal Laboratory Tests : ALT increased , AST increased , blood alkaline phosphatase increased , blood bilirubin increased , y - GT increased , hepatic enzyme increased , liver function test abnormal , transaminases increased .
• • Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders : myalgia • • Nervous system disorders : dizziness , headache .
• • Respiratory , thoracic and mediastinal disorders : cough .
• • Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorder : alopecia , pruritus , rash .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • • Bile Acid Sequestering Agents : May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption ( 7 . 1 ) • • Aluminum - based Antacids : May interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption ( 7 . 2 ) • • Drugs that alter the metabolism of lipids or induce cholestasis may interfere with the action of ursodiol ( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Bile Acid Sequestering Agents Bile acid sequestering agents such as cholestyramine and colestipol may interfere with the action of ursodiol by reducing its absorption .
7 . 2 Aluminum - based Antacids Aluminum - based antacids have been shown to adsorb bile acids in vitro and may be expected to interfere with ursodiol in the same manner as the bile acid sequestering agents .
7 . 3 Drugs Affecting Lipid Metabolism Estrogens , oral contraceptives , and clofibrate ( and perhaps other lipid - lowering drugs ) increase hepatic cholesterol secretion and encourage cholesterol gallstone formation and hence may counteract the effectiveness of ursodiol .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in pregnant rats at oral doses up to 22 times the recommended maximum human dose ( based on body surface area ) and in pregnant rabbits at oral doses up to 7 times the recommended maximum human dose ( based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to ursodiol .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether ursodiol is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when ursodiol are administered to a nursing mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of ursodiol in pediatric patients have not been established .
10 OVERDOSAGE There have been no reports of accidental or intentional overdosage with ursodiol .
Single oral doses of ursodiol at 10 g / kg in mice and dogs , and 5 g / kg in rats were not lethal .
A single oral dose of ursodiol at 1 . 5 g / kg was lethal in hamsters .
Symptoms of acute toxicity were salivation and vomiting in dogs , and ataxia , dyspnea , ptosis , agonal convulsions and coma in hamsters .
11 DESCRIPTION Ursodiol Tablets , USP 250 mg are available as a film - coated tablet for oral administration .
Ursodiol Tablets , USP 500 mg are available as a scored film - coated tablet for oral administration .
Ursodiol ( ursodeoxycholic acid , UDCA ) is a naturally occurring bile acid found in small quantities in normal human bile and in larger quantities in the biles of certain species of bears .
It is a bitter - tasting white powder consisting of crystalline particles freely soluble in ethanol and glacial acetic acid , slightly soluble in chloroform , sparingly soluble in ether , and practically insoluble in water .
The chemical name of ursodiol is 3α , 7ß - dihydroxy - 5ß - cholan - 24 - oic ( C24H40O4 ) .
Ursodiol has a molecular weight of 392 . 56 .
Its structure is shown below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Inactive ingredients : caprylic / capric triglycerides , copovidone , hypromellose , microcrystalline cellulose , magnesium stearate , povidone , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol 3350 , sodium starch glycolate type A and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Ursodiol , a naturally occurring hydrophilic bile acid , derived from cholesterol , is present as a minor fraction of the total human bile acid pool .
Oral administration of ursodiol increases this fraction in a dose related manner , to become the major biliary acid , replacing / displacing toxic concentrations of endogenous hydrophobic bile acids that tend to accumulate in cholestatic liver disease .
In addition to the replacement and displacement of toxic bile acids , other mechanisms of action include cytoprotection of the injured bile duct epithelial cells ( cholangiocytes ) against toxic effects of bile acids , inhibition of apotosis of hepatocytes , immunomodulatory effects , and stimulation of bile secretion by hepatocytes and cholangiocytes .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Lithocholic acid , when administered chronically to animals , causes cholestatic liver injury that may lead to death from liver failure in certain species unable to form sulfate conjugates .
Ursodiol is 7 - dehydroxylated more slowly than chenodiol .
For equimolar doses of ursodiol and chenodiol , steady state levels of lithocholic acid in biliary bile acids are lower during ursodiol administration than with chenodiol administration .
Humans and chimpanzees can sulfate lithocholic acid .
Although liver injury has not been associated with ursodiol therapy , a reduced capacity to sulfate may exist in some individuals .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Ursodiol ( UDCA ) is normally present as a minor fraction of the total bile acids in humans ( about 5 % ) .
Following oral administration , the majority of ursodiol is absorbed by passive diffusion and its absorption is incomplete .
Once absorbed , ursodiol undergoes hepatic extraction to the extent of about 50 % in the absence of liver disease .
As the severity of liver disease increases , the extent of extraction decreases .
In the liver , ursodiol is conjugated with glycine or taurine , then secreted into bile .
These conjugates of ursodiol are absorbed in the small intestine by passive and active mechanisms .
The conjugates can also be deconjugated in the ileum by intestinal enzymes , leading to the formation of free ursodiol that can be reabsorbed and reconjugated in the liver .
Nonabsorbed ursodiol passes into the colon where it is mostly 7 - dehydroxylated to lithocholic acid .
Some ursodiol is epimerized to chenodiol ( CDCA ) via a 7 - oxo intermediate .
Chenodiol also undergoes 7 - dehydroxylation to form lithocholic acid .
These metabolites are poorly soluble and excreted in the feces .
A small portion of lithocholic acid is reabsorbed , conjugated in the liver with glycine , or taurine and sulfated at the 3 position .
The resulting sulfated lithocholic acid conjugates are excreted in bile and then lost in feces .
In healthy subjects , at least 70 % of ursodiol ( unconjugated ) is bound to plasma protein .
No information is available on the binding of conjugated ursodiol to plasma protein in healthy subjects or PBC patients .
Its volume of distribution has not been determined , but is expected to be small since the drug is mostly distributed in the bile and small intestine .
Ursodiol is excreted primarily in the feces .
With treatment , urinary excretion increases , but remains less than 1 % except in severe cholestatic liver disease .
During chronic administration of ursodiol , it becomes a major biliary and plasma bile acid .
At a chronic dose of 13 to 15 mg / kg / day , ursodiol constitutes 30 to 50 % of biliary and plasma bile acids .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility In two 24 - month oral carcinogenicity studies in mice , ursodiol at doses up to 1 , 000 mg / kg / day ( 3 , 000 mg / m2 / day ) was not tumorigenic .
Based on body surface area , for a 50 kg person of average height ( 1 . 46 m2 body surface area ) , this dose represents 5 . 4 times the recommended maximum clinical dose of 15 mg / kg / day ( 555 mg / m2 / day ) .
In a two - year oral carcinogenicity study in Fischer 344 rats , ursodiol at doses up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 1 , 800 mg / m2 / day , 3 . 2 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) was not tumorigenic .
In a life - span ( 126 to 138 weeks ) oral carcinogenicity study , Sprague - Dawley rats were treated with doses of 33 to 300 mg / kg / day , 0 . 4 to 3 . 2 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area .
Ursodiol produced a significantly ( p ≤ 0 . 5 , Fisher ' s exact test ) increased incidence of pheochromocytomas of the adrenal medulla in females of the highest dose group .
In 103 - week oral carcinogenicity studies of lithocholic acid , a metabolite of ursodiol , doses up to 250 mg / kg / day in mice and 500 mg / kg / day in rats did not produce any tumors .
In a 78 - week rat study , intrarectal instillation of lithocholic acid ( 1 mg / kg / day ) for 13 months did not produce colorectal tumors .
A tumor - promoting effect was observed when it was administered after a single intrarectal dose of a known carcinogen N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine .
On the other hand , in a 32 - week rat study , ursodiol at a daily dose of 240 mg / kg ( 1 , 440 mg / m2 , 2 . 6 times the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area ) suppressed the colonic carcinogenic effect of another known carcinogen azoxymethane .
Ursodiol was not genotoxic in the Ames test , the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y , TK + / - ) forward mutation test , the human lymphocyte sister chromatid exchange test , the mouse spermatogonia chromosome aberration test , the Chinese hamster micronucleus test and the Chinese hamster bone marrow cell chromosome aberration test .
Ursodiol at oral doses of up to 2 , 700 mg / kg / day ( 16 , 200 mg / m2 / day , 29 times the recommended maximum human dose based on body surface area ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Efficacy of Ursodeoxycholic Acid Administered at 13 to 15 mg / kg / day in 3 or 4 Divided Doses to PBC Patients A U . S . , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of ursodeoxycholic acid at a dose of 13 to 15 mg / kg / day , administered in 3 or 4 divided doses in 180 patients with PBC ( 78 % received four times a day dosage ) .
Upon completion of the double - blind portion , all patients entered an open - label active treatment extension phase .
Treatment failure , the main efficacy end point measured during this study , was defined as death , need for liver transplantation , histologic progression by two stages or to cirrhosis , development of varices , ascites or encephalopathy , marked worsening of fatigue or pruritus , inability to tolerate the drug , doubling of serum bilirubin and voluntary withdrawal .
After two years of double - blind treatment , the incidence of treatment failure was significantly ( p < 0 . 01 ) reduced in the ursodiol 250 mg group ( 20 of 86 ( 23 % ) ) as compared to the placebo group ( 40 of 86 ( 47 % ) ) .
Time to treatment failure , which excluded doubling of serum bilirubin and voluntary withdrawal , was also significantly ( p < 0 . 001 ) delayed in the ursodiol 250 mg treated group ( n = 86 , 803 . 8 ± 24 . 9 d vs . 641 . 1 ± 24 . 4 d for the placebo group ( n = 86 ) on average ) regardless of either histologic stage or baseline bilirubin levels ( > 1 . 8 or ≤ 1 . 8 mg / dl ) .
Using a definition of treatment failure , which excluded doubling of serum bilirubin and voluntary withdrawal , time to treatment failure was significantly delayed in the ursodiol 250 mg group .
In comparison with placebo , treatment with ursodiol 250 mg resulted in a significant improvement in the following serum hepatic biochemistries when compared to baseline : total bilirubin , SGOT , alkaline phosphatase and IgM .
14 . 2 Efficacy of Ursodiol Administered at 14 mg / kg / day as a Once Daily Dose to PBC Patients A second study conducted in Canada randomized 222 PBC patients to ursodiol , 14 mg / kg / day or placebo , administered as a once daily dose in a double - blind manner during a two - year period .
At two years , a statistically significant ( p < 0 . 001 ) difference between the two treatments ( n = 106 for the ursodiol 250 mg group and n = 106 for the placebo group ) , in favor of ursodiol , was demonstrated in the following : reduction in the proportion of patients exhibiting a more than 50 % increase in serum bilirubin ; median percent decrease in bilirubin ( - 17 . 12 % for the ursodiol 250 mg group vs . + 20 . 00 % for the placebo group ) , transaminases ( - 40 . 54 % for the ursodiol 250 mg group vs . + 5 . 71 % for the placebo group ) and alkaline phosphatase ( - 47 . 61 % for the ursodiol 250 mg group vs . - 5 . 69 % for the placebo group ) ; incidence of treatment failure ; and time to treatment failure .
The definition of treatment failure included : discontinuing the study for any reason ; a total serum bilirubin level greater than or equal to 1 . 5 mg / dl or increasing to a level equal to or greater than two times the baseline level ; and the development of ascites or encephalopathy .
Evaluation of patients at 4 years or longer was inadequate due to the high drop out rate ( n = 10 withdrew from the ursodiol 250 mg group vs . n = 15 from the placebo group ) and small number of patients .
Therefore , death , need for liver transplantation , histological progression by two stages or to cirrhosis , development of varices , ascites or encephalopathy , marked worsening of fatigue or pruritus , inability to tolerate the drug , doubling of serum bilirubin and voluntary withdrawal were not assessed .
14 . 3 Efficacy of Ursodiol 250 mg Administered in Twice a Day Versus Four Times a Day Divided Dosing Schedules to PBC Patients A randomized , two - period crossover study in fifty PBC patients compared efficacy of ursodiol 250 mg in twice a day versus four times a day divided dosing schedules in 50 patients for 6 months in each crossover period .
Mean percent changes from baseline in liver test results and Mayo risk score ( n = 46 ) and serum enrichment with UDCA ( n = 34 ) were not statistically significant with any dosage at any time interval .
This study demonstrated that UDCA ( 13 to 15 mg / kg / day ) given twice a day is equally effective to UDCA given four times a day .
In addition , ursodiol 250 mg was given as a single versus three times a day dosing schedules in 10 patients .
Due to the small number of patients in this arm of the study , it was not possible to conduct statistical comparisons between these regimens .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 Ursodiol Tablet , USP 250 mg The 250 mg dosage form is a white to off - white , modified capsule shaped , film - coated tablet , imprinted with “ P ” and “ 412 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
Carton of 30 tablets ( 10 tablets each blister pack x 3 ) , NDC 0904 - 6890 - 04 16 . 2 Ursodiol Tablet , USP 500 mg Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP , with a child - resistant closure .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Appropriate Treatments Patients with the following conditions should be instructed to receive appropriate management measures : variceal bleeding , hepatic encephalopathy , ascites , in need of an urgent liver transplant or hepatic function deterioration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) ] .
Caution has to be exercised to maintain the bile flow of the patients taking ursodiol .
17 . 2 Drug Interactions Patients should be informed that absorption of ursodiol may be reduced if they are taking bile acid sequestering agents , such as cholestyramine and colestipol , aluminum - based antacids , or drugs known to alter the metabolism of cholesterol [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Rx Only Dist .
by : Par Pharmaceutical Chestnut Ridge , NY 10977 U . S . A . Product of Italy Mfg . by : Par Formulations Private Limited , 9 / 215 , Pudupakkam , Kelambakkam - 603 103 .
Made in India from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient made in Italy Mfg . Lic .
No . : TN00002121 Distributed By : MAJOR ® PHARMACEUTICALS Livonia , MI 48152 Refer to package label for Distributor ' s NDC Number OS412 - 01 - 74 - 01 R03 / 17 Package / Label Display Panel Ursodiol Tablets , USP 250 mg 30 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
