Ferrous Fumarate / Polysaccharide Iron Complex / Multivitamin Mineral Capsules Rx Only DESCRIPTION : Se - Tan PLUS are white capsules imprinted in black " T503 " .
Each capsule contains : Supplement FactsServings per Bottle : 90 Serving Size : 1 capsule Each Capsule contains : % DV for Adults Iron ( as ferrous fumarate anhydrous ) 32 . 5 mg 181 % Polysaccharide Iron Complex 115 . 2 mg 642 % Vitamin C ( Sodium Ascorbate ) 200 mg 222 % Vitamin B1 ( Thiamine Mononitrate ) 10 mg 833 % Vitamin B2 ( Riboflavin ) 6 mg 462 % Vitamin B 6 ( Pyridoxine HCl ) 5 mg 294 % Vitamin B 12 ( Cyanocobalamin Concentrate ) 15 mcg 250 % Folate ( folic acid ) 1000 mcg 250 % Niacinamide 30 mg 188 % Pantothenic Acid ( as Calcium Panothenate ) 10 mg 200 % Zinc ( as Zinc Sulfate ) 18 . 2 mg 165 % Manganese ( as Manganese Sulfate ) 1 . 3 mg 57 % Copper ( as Copper Sulfate ) 0 . 8 mg 89 % OTHER INGREDIENTS FD & C Blue # 1 , FD & C Red # 40 , FD & C Yellow # 6 , Gelatine , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose , Silica , Titanium Dioxide .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Oral iron is absorbed most efficiently when administered between meals .
Iron is critical for normal hemoglobin synthesis to maintain oxygen transport , energy production and proper function of cells .
Adequate amounts of iron are necessary for effective erythropoiesis .
Iron also serves as a cofactor of several essential enzymes , including cytochromes , which are involved in electron transport .
Folic acid is required for nucleoprotein synthesis and the maintenance of normal eryhtropoiesis .
Folic acid is the precursor of tetrahydrofolic acid , which is involved as a cofactor for transformylation reactions in the biosynthesis of purines and thymidylates of nucleic acids .
Deficiency of folic acid may account for the defective deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) synthesis that leads to megaloblast formation and megaloblasticmacrocytic anemias .
Vitamin B 12 is essential to growth , cell reproduction , hematopoiesis , nucleic acid , and mylein synthesis .
Deficiency may result in megaloblastic anemia or pernicious anemia .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Se - Tan PLUS is indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia and folate deficiency as in extended convalescence , menorrhagia , pregnancy , puberty , excessive blood loss and advanced age .
Also for treatment of condition in which iron deficiency and vitamin C deficiency occur together , along with a deficient intake or increased need for B - Complex vitamins in chronic and acute illness , as well as cases of metabolic stress , and in convalescence .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Se - Tan PLUS is contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any of its ingredients ; also , all iron compounds are contraindicated in patients with hemosiderosis , hemochromatosis , or hemolytic anemias .
Pernicious anemia is a contraindication , as folic acid may obscure its signs and symptoms .
WARNING : Folic acid alone is improper therapy in the treatment of pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias where Vitamin B12 is deficient .
WARNING : Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is the leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under six .
Keep this and all drugs out of reach of children .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg - 0 . 4 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia , in that hematological remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of this product have not been established in pediatric patients .
Geriatric Use : No clinical studies have been performed in patients age 65 and over to determine whether older persons respond differently from younger persons .
Dosage should always begin at the low end of the dosage scale and should consider that elderly persons may have decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function and or concomitant diseases .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Folic Acid : Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
Ferrous Fumarate : Gastrointestinal disturbances ( anorexia , nausea , diarrhea , constipation ) occur occasionally , but are usually mild and may subside with continuation of therapy .
Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals , giving Se - Tan PLUS after meals may control occasional G . I . disturbances .
Se - Tan PLUS is best absorbed when taken at bedtime .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prescriber should be aware of a number of iron / drug interactions , including antacids , tetracyclines , or fluoroquinolones .
OVERDOSE : Iron : Signs and Symptoms : Iron is toxic .
Acute overdosage of iron may cause nausea and vomiting and , in severe cases , cardiovascular collapse and death .
Other symptoms include pallor and cyanosis , melena , shock , drowsiness and coma .
The estimated overdose of orally ingested iron is 300 - mg / kg body weight .
When overdoses are ingested by children , severe reactions , including fatalities , have resulted .
Se - Tan PLUS should be stored beyond the reach of children to prevent against accidental iron poisoning .
Keep this and all other drugs out of the reach of children .
Treatment : For specific therapy , exchange transfusion and chelating agents should be used .
For general management , perform gastric lavage with sodium bicarbonate solution or milk .
Administer intravenous fluids and electrolytes and use oxygen .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Adults ( persons over 12 years of age ) , one ( 1 ) capsule daily , orally , between meals , or as prescribed by a physician .
Do not exceed recommended dosage .
Do not administer to children under the age of 12 .
HOW SUPPLIED : Se - Tan PLUS are white capsules imprinted in black " T503 " .
Child resistant bottles of 90 capsules .
Product Code : NDC 13925 - 118 - 90 .
PHARMACIST : Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
Storage : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP controlled room temperature ] .
Keep in a cool dry place .
KEEP THIS AND ALL DRUGS OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Rx Only RESERVED FOR PROFESSIONAL RECOMMENDATION .
Manufactured for : Seton Pharmaceuticals Manasquan , NJ 08736 1 - 800 - 510 - 3401 MADE IN CANADA Code 118 - 90 Rev . 03 / 18 SETON PHARMACEUTICALS PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 13925 - 118 - 90 Se - Tan - PLUS Ferrous Fumarate / Polysaccharide Iron Complex / Multivitamin Mineral Capsules 90 Capsules Rx Only SETON PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
