DESCRIPTION Tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 3 % is a sterile topical ophthalmic antibiotic formulation prepared specifically for topical therapy of external ophthalmic infections .
Each mL of tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 3 % contains : Active : tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg ) .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % ( 0 . 1 mg ) .
Inactives : boric acid , sodium sulfate decahydrate , sodium chloride , tyloxapol , sodium hydroxide and / or sulfuric acid ( to adjust pH ) and water for injection .
Tobramycin ophthalmic solution USP , 0 . 3 % has a pH range between 7 . 0 and 8 . 0 and an osmolality of 260 - 320 mOsm / kg .
Tobramycin is a water - soluble aminoglycoside antibiotic active against a wide variety of gram - negative and gram - positive ophthalmic pathogens .
The chemical structure of tobramycin is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight = 467 . 52 Molecular Formula : C18H37N5O9 Chemical name : O - 3 - Amino - 3 - deoxy - α - D - glucopyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) - O - [ 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 , 6 - trideoxy - α - D - ribo - hexopyranosyl - ( 1 → 6 ) ] - 2 - deoxy - L - streptamine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY In Vitro Data : In vitro studies have demonstrated tobramycin is active against susceptible strains of the following microorganisms : Staphylococci , including S . aureus and S . epidermidis ( coagulase - positive and coagulase - negative ) , including penicillin - resistant strains .
Streptococci , including some of the Group A - beta - hemolytic species , some nonhemolytic species , and some Streptococcus pneumoniae .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Escherichia coli , Klebsiella pneumoniae , Enterobacter aerogenes , Proteus mirabilis , Morganella morganii , most Proteus vulgaris strains , Haemophilus influenzae and H . aegyptius , Moraxella lacunata , Acinetobacter calcoaceticus and some Neisseria species .
Bacterial susceptibility studies demonstrate that in some cases , microorganisms resistant to gentamicin retain susceptibility to tobramycin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % is a topical antibiotic indicated in the treatment of external infections of the eye and its adnexa caused by susceptible bacteria .
Appropriate monitoring of bacterial response to topical antibiotic therapy should accompany the use of tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % .
Clinical studies have shown tobramycin to be safe and effective for use in children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE .
NOT FOR INJECTION INTO THE EYE .
Sensitivity to topically applied aminoglycosides may occur in some patients .
Severity of hypersensitivity reactions may vary from local effects to generalized reactions such as erythema , itching , urticaria , skin rash , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid reactions , or bullous reactions .
If a sensitivity reaction to tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % occurs , discontinue use .
PRECAUTIONS General : As with other antibiotic preparations , prolonged use may result in overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , appropriate therapy should be initiated .
Cross - sensitivity to other aminoglycoside antibiotics may occur ; if hypersensitivity develops with this product , discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy .
Patients should be advised not to wear contact lenses if they have signs and symptoms of bacterial ocular infection .
Information for Patients : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Pregnancy : Reproduction studies in 3 types of animals at doses up to 33 times the normal human systemic dose have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to tobramycin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : Because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants from tobramycin ophthalmic solution , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing the infant or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 months has not been established .
Geriatric Use : No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequent adverse reactions to tobramycin ophthalmic solution 0 . 3 % are hypersensitivity and localized ocular toxicity , including lid itching and swelling , and conjunctival erythema .
These reactions occur in less than three of 100 patients treated with tobramycin ophthalmic solution .
Postmarketing Experience : Additional adverse reactions identified from post - marketing use include anaphylactic reaction , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and erythema multiforme .
The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with systemic aminoglycosides : Neurotoxicity , ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity have occurred in patients receiving systemic aminoglycoside therapy .
Aminoglycosides may aggravate muscle weakness in patients with known or suspected neuromuscular disorders , such as myasthenia gravis or Parkinson ’ s disease , because of their potential effect on neuromuscular function .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION In mild to moderate disease , instill 1 or 2 drops into the affected eye ( s ) every 4 hours .
In severe infections , instill 2 drops into the eye ( s ) hourly until improvement , following which treatment should be reduced prior to discontinuation .
HOW SUPPLIED 5 mL sterile solution supplied in opaque white low density polyethylene bottle which is closed with natural low density polyethylene nozzle and then with Tan colored high density polyethylene cap as follows : 5 mL containing tobramycin 0 . 3 % ( 3 mg / mL ) … .
NDC 68083 - 374 - 01 Storage : Store at 2 ° C to 25 ° C ( 36 ° F to 77 ° F ) .
After opening , Tobramycin Ophthalmic Solution , USP 0 . 3 % can be used until the expiration date on the bottle .
Manufactured by : Gland Pharma Limited D . P . Pally , Dundigal Post Hyderabad - 500043 , India Issued : 07 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Bottle Label : NDC 68083 - 374 - 01 Tobramycin Ophthalmic solution , USP 0 . 3 % Sterile 5 mL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label : NDC 68083 - 374 - 01 Tobramycin Ophthalmic solution , USP 0 . 3 % 5 mL Sterile Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
