Drug Facts Active Ingredients Purpose Camphor 3 % ........................................ Topical Analgesics Menthol 12 % .....................................
Counter Irritant Methyl Salicylate ............................ Counter Irritant USES For temporary relief of minor aches and pains of muscles and joints associated with : simple backache , arthritis , sprains , strains , bruises WARNINGS : For external Use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes and mucous membranes .
If condition worsens or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , discontinue use of this product and consult a doctor .
When used for arthritis , if pain persists for more than 10 days , or redness is present , or in conditions affecting children under 12 years of age , consult a physician immediately .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Do not : use otherwise than as directed apply to wounds or damaged skin bandage tightly or apply heating pad Stop use and ask a doctor if redness is present excessive irritation of the skin develops if swelling occurs DIRECTIONS : Adults and children 12 years of age and older : Apply to affected area , massage for 1 minute , not more than 3 to 4 times daily Children under 12 years of age : Consult a physician .
Aloe Vera gel , arnica Montana ( flower extract , cetearyl alcohol , clove oil , diazolidinyl urea , DandC Blue 4 , fragrance , ginger oil , lavender oil , methylsulfonylmethane ( MSM ) , methylparaben , orange oil , peppermint oil , polysorbate - 60 , propylene glycol , propylparaben , purified water , rosemary oil , thyme oil , Vitamin C , Vitamin E , xanthan gum .
Fast Pain Relieving Gel Product of the United States of America Any questions , comments ?
stoppain @ arthritisplusgel . com Manufactured for : JI Well Health Roscoe , IL 61073 , USA by Second Nature Aromatics Dr . JI ' s Arthrits Plus Gel Pain Relieving Gel USA Board Certified Neurologist Formulated Deep penetrating therapy for joints and muscles pain Fast Acting Arthritis Simple Backache Strains Sprains Bruises Net Weight 2 oz .
Fast Acting Relief of Minor Joint and Muscles Pains Dr . JI ' s ( TM ) Arthritis Plus Gel Pain Relieving Gel Arthritis Simple Backache Strains Sprains Bruises Exp .
Date Lot No .
Batch No .
Pain Relieving Gel www . arthritisplusgel . com [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
