DRUG FACTS Active Ingredient ( s ) Ethyl Alcohol at 80 % ( v / v ) Purpose Antiseptic Uses : Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
WARNINGS : For external use only , Flammable .
Keep away from open flame and sources of heat or flame .
Do not use : In children less than 2 months of age .
On open skin wounds .
When using this product : Keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical advice .
Stop use and ask a doctor : If an irritation or rash occurs .
These may be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children : If swallowed , seek medical advice or contact a poison control center right away .
DIRECTIONS : Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces and rub between both side of hands until dry .
Children under 6 years of age should be supervised when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other information : Store between 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) .
May discolor certain fabrics or surfaces .
Inactive Ingredients : Water , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Carbomer , Glycerin , Aminomethyl Propanol , Peppermint essential oil , Menthol .
Products from the Earth with Mint plant alcohol and Aloe Vera KILLS 99 . 9 % OF GERMS * Ethyl Alcohol made from plant sugars .
Enriched with alcohol obtained from mint plant .
With moisturizing Aloe Vera .
Plant based fragrance .
Non - sterile and topical solution .
* Effective at eliminating 99 . 9 % of many common germs and bacteria .
RESPONSE : If inhaled : Remove person to fresh air and keep comfortable for breathing .
Call a doctor if you feel unwell .
If in eyes : Rinse cautiously with water for several minutes .
Remove contact lenses , if present and easy to do .
Continue rinsing .
If eye irritation persists : Get medical attention .
In case of fire : Use water spray , alcohol - resistant foam , dry chemical or carbon dioxide for extintion .
DANGER : Highly flammable liquid and vapor .
Causes serious eye irritation .
May cause drowsiness or dizziness .
Store below 110ºF ( 43ºC ) .
PREVENTION : Keep away from heat , sparks , and open flames .
No smoking .
Keep container tightly closed .
Avoid breathing vapors .
CONTACT US : www . thenaturedrops . com help @ thenaturedrops . com + 52 8113634206 thenaturedrops MANUFACTURED AND EXPORTED BY : Bioplásticos y Polímeros Biofase SAPI de CV .
Madero Oriente No . 6500 Int .
209 , Ciudad Industrial , Morelia , Michoacán 58200 , México ( MEX ) .
Do not pollute , dispose of the used product appropriately .
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
