ACTIVE INGREDIENT Niacinamide 2 . 0 % Adenosine 0 . 04 % PURPOSE Brightening Anti - wrinkle Use ( s ) ■ To moisturize the skin ■ To whitening wrinkle improvement ■ For the management of acne .
Warnings ■ For external use only ■ Avoid applying the product on open wounds or inflamed skin .
■ Avoid contact with eyes .
■ Discontinue use if signs of irritation or rashes appear .
■ You may see essence drops on the stick before or during use .
Since this product is infused with highly - enriched essence , the drops of essence are formed on its surface , which does not mean the product is defective .
Please make sure to expose stick about 5 mm .
■ The formula may look shrink , swollen , sweating , and elevated or its property can be changed .
But it does not mean the product is defective ■ Please avoid direct contact with apparel and household items .
If not , the stick could make them stained or discolored .
■ Make sure to close a cap after use .
■ Keep out of reach of infants and children .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN ■ Keep out of reach of infants and children .
Directions ■ Open the cap and turn the dial at the bottom of the container to expose stick .
Gently apply and glide it onto your skin , especially where you want to hydrate and soothe .
Other Information ■ Do not store this product in an inappropriate place such as high or low temperatures or under direct sun light Questions ■ + 82 - 2 - 2257 - 8882 ■ https : / / jaunmall . com / Inactive ingredients Centella Asiatica Extract , Water , Bis - PEG - 18 Methyl Ether Dimethyl Silane , Butylene Glycol , Sodium Stearate , Glycerin , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Asiatic Acid , Madecassic Acid , Asiaticoside , Ulmus Davidiana Root Extract , Scutellaria Baicalensis Root Extract , Poncirus Trifoliata Fruit Extract , Glycyrrhiza Glabra ( Licorice ) Root Extract , Forsythia Suspensa Fruit Extract , Citrus Unshiu Peel Extract , Angelica Dahurica Root Extract , Sophora Flavescens Root Extract , Lithospermum Erythrorhizon Root Extract , Paeonia Lactiflora Extract , Lonicera Japonica ( Honeysuckle ) Flower Extract , Chrysanthemum Indicum Extract , Angelica Gigas Root Extract , Ethoxydiglycol , Melia Azadirachta Leaf Extract , Melia Azadirachta Flower Extract , Sodium Hyaluronate , Betaine , Octyldodecanol , Coccinia Indica Fruit Extract , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Glycolipids , Pyrus Communis ( Pear ) Fruit Extract , Corallina Officinalis Extract , C12 - 13 Pareth - 9 , Prunus Persica ( Peach ) Fruit Extract , Vanilla Planifolia Fruit Extract , Rosa Damascena Flower Water , Acacia Senegal Gum , Aloe Barbadensis Flower Extract , Hedera Helix ( Ivy ) Leaf / Stem Extract , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Solanum Melongena ( Eggplant ) Fruit Extract , Ocimum Sanctum Leaf Extract , Hydroxypropyl Methylcellulose , Peat Water , Citric Acid , Curcuma Longa ( Turmeric ) Root Extract , Potassium Sorbate , Pinus Sylvestris Bud Extract , Melaleuca Alternifolia ( Tea Tree ) Leaf Oil , Helianthus Annuus ( Sunflower ) Seed Oil , Coptis Chinensis Root Extract , Lithospermum Erythrorhizon Root Oil , Paeonia Lactiflora Root Extract PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
