DESCRIPTION Leuprolide acetate is a synthetic nonapeptide analog of naturally occurring gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) .
The analog possesses greater potency than the natural hormone .
The chemical name is 5 - oxo - L - prolyl - L - histidyl - L - tryptophyl - L - seryl - L - tyrosyl - D - leucyl - L - leucyl - L - arginyl - N - ethyl - L - prolinamide acetate ( salt ) with the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Leuprolide acetate injection is a sterile , aqueous solution intended for subcutaneous injection .
It is available in a 2 . 8 mL multiple - dose vial containing leuprolide acetate ( 5 mg / mL ) , sodium chloride , USP ( 6 . 3 mg / mL ) for tonicity adjustment , benzyl alcohol , NF as a preservative ( 9 mg / mL ) , and water for injection , USP .
The pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide , NF and / or acetic acid , NF .
The pH range is 4 . 0 to 6 . 0 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leuprolide acetate , a GnRH agonist , acts as an inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion .
Animal studies indicate that following an initial stimulation , continuous administration of leuprolide acetate results in suppression of ovarian and testicular steroidogenesis .
This effect was reversible upon discontinuation of drug therapy .
Administration of leuprolide acetate has resulted in inhibition of the growth of certain hormone dependent tumors ( prostatic tumors in Noble and Dunning male rats and DMBA - induced mammary tumors in female rats ) as well as atrophy of the reproductive organs .
In humans , subcutaneous administration of single daily doses of leuprolide acetate results in an initial increase in circulating levels of luteinizing hormone ( LH ) and follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) , leading to a transient increase in levels of the gonadal steroids ( testosterone and dihydrotestosterone in males , and estrone and estradiol in pre - menopausal females ) .
However , continuous daily administration of leuprolide acetate results in decreased levels of LH and FSH .
In males , testosterone is reduced to castrate levels .
In pre - menopausal females , estrogens are reduced to post - menopausal levels .
These decreases occur within two to four weeks after initiation of treatment , and castrate levels of testosterone in prostatic cancer patients have been demonstrated for periods of up to five years .
Leuprolide acetate is not active when given orally .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption Bioavailability by subcutaneous administration is comparable to that by intravenous administration .
Distribution The mean steady - state volume of distribution of leuprolide following intravenous bolus administration to healthy male volunteers was 27 L .
In vitro binding to human plasma proteins ranged from 43 % to 49 % .
Metabolism In healthy male volunteers , a 1 mg bolus of leuprolide administered intravenously revealed that the mean systemic clearance was 7 . 6 L / h , with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 3 hours based on a two compartment model .
In rats and dogs , administration of 14 C - labeled leuprolide was shown to be metabolized to smaller inactive peptides , a pentapeptide ( Metabolite I ) , tripeptides ( Metabolites II and III ) and a dipeptide ( Metabolite IV ) .
These fragments may be further catabolized .
The major metabolite ( M - I ) plasma concentrations measured in 5 prostate cancer patients reached maximum concentration 2 to 6 hours after dosing and were approximately 6 % of the peak parent drug concentration .
One week after dosing , mean plasma M - I concentrations were approximately 20 % of mean leuprolide concentrations .
Excretion Following administration of leuprolide acetate for depot suspension 3 . 75 mg to 3 patients , less than 5 % of the dose was recovered as parent and M - I metabolite in the urine .
Special Populations The pharmacokinetics of the drug in hepatically and renally impaired patients has not been determined .
Drug Interactions No pharmacokinetic - based drug - drug interaction studies have been conducted with leuprolide acetate .
However , because leuprolide acetate is a peptide that is primarily degraded by peptidase and not by cytochrome P - 450 enzymes as noted in specific studies , and the drug is only about 46 % bound to plasma proteins , drug interactions would not be expected to occur .
CLINICAL STUDIES In a controlled study comparing leuprolide acetate 1 mg / day given subcutaneously to DES ( diethylstilbestrol ) , 3 mg / day , the survival rate for the two groups was comparable after two years of treatment .
The objective response to treatment was also similar for the two groups .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Leuprolide acetate injection is indicated in the palliative treatment of advanced prostatic cancer .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Leuprolide acetate injection is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to GnRH , GnRH agonist analogs or any of the excipients in leuprolide acetate injection : Reports of anaphylactic reactions to GnRH agonist analogs have been reported in the medical literature .
WARNINGS Initially , leuprolide acetate , like other LH - RH agonists , causes increases in serum levels of testosterone .
Transient worsening of symptoms , or the occurrence of additional signs and symptoms of prostate cancer , may occasionally develop during the first few weeks of leuprolide acetate treatment .
A small number of patients may experience a temporary increase in bone pain , which can be managed symptomatically .
As with other LH - RH agonists , isolated cases of ureteral obstruction and spinal cord compression have been observed , which may contribute to paralysis with or without fatal complications .
Safe use of leuprolide acetate in pregnancy has not been established clinically .
Leuprolide acetate may cause fetal harm .
Periodic monitoring of serum testosterone and prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) levels is recommended , especially if the anticipated clinical or biochemical response to treatment has not been achieved .
It should be noted that results of testosterone determinations are dependent on assay methodology .
It is advisable to be aware of the type and precision of the assay methodology to make appropriate clinical and therapeutic decisions .
PRECAUTIONS Patients with metastatic vertebral lesions and / or with urinary tract obstruction should be closely observed during the first few weeks of therapy ( see WARNINGS and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections ) .
Patients with known allergies to benzyl alcohol , an ingredient of the drug ’ s vehicle , may present symptoms of hypersensitivity , usually local , in the form of erythema and induration at the injection site .
Hyperglycemia and an increased risk of developing diabetes have been reported in men receiving GnRH agonists .
Hyperglycemia may represent development of diabetes mellitus or worsening of glycemic control in patients with diabetes .
Monitor blood glucose and / or glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) periodically in patients receiving a GnRH agonist and manage with current practice for treatment of hyperglycemia or diabetes .
Increased risk of developing myocardial infarction , sudden cardiac death and stroke has been reported in association with use of GnRH agonists in men .
The risk appears low based on the reported odds ratios , and should be evaluated carefully along with cardiovascular risk factors when determining a treatment for patients with prostate cancer .
Patients receiving a GnRH agonist should be monitored for symptoms and signs suggestive of development of cardiovascular disease and be managed according to current clinical practice .
Based on findings in animal studies , leuprolide acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose , based on body surface area , using an estimated daily dose .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Effect on QT / QTc Interval Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT / QTc interval .
Providers should consider whether the benefits of androgen deprivation therapy outweigh the potential risks in patients with congenital long QT syndrome , congestive heart failure , frequent electrolyte abnormalities , and in patients taking drugs known to prolong the QT interval .
Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected .
Consider periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and electrolytes .
Information for Patients See INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS which appears after the REFERENCE section .
Laboratory Tests Response to leuprolide acetate should be monitored by measuring serum levels of testosterone and prostate - specific antigen ( PSA ) .
In the majority of patients , testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , declining thereafter to baseline levels or below by the end of the second week of treatment .
Castrate levels were reached within two to four weeks and once attained were maintained for as long as drug administration continued .
Drug Interactions See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics section .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions Administration of leuprolide acetate in therapeutic doses results in suppression of the pituitary - gonadal system .
Normal function is usually restored within 4 to 12 weeks after treatment is discontinued .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Two - year carcinogenicity studies were conducted with leuprolide acetate in rats and mice .
In rats , a dose - related increase of benign pituitary hyperplasia and benign pituitary adenomas was noted at 24 months when the drug was administered subcutaneously at high daily doses ( 0 . 6 to 4 mg / kg ) .
There was a significant but not dose - related increase of pancreatic islet - cell adenomas in females and of testicular interstitial cell adenomas in males ( highest incidence in the low dose group ) .
In mice , no pituitary abnormalities were observed at a dose as high as 60 mg / kg for two years .
Patients have been treated with leuprolide acetate for up to three years with doses as high as 10 mg / day and for two years with doses as high as 20 mg / day without demonstrable pituitary abnormalities .
Mutagenicity studies have been performed with leuprolide acetate using bacterial and mammalian systems .
These studies provided no evidence of a mutagenic potential .
Leuprolide may reduce male and female fertility .
Administration of leuprolide acetate to male and female rats at dose of 0 . 024 , 0 . 24 , and 2 . 4 mg / kg as monthly depot formulation for up to 3 months ( approximately as low as 1 / 30 of the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) caused atrophy of the reproductive organs , and suppression of reproductive function .
These changes were reversible upon cessation of treatment .
Pregnancy Risk Summary Based on findings in animal studies and mechanism of action , leuprolide acetate may cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
There are no available data in pregnant women to inform the drug - associated risk .
In animal developmental and reproductive toxicology studies , administration of a monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate on day 6 of pregnancy ( sustained exposure was expected throughout the period of organogenesis ) caused adverse embryo - fetal toxicity in animals at doses less than the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose ( see data ) .
Advise pregnant patients and females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to the fetus .
Data Animal Data Major fetal malformations were observed in developmental and reproductive toxicology studies in rabbits after a single administration of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate administered on day 6 of pregnancy at test dosages of 0 . 00024 , 0 . 0024 , and 0 . 024 mg / kg ( approximately 1 / 600 to 1 / 6 the human dose based on body surface area using an estimated daily dose in animals and humans ) .
Since a depot formulation was utilized in the study , a sustained exposure to leuprolide was expected throughout the period of organogenesis and to the end of gestation .
Similar studies in rats did not demonstrate an increase in fetal malformations , however , there was increased fetal mortality and decreased fetal weights with the two higher doses of the monthly formulation of leuprolide acetate in rabbits and with the highest dose in rats .
Lactation The safety and efficacy of leuprolide acetate have not been established in females .
There is no information regarding the presence of leuprolide acetate in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child from leuprolide acetate , a decision should be made to discontinue breastfeeding or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Males Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action , Leuprolide acetate may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential .
Geriatric Use In the clinical trials for leuprolide acetate injection , the majority ( 69 % ) of subjects studied were at least 65 years of age .
Therefore , the labeling reflects the pharmacokinetics , efficacy , and safety of leuprolide acetate in this population .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Trials In the majority of patients testosterone levels increased above baseline during the first week , declining thereafter to baseline levels or below by the end of the second week of treatment .
This transient increase was occasionally associated with a temporary worsening of signs and symptoms , usually manifested by an increase in bone pain ( see WARNINGS section ) .
In a few cases a temporary worsening of existing hematuria and urinary tract obstruction occurred during the first week .
Temporary weakness and paresthesia of the lower limbs have been reported in a few cases .
Potential exacerbations of signs and symptoms during the first few weeks of treatment is a concern in patients with vertebral metastases and / or urinary obstruction which , if aggravated , may lead to neurological problems or increase the obstruction .
In a comparative trial of leuprolide acetate injection versus DES , in 5 % or more of the patients receiving either drug , the following adverse reactions were reported to have a possible or probable relationship to drug as ascribed by the treating physician .
Often , causality is difficult to assess in patients with metastatic prostate cancer .
Reactions considered not drug related are excluded .
Leuprolide Acetate ( N = 98 ) DES ( N = 101 ) Number of Reports Cardiovascular System Congestive heart failure 1 5 ECG changes / ischemia 19 22 High blood pressure 8 5 Murmur 3 8 Peripheral edema 12 30 Phlebitis / thrombosis 2 10 Gastrointestinal System Anorexia 6 5 Constipation 7 9 Nausea / vomiting 5 17 Endocrine System Decreased testicular size [ 1 ] 7 11 Gynecomastia / breast tenderness or pain null 7 63 Hot flashes null 55 12 Impotence null 4 12 Hemic and Lymphatic System Anemia 5 5 Musculoskeletal System Bone pain 5 2 Myalgia 3 9 Central / Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness / lightheadedness 5 7 General pain 13 13 Headache 7 4 Insomnia / sleep disorders 7 5 Respiratory System Dyspnea 2 8 Sinus congestion 5 6 Integumentary System Dermatitis 5 8 Urogenital System Frequency / urgency 6 8 Hematuria 6 4 Urinary tract infection 3 7 Miscellaneous Asthenia 10 10 [ 1 ] Physiologic effect of decreased testosterone .
In this same study , the following adverse reactions were reported in less than 5 % of the patients on leuprolide acetate .
Cardiovascular System – Angina , Cardiac arrhythmias , Myocardial infarction , Pulmonary emboli Gastrointestinal System – Diarrhea , Dysphagia , Gastrointestinal bleeding , Gastrointestinal disturbance , Peptic ulcer , Rectal polyps Endocrine System – Libido decrease , Thyroid enlargement Musculoskeletal System – Joint pain Central / Peripheral Nervous System – Anxiety , Blurred vision , Lethargy , Memory disorder , Mood swings , Nervousness , Numbness , Paresthesia , Peripheral neuropathy , Syncope / blackouts , Taste disorders Respiratory System – Cough , Pleural rub , Pneumonia , Pulmonary fibrosis Integumentary System – Carcinoma of skin / ear , Dry skin , Ecchymosis , Hair loss , Itching , Local skin reactions , Pigmentation , Skin lesions Urogenital System – Bladder spasms , Dysuria , Incontinence , Testicular pain , Urinary obstruction Miscellaneous – Depression , Diabetes , Fatigue , Fever / chills , Hypoglycemia , Increased BUN , Increased calcium , Increased creatinine , Infection / inflammation , Ophthalmologic disorders , Swelling ( temporal bone ) .
In an additional clinical trial and from long - term observation of both studies , the following additional adverse events ( excluding those considered not drug related ) were reported for patients receiving leuprolide acetate .
Cardiovascular System – Bradycardia , Carotid bruit , Extrasystole , Palpitations , Perivascular cuffing ( eyes ) , Ruptured aortic aneurysm , Stroke , Tachycardia , Transient ischemic attack Gastrointestinal System – Flatus , Dryness of mouth and throat , Hepatitis , Hepatomegaly , Occult blood ( rectal exam ) , Rectal fistula / erythema Endocrine System – Libido increase , Thyroid nodule Musculoskeletal System – Ankylosing spondylosis , Arthritis , Blurred disc margins , Bone fracture , Muscle stiffness , Muscle tenderness , Pelvic fibrosis , Spasms / cramps Central / Peripheral Nervous System – Auditory hallucinations / tinnitus , Decreased hearing , Decreased reflexes , Euphoria , Hyperreflexia , Loss of smell , Motor deficiency Respiratory System – Chest tightness , Decreased breathing sounds , Hemoptysis , Pleuritic chest pain , Pulmonary infiltrate , Rales / rhonchi , Rhinitis , Strep throat , Wheezing / bronchitis Integumentary System – Boil ( pubic ) , Bruises , Hives , Keratosis , Mole , Shingles , Spiders Urogenital System – Blisters on penis , Inguinal hernia , Penile swelling , Post void residual , Prostatic pain , Pyuria Miscellaneous – Abdominal distention , Facial swelling / edema , Feet burning , Flu , Eyelid growth , Hypoproteinemia , Accidental injury , Knee effusion , Mass , Pallid , Sallow , Weakness .
Postmarketing During postmarketing surveillance which includes other dosage forms and other patient populations , the following adverse events were reported .
Symptoms consistent with an anaphylactoid or asthmatic process have been rarely ( incidence rate of about 0 . 002 % ) reported .
Rash , urticaria , and photosensitivity reactions have also been reported .
Localized reactions including induration and abscess have been reported at the site of injection .
Symptoms consistent with fibromyalgia ( e . g . , joint and muscle pain , headaches , sleep disorders , gastrointestinal distress , and shortness of breath ) have been reported individually and collectively .
Cardiovascular System – Hypotension , Myocardial infarction , Pulmonary embolism Endocrine System – Diabetes Gastrointestinal System – Hepatic dysfunction Hepato - biliary disorder – Serious drug - induced liver injury Hemic and Lymphatic System – Decreased WBC Integumentary System – Hair growth Central / Peripheral Nervous System – Convulsion , Peripheral neuropathy , Spinal fracture / paralysis , Hearing disorder Miscellaneous – Hard nodule in throat , Weight gain , Increased uric acid Musculoskeletal System – Tenosynovitis - like symptoms Respiratory System – Respiratory disorders , Interstitial lung disease Urogenital System - Prostate pain Changes in Bone Density Decreased bone density has been reported in the medical literature in men who have had orchiectomy or who have been treated with an LH - RH agonist analog .
In a clinical trial , 25 men with prostate cancer , 12 of whom had been treated previously with leuprolide acetate for at least six months , underwent bone density studies as a result of pain .
The leuprolide - treated group had lower bone density scores than the nontreated control group .
It can be anticipated that long periods of medical castration in men will have effects on bone density .
Pituitary Apoplexy During post - marketing surveillance , rare cases of pituitary apoplexy ( a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland ) have been reported after the administration of gonadotropin - releasing hormone agonists .
In a majority of these cases , a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed , with a majority of pituitary apoplexy cases occurring within 2 weeks of the first dose , and some within the first hour .
In these cases , pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache , vomiting , visual changes , ophthalmoplegia , altered mental status , and sometimes cardiovascular collapse .
Immediate medical attention has been required .
See other leuprolide acetate for depot suspension and leuprolide acetate injection package inserts for other events reported in the same and different patient populations .
OVERDOSAGE In rats subcutaneous administration of 250 to 500 times the recommended human dose , expressed on a per body weight basis , resulted in dyspnea , decreased activity , and local irritation at the injection site .
There is no evidence at present that there is a clinical counterpart of this phenomenon .
In early clinical trials with leuprolide acetate doses as high as 20 mg / day for up to two years caused no adverse effects differing from those observed with the 1 mg / day dose .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is 1 mg ( 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark ) administered as a single daily subcutaneous injection .
As with other drugs administered chronically by subcutaneous injection , the injection site should be varied periodically .
Each 0 . 2 mL contains 1 mg of leuprolide acetate , sodium chloride for tonicity adjustment , 1 . 8 mg of benzyl alcohol as preservative and water for injection .
The pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide and / or acetic acid .
Follow the pictorial directions on the Administering the Injection Insert .
NOTE : As with all parenteral products , inspect the solution for discoloration and particulate matter before each use .
HOW SUPPLIED Leuprolide acetate injection is a sterile solution supplied in a 2 . 8 mL multiple - dose vial .
The vial is packaged as a 14 Day Patient Administration Kit with 14 disposable syringes and 28 alcohol swabs , NDC 0781 - 4003 - 32 .
Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light ; store vial in carton until use .
REFERENCES • 1 .
“ OSHA Hazardous Drugs . ”
OSHA .
http : / / www . osha . gov / SLTC / hazardousdrugs / index . html • 2 .
American Society of Health - System Pharmacists .
ASHP guidelines on handling hazardous drugs .
Am J Health - Syst Pharm .
2006 ; 63 ; 1172 - 1193 .
• 3 .
Polovich , M . , White , J . M . , & Kelleher , L . O . ( eds . )
2005 .
Chemotherapy and biotherapy guidelines and recommendations for practice ( 2 nd Ed . )
Pittsburgh , PA : Oncology Nursing Society .
INFORMATION FOR PATIENTS Be sure to consult your physician with any questions you may have or for information about leuprolide acetate injection and its use .
What is leuprolide acetate injection ?
Leuprolide acetate injection is chemically similar to gonadotropin releasing hormone ( GnRH or LH - RH ) a hormone which occurs naturally in your body .
Normally , your body releases small amounts of LH - RH and this leads to events which stimulate the production of sex hormones .
However , when you inject leuprolide acetate injection , the normal events that lead to sex hormone production are interrupted and testosterone is no longer produced by the testes .
Leuprolide acetate must be injected because , like insulin which is injected by diabetics , leuprolide acetate is inactive when taken by mouth .
If you were to discontinue the drug for any reason , your body would begin making testosterone again .
Directions for Using Leuprolide Acetate Injection • 1 .
Wash hands thoroughly with soap and water .
• 2 .
If using a new bottle for the first time , flip off the plastic cover to expose the grey rubber stopper .
Wipe metal ring and rubber stopper with an alcohol wipe each time you use leuprolide acetate .
Check the liquid in the container .
If it is not clear or has particles in it , DO NOT USE IT .
Exchange it at your pharmacy for another container .
• 3 .
Remove outer wrapping from one syringe .
Pull plunger back until the tip of the plunger is at the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• 4 .
Take cover off needle .
Push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper on the leuprolide acetate bottle .
• 5 .
Push the plunger all the way in to inject air into the bottle .
• 6 .
Keep the needle in the bottle and turn the bottle upside down .
Check to make sure the tip of the needle is in the liquid .
Slowly pull back on the plunger , until the syringe fills to the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• 7 .
Toward the end of a two - week period , the amount of leuprolide acetate left in the bottle will be small .
Take special care to hold the bottle straight and to keep the needle tip in liquid while pulling back on the plunger .
• 8 .
Keeping the needle in the bottle and the bottle upside down , check for air bubbles in the syringe .
If you see any , push the plunger slowly in to push the air bubble back into the bottle .
Keep the tip of the needle in the liquid and pull the plunger back again to fill to the 0 . 2 mL or 20 unit mark .
• 9 .
Do this again if necessary to eliminate air bubbles .
• 10 .
To protect your skin , inject each daily dose at a different body spot .
• 11 .
Choose an injection spot .
Cleanse the injection spot with another alcohol wipe .
• 12 .
Hold the syringe in one hand .
Hold the skin taut , or pull up a little flesh with the other hand , as you were instructed .
• 13 .
Holding the syringe as you would a pencil , thrust the needle all the way into the skin at a 90 ° angle .
Push the plunger to administer the injection .
• 14 .
Hold an alcohol wipe down on your skin where the needle is inserted and withdraw the needle at the same angle it was inserted .
• 15 .
Use the disposable syringe only once and dispose of it properly as you were instructed .
Needles thrown into a garbage bag could accidentally stick someone .
NEVER LEAVE SYRINGES , NEEDLES OR DRUGS WHERE CHILDREN CAN REACH THEM .
Some Special Advice • • You may experience hot flashes when using leuprolide acetate injection .
During the first few weeks of treatment you may experience increased bone pain , increased difficulty in urinating , and less commonly but most importantly , you may experience the onset or aggravation of nerve symptoms .
In any of these events , discuss the symptoms with your doctor .
Like other treatment options , leuprolide acetate may cause impotence .
Notify your doctor if you develop new or worsened symptoms after beginning leuprolide acetate treatment .
• • You may experience some irritation at the injection site , such as burning , itching or swelling .
These reactions are usually mild and go away .
If they do not , tell your doctor .
• • If you have experienced an allergic reaction to other drugs like leuprolide acetate , you should not use this drug .
• • Do not stop taking your injections because you feel better .
You need an injection every day to make sure leuprolide acetate keeps working for you .
• • If you need to use an alternate to the syringe supplied with leuprolide acetate , low - dose insulin syringes should be utilized .
• • When the drug level gets low , take special care to hold the bottle straight up and down and to keep the needle tip in liquid while pulling back on the plunger .
• • Do not try to get every last drop out of the bottle .
This will increase the possibility of drawing air into the syringe and getting an incomplete dose .
Some extra drug has been provided so that you can withdraw the recommended number of doses .
• • Tell your pharmacist when you will need leuprolide acetate so it will be at the pharmacy when you need it .
• • Store below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
Do not store near a radiator or other very warm place .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light ; store vial in carton until use .
• • Do not leave your drug or hypodermic syringes where anyone can pick them up .
• • Keep this and all other medications out of reach of children .
Instructions for Use LEUPROLIDE ( loo - PROE - lide ) ACETATE INJECTION Read the Instructions for Use before you start using leuprolide acetate injection and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
Your doctor should show you how to draw up leuprolide acetate injection and give the injection the right way before you inject the first time .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure A Do not share your syringes with other people , even if the needle has been changed .
You may give other people a serious infection or get a serious infection from them .
Supplies you will need for the Leuprolide Injection : • 1 vial of Leuprolide Injection • a sterile 1 ml syringe ( See Figure A ) • 1 cotton gauze • 2 alcohol swabs • 1 puncture resistant sharps container ( See “ Disposal of used syringes , needles , and vials ” ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure B Step 1 .
Wash hands thoroughly ( See Figure B ) and dry them with a clean towel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure C Step 2 .
• Check the liquid in the container .
It should look clear .
Do not use if it is not clear or if it has particles in it .
• If using a new bottle , flip off the plastic cover to expose the grey rubber stopper .
• Use an alcohol swab to cleanse the metal ring and rubber stopper on the medication bottle every day , just before you use it ( See Figure C ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure D Step 3 .
Remove outer wrapping from one syringe ( See Figure D ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure E Step 4 .
Pull the syringe plunger back until its tip is at the proper mark ( See Figure E ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure F Step 5 .
Uncover needle ( See Figure F ) .
Do not touch the needle .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure G Step 6 .
• Place the bottle on a clean , flat surface .
• Push the needle through the center of the rubber stopper on the bottle .
• Push the plunger all the way in to inject air into the bottle ( See Figure G ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure H Step 7 .
• Keep the needle in the bottle .
• Lift the bottle and turn it straight upside down .
• Check to see that the needle tip is in the liquid ( See Figure H ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure I Step 8 .
• With the needle tip in the liquid , slowly pull back the plunger until syringe fills to the proper mark ( See Figure I ) .
• If any bubbles appear in the syringe , remove them by pushing the plunger up slowly .
• With the needle tip still in the liquid , pull the plunger until it is once more at the proper mark .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure J Step 9 .
• Choose a different injection site each day .
• Clean the injection site with a new alcohol swab .
• Hold the skin fold between your thumb and your index finger or as you were instructed by your doctor .
• Insert the needle straight into the skin quickly , as shown by your doctor in a 90 ° angle ( See Figure J ) .
• Push the plunger to inject the medicine .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure K Step 10 .
• Remove the needle at the same angle it was inserted ( 90 ° ) ( See Figure K ) .
• Wipe the skin with a cotton gauze .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Figure I Step 11 .
• • Put the used needles , syringes , and vials in a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container right away after use ( See Figure L ) .
Do not throw away ( dispose of ) loose needles , syringes , or vials in your household trash .
• • If you do not have a FDA - cleared sharps disposal container , you may use a household container that is : • omade of a heavy - duty plastic , • ocan be closed with a tight - fitting , puncture - resistant lid , without sharps being able to come out , • oupright and stable during use , • oleak - resistant , and • oproperly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside the container .
• • When your sharps disposal container is almost full , you will need to follow your community guidelines for the right way to dispose of your sharps disposal container .
• • There may be state or local laws about how you should throw away used needles , syringes , and vials .
For more information about safe sharps disposal , and for specific information about sharps disposal in the state that you live in , go to the FDA ’ s website at : http : / / www . fda . gov / safesharpsdisposal .
• • Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household trash unless your community guidelines permit this .
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container .
Manufactured by Oakwood Laboratories , L . L . C . , Oakwood Village , OH 44146 for Sandoz Inc . , Princeton , NJ 08540 Rev . June 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 mg . 2 mL Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0781 - 3006 - 42 Leuprolide Acetate Injection 14 mg / 2 . 8 mL STERILE For Subcutaneous Injection ( 1 mg / 0 . 2 mL ) Rx only Multi - Dose vial SANDOZ [ MULTIMEDIA ]
