Rx only For Dermatologic Use Only Not for Ophthalmic Use DESCRIPTION : Alclometasone dipropionate ointment contains alclometasone dipropionate ( 7α - chloro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16α - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate ) , a synthetic corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use .
The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agents .
Chemically , alclometasone dipropionate is C28H37ClO7 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Alclometasone dipropionate has the molecular weight of 521 .
It is a white powder , insoluble in water , slightly soluble in propylene glycol , and moderately soluble in hexylene glycol .
Each gram of alclometasone dipropionate ointment contains 0 . 5 mg of alclometasone dipropionate in an ointment base of hexylene glycol , white wax , propylene glycol stearate , and white petrolatum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Like other topical corticosteroids , alclometasone dipropionate has anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive properties .
The mechanism of the anti - inflammatory activity of the topical steroids , in general , is unclear .
However , corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins , collectively called lipocortins .
It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor , arachidonic acid .
Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors , including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier .
Occlusive dressings with hydrocortisone for up to 24 hours have not been demonstrated to increase penetration ; however , occlusion of hydrocortisone for 96 hours markedly enhances penetration .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
A study utilizing a radiolabeled alclometasone dipropionate ointment formulation was performed to measure systemic absorption and excretion .
Results indicated that approximately 3 % of the steroid was absorbed during 8 hours of contact with intact skin of normal volunteers .
Studies performed with alclometasone dipropionate ointment indicate that this product is in the low to medium range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Alclometasone dipropionate ointment is a low to medium potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment may be used in pediatric patients 1 year of age or older , although the safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 3 weeks have not been established ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
Since the safety and efficacy of alclometasone dipropionate ointment have not been established in pediatric patients below 1 year of age , the use in this age - group is not recommended .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Alclometasone dipropionate ointment is contraindicated in those patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of the components in these preparations .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids can produce reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression with the potential for glucocorticosteroid insufficiency after withdrawal of treatment .
Manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria can also be produced in some patients by systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids while on treatment .
Patients applying a topical steroid to a large surface area or to areas under occlusion should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression .
This may be done by using the ACTH stimulation , A . M . plasma cortisol , and urinary free cortisol tests . The effects of alclometasone dipropionate ointment on the HPA axis have been evaluated .
In one study , alclometasone dipropionate ointment was applied to 30 % of the body twice daily for 7 days , and occlusive dressings were used in selected patients either 12 hours or 24 hours daily .
In another study , alclometasone dipropionate ointment was applied to 80 % of the body surface of normal subjects twice daily for 21 days with daily 12 - hour periods of whole body occlusion .
Average plasma and urinary free cortisol levels and urinary levels of 17 - hydroxysteroids were decreased ( about 10 % ) , suggesting suppression of the HPA axis under these conditions .
Plasma cortisol levels have also been demonstrated to decrease in pediatric patients treated twice daily for 3 weeks without occlusion .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent corticosteroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt upon discontinuation of topical corticosteroids .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of glucocorticosteroid insufficiency may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
For information on systemic supplementation , see prescribing information for those products .
Pediatric patients may be more susceptible to systemic toxicity from equivalent doses due to their larger skin surface area to body mass ratios ( see PRECAUTIONS : Pediatric Use ) .
If irritation develops , alclometasone dipropionate ointment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Allergic contact dermatitis with corticosteroids is usually diagnosed by observing a failure to heal rather than noting a clinical exacerbation , as with most topical products not containing corticosteroids .
Such an observation should be corroborated with appropriate diagnostic patch testing .
If concomitant skin infections are present or develop , an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be used .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , use of alclometasone dipropionate ointment should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
In a transgenic mouse study , chronic use of alclometasone dipropionate cream led to an increased number of animals with benign neoplasms of the skin at the treatment site ( see PRECAUTIONS : Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility ) .
The clinical relevance of the findings in animal studies to humans is not clear .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions : • 1 .
This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• 2 .
This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• 3 .
The treated skin area should not be bandaged , otherwise covered or wrapped so as to be occlusive , unless directed by the physician .
• 4 .
Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• 5 .
Parents of pediatric patients should be advised not to use alclometasone dipropionate ointment in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment should not be applied in the diaper area as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• 6 .
This medication should not be used on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• 7 .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test , A . M . plasma cortisol test , Urinary free cortisol test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Systemic long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of alclometasone dipropionate .
The effects of alclometasone dipropionate on mutagenesis or fertility have not been evaluated .
• In a 26 - week dermal carcinogenicity study conducted in transgenic ( Tg . AC ) mice , topical application once daily of both the vehicle cream and the 0 . 05 % alclometasone dipropionate cream significantly increased the incidence of benign neoplasms of the skin in both sexes at the treatment site when compared to untreated controls .
This suggests that the positive effect may be associated with the vehicle application .
The clinical relevance of the findings in animals to humans is not clear .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of topical corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when alclometasone dipropionate ointment is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Alclometasone dipropionate ointment may be used with caution in pediatric patients 1 year of age or older , although the safety and efficacy of drug use for longer than 3 weeks have not been established .
Use of alclometasone dipropionate ointment is supported by results from adequate and well - controlled studies in pediatric patients with corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses .
Since the safety and efficacy of alclometasone dipropionate ointment has not been established in pediatric patients below 1 year of age , its use in this age - group is not recommended .
Because of a higher ratio of skin surface area to body mass , pediatric patients are at a greater risk than adults of HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome when they are treated with topical corticosteroids .
They are therefore also at greater risk of adrenal insufficiency during and / or after withdrawal of treatment .
Adverse effects , including striae , have been reported with inappropriate use of topical corticosteroids in infants and children .
Pediatric patients applying Alclometasone dipropionate ointment to > 20 % of the body surface area are at higher risk for HPA axis suppression .
HPA axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in pediatric patients receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in pediatric patients include low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment should not be used in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
• Geriatric Use : A limited number of patients at or above 65 years of age have been treated with alclometasone dipropionate ointment in US clinical trials .
The number of patients is too small to permit separate analysis of efficacy and safety .
No adverse events were reported with alclometasone dipropionate ointment in geriatric patients .
Based on available data , no adjustment of dosage of alclometasone dipropionate ointment in geriatric patients is warranted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : The following local adverse reactions have been reported with alclometasone dipropionate ointment in approximately 1 % of patients : itching , burning , and erythema .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids , but may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings .
These reactions are listed in approximate decreasing order of occurrence : folliculitis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae , and miliaria .
OVERDOSAGE : Topically applied alclometasone dipropionate ointment can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( see PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Apply a thin film of alclometasone dipropionate ointment to the affected skin areas two or three times daily ; massage gently until the medication disappears .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment may be used in pediatric patients 1 year of age or older .
Safety and effectiveness of alclometasone dipropionate ointment in pediatric patients for more than 3 weeks of use have not been established .
Use in pediatric patients under 1 year of age is not recommended .
As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment should not be used with occlusive dressings unless directed by a physician .
Alclometasone dipropionate ointment should not be applied in the diaper area if the child still requires diapers or plastic pants as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
Geriatric Use : In studies where geriatric patients ( 65 years of age or older , see PRECAUTIONS ) have been treated with alclometasone dipropionate ointment , safety did not differ from that in younger patients ; therefore , no dosage adjustment is recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED : Alclometasone dipropionate ointment USP , 0 . 05 % is supplied in • 15 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0264 - 15 • 45 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0264 - 45 • 60 gram tube NDC 0168 - 0264 - 60 Store between 2 ° and 30 ° C ( 36 ° and 86 ° F ) .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 I2264D R09 / 12 # 77 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G Container • NDC 0168 - 0264 - 15 Fougera ® ALCLOMETASONE DIPROPIONATE OINTMENT USP , 0 . 05 % Rx only FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 15 G Carton • NDC 0168 - 0264 - 15 Fougera ® Rx only ALCLOMETASONE DIPROPIONATE OINTMENT USP , 0 . 05 % FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE WARNING : Keep out of reach of children .
NET WT 15 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
