ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Glucose 50 . 97 % , Sodium Chloride 35 . 50 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive Ingredients : Butylene glycol , Water , Allantoin , Opuntia ficus - indica extract , Centella asiatica extract , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , Gingko biloba leaf extract , Mentha piperita ( peppermint ) leaf extract , Sophora angustifolia root extract , Angelica gigas root extract , 1 , 2 - Hexanediol , Citric acid , Magnesium stearate , Soluble collagen , Sodium citrate PURPOSE Purpose : Odor care , Prevent vaginitis WARNINGS Warnings : For vaginal use only Do not use if you have ( are ) - an allergic reaction ( rashes , and pimples , redness , swelling , skin irritation , discomfort , burning , vaginal peeling or bleeding , pain in the abdomen or pelvic area , fluttering heartbeat and chest pain , lumbar pain , abnormal vaginal secretion , pollakisuria , abnormal dryness , excessive menstrual bleeding , odor and green colored vaginal secretion , hypotension , faint , and papulopustule , pelvic pain ) - pregnant - hyper sensitive skin and skin ailment - scars on vagina - itching , rash , swelling , redness , discomfort , burning , irritation vaginal peeling or bleeding When using this product - do not use while having the monthly menstrual period - prior to absorption there is a risk the tablet may fall out of the vagina - often wash towels or underwear and do not wear reuse underwear again prior to washing due to risk of infections - try to avoid sexual relations when you have vaginal yeast infection , it can be aggravated - try not to use tampons and feminine cleansers - avoid contact with eye area - do not eat or swallow - do not use rubber products such as latex , condoms , and diaphragms together - do not use other vaginal tablets while using Jil Gyung Yi If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use .
Store at cool temperature and dry place with a closed container .
Avoid direct sunlight Overdose warning - If you accidentally take the tablet orally , stop using this medication and see doctor immediately .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have - fever ( over 38 ° C ) , pain in abdomen , odor , lumbar pain , abnormal secretion , nausea and abnormal shoulder pain .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN INDICATIONS & USAGE Uses : Moisturizes vaginal dryness and helps to improve elasticity Relieves external itching and alleviates odors before and after the menstruation DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Directions : For adults – 2 tablets at the same time - For a first - timer , keep use 2 days consecutively and after that , use once a week .
- Do not use up to 6 hours prior to any sexual relation .
- Do not use up to 6 months after giving birth .
- Symptoms may vary depending on the age of the patient .
Directions - Use only adults and children 12 years age and over 1 ) Wash hands before using this product 2 ) Open the package and vaginal tablets are placed into the vagina in much the same way as a tampon stand , squat , or lie on your back in a comfortable position then insert the tablets into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
3 ) It is recommended to use the treatment during night time prior to bed .
4 ) Use of a sanitary pad after application , because there may be vaginal secretion 30 min after application .
If there are lots of secretion , change a new sanitary pad .
5 ) Wash the area around the vagina ( the vulva ) gently next day , bacteria in your vaginal secretion can cause itching .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - JILGYUNGYI 6 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - JILGYUNGYI 10 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - JILGYUNGYI 20 Tablets [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
