Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 ) 11 / 2021 Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) 11 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE KANUMA ® is indicated for the treatment of patients with a diagnosis of Lysosomal Acid Lipase ( LAL ) deficiency .
KANUMA ® is a hydrolytic lysosomal cholesteryl ester and triacylglycerol - specific enzyme indicated for the treatment of patients with a diagnosis of Lysosomal Acid Lipase ( LAL ) deficiency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Infants with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life : • The recommended starting dosage is 1 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion once weekly .
( 2 . 1 ) • For patients with a suboptimal clinical response , increase the dosage to 3 mg / kg once weekly .
( 2 . 1 ) • For patients with continued suboptimal clinical response , further increase the dosage to 5 mg / kg once weekly .
( 2 . 1 ) Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency : • The recommended dosage is 1 mg / kg as an intravenous infusion once every other week .
( 2 . 1 ) • For patients with a suboptimal clinical response , increase the dosage to 3 mg / kg once every other week .
( 2 . 1 ) See Full Prescribing Information for complete Dosage and Administration Information .
Administration Instructions • Infuse over at least 2 hours .
( 2 . 3 ) • Consider further prolonging the infusion time for patients receiving dosages greater than 1 mg / kg or for those who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction .
( 2 . 3 ) • Consider a 1 - hour infusion for the 1 mg / kg dose in patients who tolerate the infusion .
( 2 . 3 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosage Infants with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life : • The recommended starting dosage is 1 mg / kg administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly .
• For patients with a suboptimal clinical response , increase the dosage to 3 mg / kg once weekly .
• For patients with continued suboptimal clinical response on the 3 mg / kg once weekly dosage , further increase the dosage to 5 mg / kg once weekly .
• A suboptimal clinical response is defined as any of the following : poor growth , deteriorating biochemical markers , or persistent or worsening organomegaly .
Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency : • The recommended dosage is 1 mg / kg administered as an intravenous infusion once every other week .
• For patients with a suboptimal clinical response , increase the dosage to 3 mg / kg once every other week .
• A suboptimal clinical response is defined as any of the following : poor growth , deteriorating biochemical markers [ e . g . , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) ] , and / or parameters of lipid metabolism [ e . g . , low - density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL - c ) , triglycerides ( TG ) ] .
2 . 2 Preparation Instructions KANUMA is for intravenous infusion only .
Prepare KANUMA using the following steps .
• Determine the number of vials needed based on the patient ' s weight and the recommended dose of 1 mg / kg , 3 mg / kg , or 5 mg / kg using the following calculations ( a - b ) : • Total dose ( mg ) = Patient ' s weight ( kg ) × Recommended dose ( mg / kg ) • Total number of vials = Total dose ( mg ) divided by 20 mg / vial • Round to the next whole vial and remove the required number of vials from the refrigerator to allow them to reach room temperature .
• Volume ( mL ) of calculated total dose = Total dose ( mg ) divided by the 2 mg / mL concentration • Volume ( mL ) of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride for dilution = Total infusion volume ( mL ) for patient ' s weight ( see Table 1 ) - Volume ( mL ) of calculated total dose Table 1 : Total Infusion Volumes [ 1 ] Weight Range ( kg ) 1 mg / kg dose 3 mg / kg dose 5 mg / kg dose Total Infusion Volume ( mL ) Total Infusion Volume ( mL ) Total Infusion Volume ( mL ) 1 to 2 . 9 4 8 12 3 to 5 . 9 6 12 20 6 to 10 . 9 10 25 50 11 to 24 . 9 25 50 150 25 to 49 . 9 50 100 250 50 to 99 . 9 100 250 500 100 to 120 . 9 250 500 600 [ 1 ] The infusion volume should be based on the prescribed dose and should be prepared to a final KANUMA concentration of 0 . 1 mg / mL to 1 . 5 mg / mL .
• Mix gently by inversion .
Do not shake the vials or the prepared infusion .
• The solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
The solution should be a clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly colored solution .
Thin , translucent particles or fibers may be present in the vials or diluted solution .
Do not use if the solution is cloudy or if other particulate matter is observed .
• Vials are for single - use only .
Discard any unused product .
Do not freeze .
2 . 3 Administration Instructions Administer the diluted solution as an intravenous infusion using a low - protein binding infusion set with an in - line , low - protein binding 0 . 2 micron filter .
Infuse over at least 2 hours .
Consider further prolonging the infusion time for patients receiving dosages greater than 1 mg / kg or those who have experienced hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
A 1 - hour infusion may be considered for those patients receiving the 1 mg / kg dose who tolerate the infusion .
2 . 4 Storage of Diluted Solution KANUMA contains no preservatives ; therefore , product should be used immediately after dilution .
If immediate use is not possible , the diluted product may be stored up to 24 hours in the refrigerator at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) .
Do not freeze or shake .
Protect from light .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Injection : 20 mg / 10 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly colored solution in single - dose vials .
Injection : 20 mg / 10 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) solution in single - dose vials .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis : Observe patients during and after the infusion .
Consider interrupting the infusion or lowering the infusion rate , based on the severity of the reaction .
If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs , immediately stop the infusion and initiate appropriate treatment .
Pre - treatment with antipyretics and / or antihistamines may prevent subsequent reactions in those cases where symptomatic treatment is required .
( 5 . 1 ) • Hypersensitivity to Eggs or Egg Products : Consider the risks and benefits of treatment in patients with known systemic hypersensitivity reactions to eggs or egg products .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hypersensitivity Reactions Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , have been reported in KANUMA - treated patients , based on application of Sampson criteria to identify signs / symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis .
In clinical trials , 3 ( infants ) of 106 ( 3 % ) patients treated with KANUMA experienced signs and symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis .
These patients experienced reactions during infusion with signs and symptoms including chest discomfort , conjunctival injection , dyspnea , generalized and itchy rash , hyperemia , swelling of eyelids , rhinorrhea , severe respiratory distress , tachycardia , tachypnea , and urticaria .
Anaphylaxis has occurred as early as the sixth infusion and as late as 1 year after treatment initiation .
In clinical trials , 21 of 106 ( 20 % ) KANUMA - treated patients , including 9 of 14 ( 64 % ) infants and 12 of 92 ( 13 % ) pediatric patients who were 4 years and older and adults , experienced signs and symptoms either consistent with or that may be related to a hypersensitivity reaction .
Signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions , occurring in two or more patients , included abdominal pain , agitation , fever , chills , diarrhea , eczema , edema , hypertension , irritability , laryngeal edema , nausea , pallor , pruritus , rash , and vomiting .
The majority of reactions occurred during or within 4 hours of the completion of the infusion .
Patients were not routinely pre - medicated prior to infusion of KANUMA in these clinical trials .
Due to the potential for anaphylaxis , appropriate medical support should be readily available when KANUMA is administered .
If anaphylaxis occurs , immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Observe patients closely during and after the infusion .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and instruct them to seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur .
The management of hypersensitivity reactions should be based on the severity of the reaction and may include temporarily interrupting the infusion , lowering the infusion rate , and / or treatment with antihistamines , antipyretics , and / or corticosteroids .
If interrupted , the infusion may be resumed at a slower rate with increases as tolerated .
Pre - treatment with antipyretics and / or antihistamines may prevent subsequent reactions in those cases where symptomatic treatment was required .
If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs , immediately discontinue the infusion and initiate appropriate medical treatment .
Consider the risks and benefits of re - administering KANUMA following a severe reaction .
Monitor patients , with appropriate resuscitation measures available , if the decision is made to re - administer the product .
5 . 2 Hypersensitivity to Eggs or Egg Products KANUMA is produced in the egg whites of genetically engineered chickens .
Patients with a known history of egg allergies were excluded from the clinical trials .
Consider the risks and benefits of treatment with KANUMA in patients with known systemic hypersensitivity reactions to eggs or egg products .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions are : • Infants with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life ( ≥ 30 % ) : diarrhea , vomiting , fever , rhinitis , anemia , cough , nasopharyngitis , and urticaria .
( 6 . 1 ) • Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency ( ≥ 8 % ) : headache , fever , oropharyngeal pain , nasopharyngitis , asthenia , constipation , and nausea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Alexion at 1 - 844 - 259 - 6783 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
In clinical trials , a total of 106 patients received treatment with KANUMA .
The data described below reflect exposure to KANUMA in 75 patients who received KANUMA at dosages up to 3 mg / kg once weekly in clinical trials : • Nine patients ( 5 males , 4 females ) who had growth failure or other evidence of rapidly progressive LAL deficiency presenting within the first 6 months of life received KANUMA for up to 165 weeks ( median 60 weeks ) at escalating doses ranging between 0 . 35 mg / kg and 5 mg / kg once weekly [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 . 1 ) ] .
• 66 pediatric and adult patients with LAL deficiency aged 4 to 58 years ( 33 males , 33 females ) received KANUMA 1 mg / kg every other week for up to 36 weeks .
Table 2 summarizes the most common adverse reactions occurring in > 30 % of patients with rapidly progressive LAL deficiency presenting within the first 6 months of life receiving KANUMA in Study 1 .
Table 2 : Adverse Reactions in ≥ 30 % of Infants with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life Receiving KANUMAAdverse Reactions KANUMA N = 9 n ( % ) Diarrhea 6 ( 67 ) Vomiting 6 ( 67 ) Fever 5 ( 56 ) Rhinitis 5 ( 56 ) Anemia 4 ( 44 ) Cough 3 ( 33 ) Nasopharyngitis 3 ( 33 ) Urticaria 3 ( 33 ) Other less common adverse reactions reported in patients with rapidly progressive disease presenting within the first 6 months of life who received KANUMA included hypotonia , decreased oxygen saturation , retching , sneezing , and tachycardia .
For infant patients within Study 1 and Study 3 ( n = 19 ) , the following additional adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 30 % of infants who received Kanuma since the time of marketing authorization , including patients who received an escalated dose to 5 mg / kg qw : hypersensitivity , respiratory distress , and tachycardia .
Table 3 summarizes the most common adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 8 % of pediatric and adult patients with LAL deficiency receiving KANUMA in Study 2 .
Table 3 : Adverse Reactions in ≥ 8 % of Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency Receiving KANUMAAdverse Reactions KANUMA N = 36 Placebo N = 30 n ( % ) n ( % ) Headache 10 ( 28 ) 6 ( 20 ) Fever 9 ( 25 ) 7 ( 23 ) Oropharyngeal pain 6 ( 17 ) 1 ( 3 ) Nasopharyngitis 4 ( 11 ) 3 ( 10 ) Asthenia 3 ( 8 ) 1 ( 3 ) Constipation 3 ( 8 ) 1 ( 3 ) Nausea 3 ( 8 ) 2 ( 7 ) Other less common adverse reactions reported in pediatric and adult patients who received KANUMA included anxiety and chest discomfort .
For pediatric and adult patients ( n = 106 ) , the following additional adverse reactions were reported in ≥ 8 % of pediatric and adult patients who received Kanuma since the time of marketing authorization , including patients who received an escalated dose to 3 mg / kg qw : hypersensitivity , diarrhea , abdominal pain , and dizziness .
Hyperlipidemia Increases in circulating LDL - cholesterol ( LDL - c ) and triglycerides above pre - treatment values were observed in 29 of 36 ( 81 % ) and 21 of 36 ( 58 % ) patients , respectively , at 2 and 4 weeks following initiation of KANUMA [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The maximum mean percentage increase was 18 % for LDL - c at Week 2 and 5 % for triglycerides at Week 4 .
6 . 2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins , there is potential for immunogenicity .
The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology , sample handling , timing of sample collection , concomitant medications , and underlying disease .
For these reasons , comparison of the incidence of antibodies in the studies described below with the incidence of antibodies in other studies or to other sebelipase alfa products may be misleading .
Approximately 8 % ( 9 / 106 ) of pediatric and adult patients with LAL deficiency developed antibodies to sebelipase alfa ( anti - drug antibodies or ADA ) following treatment with KANUMA across all clinical studies .
Among the 9 patients who developed ADA , 2 patients were positive for neutralizing antibodies ( NAb ) .
Approximately 53 % ( 10 / 19 ) of infants with rapidly progressive LAL deficiency developed ADA following treatment with KANUMA across all clinical studies .
Among the 10 patients who developed ADA , 9 patients were positive for NAb .
Study 1 : Patients with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life Seven of the 9 infants with rapidly progressive disease had at least one post - treatment ADA assessment , and 4 of these 7 ( 57 % ) patients developed ADA during treatment with KANUMA .
All of the 4 ADA - positive patients were determined to be positive for neutralizing antibodies that inhibit in vitro enzyme activity and / or cellular uptake of the enzyme .
At the time of initial ADA positivity , 3 patients were receiving a dosage of 1 mg / kg once weekly and 1 patient was receiving a dosage of 3 mg / kg once weekly .
Three of the 4 ADA - positive patients had ADA titers monitored from the initiation of treatment and developed measurable ADA titers within the first 2 months of exposure .
Persistent ADA was observed in all 4 patients .
Hypersensitivity reactions occurred in all 4 of the ADA - positive patients , whereas they occurred in only 1 of the 3 ADA - negative patients .
None of the patients discontinued treatment .
In 1 patient , decreased growth velocity in a setting of neutralizing antibodies to KANUMA was observed .
Study 2 : Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency Five of 35 ( 14 % ) KANUMA - treated pediatric and adult patients who completed the 20 - week double - blind period of study treatment developed ADA .
All patients were receiving 1 mg / kg once every other week .
All 5 ADA - positive patients first developed measurable ADA titers within the first 3 months of exposure .
Two of the 5 ADA - positive patients had a measurable ADA titer at only one time point .
In the 3 patients with measurable ADA titers at multiple time points , ADA titers decreased to undetectable levels during continued treatment .
Two patients developed in vitro neutralizing antibodies during the open - label extension phase after 20 weeks and 52 weeks of treatment with KANUMA , respectively .
There is no clear association between the development of ADA and decreased efficacy in pediatric and adult patients treated with KANUMA .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data with KANUMA use in pregnant women are insufficient to identify a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
Animal reproductive studies conducted with sebelipase alfa showed no evidence of embryolethality , fetotoxicity , teratogenicity , or abnormal early embryonic development at dosages up to 164 and 526 times the human dosage of 1 mg / kg every other week ( based on AUC ) in rats and rabbits , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Animal Data Sebelipase alfa administered during the period of organogenesis to rats ( on gestation days 6 , 9 , 12 , 15 and 17 ) and rabbits ( on gestation days 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 and 19 ) at intravenous doses up to 60 and 50 mg / kg , respectively , ( approximately 164 and 526 times the human AUC of 1387 ng . h / mL at 1 mg / kg dose administered once every other week , respectively ) did not cause any adverse effects on embryofetal development .
A pre - and post - natal development study in rats showed no evidence of adverse effects on pre - and postnatal development at intravenous doses ( administered on gestation days 6 , 9 , 12 , 15 , 18 , and 20 and days 4 , 7 , 10 , 14 , and 17 postpartum ) of sebelipase alfa up to 60 mg / kg / day ( approximately 164 times the human AUC of 1387 ng . h / mL at 1 mg / kg dose administered once every other week ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of sebelipase alfa in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
It is not known if sebelipase alfa is present in animal milk .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for KANUMA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from sebelipase alfa or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of KANUMA have been established in pediatric patients aged 1 month and older .
Clinical trials with KANUMA were conducted in 56 pediatric patients ( range 1 month to < 18 years old ) [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of KANUMA did not include any patients aged 65 years old and older .
It is not known whether they respond differently than younger patients .
11 DESCRIPTION Sebelipase alfa is a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase ( rhLAL ) that is a lysosomal glycoprotein enzyme produced by recombinant DNA technology in the egg white of eggs laid by genetically engineered chickens .
Purified sebelipase alfa is a monomeric glycoprotein containing 6 N - linked glycosylation sites and has a molecular mass of approximately 55 kDa .
The amino acid sequence for sebelipase alfa is the same as the amino acid sequence for human LAL .
The specific activity of sebelipase alfa is 195 to 345 units / mg .
One unit is the amount of enzyme activity that catalyzes the hydrolysis of 1 micromole of the synthetic substrate 4 - methylumbelliferyl oleate per minute at 37 ° C under specified assay conditions .
KANUMA ( sebelipase alfa ) injection is supplied as a sterile , preservative - free , non - pyrogenic clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly colored aqueous solution in single - dose vials for intravenous infusion .
Each vial contains sebelipase alfa 20 mg / 10 mL .
Each mL of solution contains sebelipase alfa ( 2 mg ) , citric acid monohydrate ( 1 . 57 mg ) , Human Serum Albumin ( 10 mg ) , and trisodium citrate dihydrate ( 13 . 7 mg ) at pH 5 . 9 .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action LAL deficiency is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by a genetic defect resulting in a marked decrease or loss in activity of the lysosomal acid lipase ( LAL ) enzyme .
The primary site of action of the LAL enzyme is the lysosome , where the enzyme normally causes the breakdown of lipid particles , including LDL - c and triglycerides .
Deficient LAL enzyme activity results in progressive complications due to the lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in multiple organs , including the liver , spleen , intestine , and the walls of blood vessels .
The resulting lipid accumulation in the liver may lead to increased liver fat content and progression of liver disease , including fibrosis and cirrhosis .
Lipid accumulation in the intestinal wall leads to malabsorption and growth failure .
In parallel , dyslipidemia due to impaired degradation of lysosomal lipid is common with elevated LDL - c and triglycerides and low HDL - cholesterol ( HDL - c ) .
Sebelipase alfa binds to cell surface receptors via glycans expressed on the protein and is subsequently internalized into lysosomes .
Sebelipase alfa catalyzes the lysosomal hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides to free cholesterol , glycerol and free fatty acids .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In clinical trials , after initiation of dosing with KANUMA , breakdown of accumulated lysosomal lipid led to initial increases in LDL - c and triglycerides within the first 2 to 4 weeks of treatment .
In general , following increases in LDL - c and triglycerides , these parameters decreased to below pre - treatment values within 8 weeks of treatment with KANUMA .
In all patients with elevated alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) values at baseline ( 82 of 84 patients in clinical trials ) , reductions in ALT values were observed , generally within 2 weeks after initiation of treatment with KANUMA .
Treatment interruption resulted in increases in LDL - c and ALT values and decreases in HDL - c .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetic profile of sebelipase alfa was nonlinear with a greater than dose - proportional increase in exposure between 1 and 3 mg / kg based on non - compartmental analysis of data from 26 adults .
No accumulation was observed following once weekly or once every other week dosing .
Using a population pharmacokinetic model , sebelipase alfa pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated for 65 pediatric and adult patients who received intravenous infusions of KANUMA at 1 mg / kg at Week 22 ( Table 4 ) ; 24 patients were 4 to 11 years old , 23 were 12 to 17 years old , and 18 were adults .
The pharmacokinetic profiles of sebelipase alfa were similar between adolescents and adults .
The Tmax and T1 / 2 were similar across all age groups .
Table 4 : Mean ( SD ) Pharmacokinetics Parameters at Week 22 in Pediatric and Adult Patients Receiving 1 mg / kg Once Every Other WeekParameter 4 - 11 years old 12 - 17 years old ≥ 18 years old N = 24 N = 23 N = 18 Parameter values were estimated using a population pharmacokinetic model .
AUC = Area under the plasma concentration time curve .
Cmax = Maximum concentration .
Tmax = Time to maximum concentration .
CL = Clearance .
Vc = Central volume of distribution .
T1 / 2 = Half - life .
AUC ( ng ∙ hr / mL ) 942 ( 388 ) 1454 ( 699 ) 1861 ( 599 ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) 490 ( 205 ) 784 ( 480 ) 957 ( 303 ) Tmax ( hr ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 6 ) 1 . 1 ( 0 . 3 ) 1 . 3 ( 0 . 6 ) CL ( L / hr ) 31 . 1 ( 7 . 1 ) 37 . 4 ( 12 . 4 ) 38 . 2 ( 12 . 5 ) Vc ( L ) 3 . 6 ( 3 . 0 ) 5 . 4 ( 2 . 4 ) 5 . 3 ( 1 . 6 ) T1 / 2 ( min ) 5 . 4 ( 4 . 3 ) 6 . 6 ( 3 . 7 ) 6 . 6 ( 3 . 7 ) 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential or studies to evaluate mutagenic potential have not been performed with sebelipase alfa .
Sebelipase alfa at intravenous doses up to 60 mg / kg administered twice weekly ( approximately 164 times the human AUC of 1387 ng . h / mL at 1 mg / kg dose administered once every other week ) was found to have no adverse effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In a rat disease model of LAL deficiency that exhibits several abnormalities analogous to the human disease , sebelipase alfa administered intravenously at dosages up to 3 mg / kg once weekly showed improvements in survival , body weight gain , organ weight reduction , reduction in serum transaminases ( ALT and aspartate aminotransferase [ AST ] ) , reduction in serum and hepatic lipids , and improvement in liver histopathology .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES 14 . 1 Infants with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life A multicenter , open - label , single - arm clinical study of KANUMA was conducted in 9 infants with LAL deficiency who had growth failure or other evidence of rapidly progressive disease prior to 6 months of age .
The age range at entry was 1 to 6 months .
Patients received KANUMA at 0 . 35 mg / kg once weekly for the first 2 weeks and then 1 mg / kg once weekly .
Due to suboptimal clinical response , doses in all 6 surviving patients were escalated to 3 mg / kg once weekly , between 4 and 88 weeks ( median 11 weeks ) after starting treatment at 1 mg / kg .
The efficacy of KANUMA was assessed by comparing the survival of the 9 KANUMA - treated patients ( followed in the open - label , single - arm trial ) at 12 months of age to the survival in an untreated , historical cohort of 21 patients with a similar age at disease presentation and clinical characteristics .
Of the 9 KANUMA - treated patients , 6 patients survived beyond 12 months of age , compared to 0 of 21 patients who survived in the historical cohort , all of whom had died by 8 months of age .
The median age of the 6 surviving KANUMA - treated patients was 18 . 1 months ( range 12 to 42 . 2 months ) .
Following initiation of treatment with KANUMA 1 mg / kg once weekly , weight - for - age ( WFA ) z - scores improved in 3 of 5 surviving patients with growth failure , and all 6 surviving patients demonstrated improvements in WFA z - scores following dose escalation to 3 mg / kg once weekly .
Continuation Treatment Across Study 1 and another study , Study 3 , in infants with rapidly progressive LAL Deficiency , 9 patients received successive dose escalations up to 5 mg / kg once weekly due to suboptimal clinical response [ see Recommended Dosage ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
The median duration of exposure to 5 mg / kg for the 9 patients whose doses were escalated to 5 mg / kg once weekly was 33 months ( range 27 to 39 months ) for patients in Study 1 and 15 months ( range 5 to 24 months ) in Study 3 .
Of the 9 patients whose KANUMA dose was escalated to 5 mg / kg once weekly , 6 were alive at their last follow up at 3 years , and 2 were alive at their last follow up at 5 years .
Of these 9 patients , 6 experienced normalization of ALT and / or AST which had remained abnormal on the lower KANUMA dose .
14 . 2 Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency The safety and efficacy of KANUMA were assessed in 66 pediatric and adult patients with LAL deficiency , aged 4 to 58 years ( 71 % were less than 18 years old ) , in a multicenter , double - blind , placebo - controlled trial .
Patients were randomized to receive KANUMA at a dosage of 1 mg / kg ( n = 36 ) or placebo ( n = 30 ) once every other week for 20 weeks in the double - blind period .
Sixty - two of the 66 ( 94 % ) patients had LDL - c of 130 mg / dL or greater at study entry .
The majority of patients ( 58 % ) had LDL - c above 190 mg / dL at study entry , and 24 % of patients with LDL - c above 190 mg / dL remained on lipid lowering medications .
At the completion of the 20 - week double - blind period of the trial , a statistically significant improvement in percent change from baseline in LDL - c was observed in the KANUMA - treated group as compared to the placebo group ( mean difference and 95 % C . I . : - 22 % , [ - 33 % , - 15 % ] ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
LDL - c of less than 130 mg / dL was achieved in 13 of 32 ( 41 % ; 95 % C . I . : [ 24 % , 58 % ] ) KANUMA - treated patients and in only 2 of 30 ( 7 % ; 95 % C . I . : [ 0 % , 16 % ] ) placebo - treated patients with baseline LDL - c of 130 mg / dL or greater .
A statistically significant improvement in percent change from baseline at 20 weeks was also observed in the KANUMA - treated group compared to the placebo group for other parameters related to LAL deficiency , including decreases in non - HDL - c ( mean difference and 95 % C . I . : - 21 % , [ - 30 % , - 15 % ] ; p < 0 . 0001 ) and triglycerides ( mean difference and 95 % C . I . : - 14 % , [ - 28 % , - 1 % ] ; p = 0 . 0375 ) , and increases in HDL - c ( mean difference and 95 % C . I . : 20 % , [ 12 % , 26 % ] ; p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The effect of KANUMA on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been established .
Patients treated with KANUMA had larger reductions from baseline in ALT values and liver fat content ( measured by MRI ) , compared to patients treated with placebo .
The significance of these findings as they relate to progression of liver disease in LAL deficiency has not been established .
Open Label Treatment Pediatric and adult patients who participated in the randomized , placebo - controlled trial were eligible to continue treatment in an open - label extension .
Sixty - five of the 66 patients entered the open - label extension and were treated with KANUMA at a dosage of 1 mg / kg once every other week .
During the open - label extension , patients treated with KANUMA for up to 36 weeks demonstrated improvements in lipid parameters , including LDL - c and HDL - c levels , and ALT .
Continuation Treatment Across Study 2 and another study , Study 4 , in children and adults with LAL Deficiency , 23 of 97 patients received dose escalations from the protocol - defined starting dose of 1 mg / kg every other week ( 12 patients in Study 2 and 11 patients in Study 4 ) .
The median duration of exposure to the 3 mg / kg every other week regimen was 28 months ( range 6 to 33 months ) for patients in Study 2 and 12 months ( range 3 to 27 months ) in Study 4 .
Before being escalated to 3 mg / kg every other week , patients were on 1 mg / kg every other week for a median of 19 months ( range 6 to 33 months ) , and most dose escalations were initiated in response to an increase in serum transaminase levels , an increase in serum lipids , or a decrease in WFA z - scores in children .
Of the 23 patients whose KANUMA dose was escalated to 3 mg / kg every other week , 20 were children .
After the dose escalation , 14 of the 23 patients experienced normalization of one or more of the following biomarkers which had remained abnormally high on the lower KANUMA dose : serum transaminases , triglycerides , and / or LDL - c .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING KANUMA ( sebelipase alfa ) injection is a preservative - free , clear to slightly opalescent , colorless to slightly colored , nonpyrogenic solution supplied as 20 mg / 10 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) in single - dose , glass vials .
NDC 25682 - 007 - 01 : 20 mg / 10 mL vial Store KANUMA refrigerated at 2 ° C to 8 ° C ( 36 ° F to 46 ° F ) in original carton to protect from light .
Do not shake or freeze the vials .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypersensitivity Reactions , including Anaphylaxis Advise patients and caregivers that reactions related to administration and infusion may occur during and after KANUMA treatment , including anaphylactic reactions , life - threatening anaphylaxis and severe hypersensitivity reactions .
Inform patients of the signs and symptoms of anaphylactic reactions , anaphylaxis and hypersensitivity reactions , and have them seek immediate medical care should signs and symptoms occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity to Eggs or Egg Products KANUMA is produced in the egg whites of genetically engineered chickens .
Patients with a known history of egg allergies were excluded from the clinical trials .
Consider the risks and benefits of treatment with KANUMA in patients with known systemic hypersensitivity reactions to eggs or egg products .
[ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured by : Alexion Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
121 Seaport Boulevard , Boston MA 02210 USA US License Number : 1743 1 - 888 - 765 - 4747 ( phone ) KANUMA is a registered trademark of Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc .
© 2021 Alexion Pharmaceuticals , Inc PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mg / 10 mL Vial Carton NDC 25682 - 007 - 01 Rx only Kanuma ® ( sebelipase alfa ) Injection 20 mg / 10 mL ( 2 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Infusion Only Dilute Before Use Single - Use Only Discard Unused Portion 1 vial ALEXION ® [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
