Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Purpose Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Cough suppressant Guaifenesin 100 mg Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma Stop use and ask a doctor if cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • measure only with dosing cup provided • do not use dosing cup with other products • mL = milliliter Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 5 mL – 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 2 . 5 mL – 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • tamper evident : do not use if printed neckband on bottle cap is broken or missing • store between 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) • do not refrigerate • dosing cup provided Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , anhydrous citric acid , D & C red # 33 , FD & C red # 40 , flavor , glycerin , maltitol , propylene glycol , purified water , saccharin sodium , sodium benzoate , sorbitol , xanthan gum Questions ?
1 - 866 - MUCINEX ( 1 - 866 - 682 - 4639 ) You may also report side effects to this phone number .
Dist .
by : Reckitt Benckiser , Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0224 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 118 mL Bottle Carton NDC 63824 - 281 - 64 Children ' s Mucinex ® Cough Guaifenesin 100 mg Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Expectorant Cough Suppressant ✓ Cough ✓ Chest Congestion ✓ Breaks up Mucus ✓ Alcohol - free Cherry Flavor Liquid 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
