BOXED WARNING Cardiovascular Risk • NSAIDs may cause an increased risk of serious cardiovascular thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
This risk may increase with duration of use .
Patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors for cardiovascular disease may be at greater risk ( See WARNINGS ) .
• Flurbiprofen tablet , USP is contraindicated for treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( see WARNINGS ) .
Gastrointestinal Risk • NSAIDs cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach or intestines , which can be fatal .
These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms .
Elderly patients are at greater risk for serious gastrointestinal events ( See WARNINGS ) .
DESCRIPTION Flurbiprofen tablet , USP contain flurbiprofen , which is a member of the phenylalkanoic acid derivative group of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP are white , oval , film - coated tablets for oral administration .
Flurbiprofen is a racemic mixture of ( + ) S - and ( - ) R - enantiomers .
Flurbiprofen is a white or slightly yellow crystalline powder .
It is slightly soluble in water at pH 7 . 0 and readily soluble in most polar solvents .
The chemical name is [ 1 , 1 ' - biphenyl ] - 4 - acetic acid , 2 - fluoro - alphamethyl - , ( ± ) - .
The molecular weight is 244 . 26 .
Its molecular formula is C15H13FO2 and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet , for oral administration contains 50 mg or 100 mg of Flurbiprofen .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , titanium dioxide , polydextrose , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , polyethylene glycol , yellow iron oxide , black iron oxide , glyceryl triacetate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Flurbiprofen tablet , USP contain flurbiprofen , a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug that exhibits anti - inflammatory , analgesic , and antipyretic activities in animal models .
The mechanism of action of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , like that of other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , is not completely understood but may be related to prostaglandin synthetase inhibition .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : The mean oral bioavailability of flurbiprofen from Flurbiprofen tablet , USP 100 mg is 96 % relative to an oral solution .
Flurbiprofen is rapidly and non - stereoselectively absorbed from Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , with peak plasma concentrations occurring at about 2 hours ( see Table 1 ) .
Administration of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP with either food or antacids may alter the rate but not the extent of flurbiprofen absorption .
Ranitidine has been shown to have no effect on either the rate or extent of flurbiprofen absorption from Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
Distribution : The apparent volume of distribution ( Vz / F ) of both R - and S - flurbiprofen is approximately 0 . 12 L / Kg .
Both flurbiprofen enantiomers are more than 99 % bound to plasma proteins , primarily albumin .
Plasma protein binding is relatively constant for the typical average steady - state concentrations ( ≤ 10 µg / mL ) achieved with recommended doses .
Flurbiprofen is poorly excreted into human milk .
The nursing infant dose is predicted to be approximately 0 . 1 mg / day in the established milk of a woman taking Flurbiprofen tablet , USP 200 mg / day ( see PRECAUTIONS , Nursing Mothers ) .
Metabolism : Several flurbiprofen metabolites have been identified in human plasma and urine .
These metabolites include 4 ' - hydroxy - flurbiprofen , 3 ' , 4 ' - dihydroxy - flurbiprofen , 3 ' - hydroxy - 4 ' - methoxy - flurbiprofen , their conjugates , and conjugated flurbiprofen .
Unlike other arylpropionic acid derivatives ( eg , ibuprofen ) , metabolism of R - flurbiprofen to S - flurbiprofen is minimal .
In vitro studies have demonstrated that cytochrome P450 2C9 plays an important role in the metabolism of flurbiprofen to its major metabolite , 4 ' - hydroxy - flurbiprofen .
The 4 ' - hydroxy - flurbiprofen metabolite showed little anti - inflammatory activity in animal models of inflammation .
Flurbiprofen does not induce enzymes that alter its metabolism .
The total plasma clearance of unbound flurbiprofen is not stereoselective , and clearance of flurbiprofen is independent of dose when used within the therapeutic range .
Excretion : Following dosing with Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , less than 3 % of flurbiprofen is excreted unchanged in the urine , with about 70 % of the dose eliminated in the urine as parent drug and metabolites .
Because renal elimination is a significant pathway of elimination of flurbiprofen metabolites , dosing adjustment in patients with moderate or severe renal dysfunction may be necessary to avoid accumulation of flurbiprofen metabolites .
The mean terminal disposition half - lives ( t ½ ) of R - and S - flurbiprofen are similar , about 4 . 7 and 5 . 7 hours , respectively .
There is little accumulation of flurbiprofen following multiple doses of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
Table 1 .
Mean ( SD ) R , S - Flurbiprofen Pharmacokinetic Parameters Normalized to a 100 mg Dose of Flurbiprofen tablet , USPPharmacokinetic Parameter Normal Healthy Adults * ( 18 to 40 years ) N = 15 Geriatric Arthritis Patients † ( 65 to 83 years ) N = 13 End Stage Renal Disease Patients * ( 23 to 42 years ) N = 8 Alcoholic Cirrhosis Patients ‡ ( 31 to 61 years ) N = 8 * 100 mg single - dose † Steady - state evaluation of 100 mg every 12 hours ‡ 200 mg single - dose § Calculated from mean parameter values of both flurbiprofen enantiomers װ Not available ¶ AUC from 0 to infinity for single doses and from 0 to the end of the dosing interval for multiple doses # Value for S - flurbiprofen Peak Concentration ( Tg / mL ) 14 ( 4 ) 16 ( 5 ) 9 § 9 § Time of Peak Concentration ( h ) 1 . 9 ( 1 . 5 ) 2 . 2 ( 3 ) 2 . 3 § 1 . 2 § Urinary Recovery of Unchanged Flurbiprofen ( % of Dose ) 2 . 9 ( 1 . 3 ) 0 . 6 ( 0 . 6 ) 0 . 02 ( 0 . 02 ) NAװ Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) ¶ ( Tg h / mL ) 83 ( 20 ) 77 ( 24 ) 44 § 50 § Apparent Volume of Distribution ( Vz / F , L ) 14 ( 3 ) 12 ( 5 ) 10 § 14 § Terminal Disposition Half - life ( t ½ , h ) 7 . 5 ( 0 . 8 ) 5 . 8 ( 1 . 9 ) 3 . 3 # 5 . 4 # Special Populations Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen have not been investigated in pediatric patients .
Race : No pharmacokinetic differences due to race have been identified .
Geriatric : Flurbiprofen pharmacokinetics were similar in geriatric arthritis patients , younger arthritis patients , and young healthy volunteers receiving Flurbiprofen tablet , USP 100 mg as either single or multiple doses .
Hepatic insufficiency : Hepatic metabolism may account for > 90 % of flurbiprofen elimination , so patients with hepatic disease may require reduced doses of Flurbiprofen tablets , USP compared to patients with normal hepatic function .
The pharmacokinetics of R - and S - flurbiprofen were similar , however , in alcoholic cirrhosis patients ( N = 8 ) and young healthy volunteers ( N = 8 ) following administration of a single 200 mg dose of Flurbiprofen tablets , USP .
Flurbiprofen plasma protein binding may be decreased in patients with liver disease and serum albumin concentrations below 3 . 1 g / dL ( see PRECAUTIONS , Hepatic Effects ) .
Renal insufficiency : Renal clearance is an important route of elimination for flurbiprofen metabolites , but a minor route of elimination for unchanged flurbiprofen ( ≤ 3 % of total clearance ) .
The unbound clearances of R - and S - flurbiprofen did not differ significantly between normal healthy volunteers ( N = 6 , 50 mg single dose ) and patients with renal impairment ( N = 8 , inulin clearances ranging from 11 to 43 mL / min , 50 mg multiple doses ) .
Flurbiprofen plasma protein binding may be decreased in patients with renal impairment and serum albumin concentrations below 3 . 9 g / dL .
Elimination of flurbiprofen metabolites may be reduced in patients with renal impairment ( see PRECAUTIONS , Renal Effects ) .
Flurbiprofen is not significantly removed from the blood into dialysate in patients undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis .
Drug - Drug Interactions ( see also PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) Antacids : Administration of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP to volunteers under fasting conditions or with antacid suspension yielded similar serum flurbiprofen - time profiles in young adult subjects ( n = 12 ) .
In geriatric subjects ( n = 7 ) , there was a reduction in the rate but not the extent of flurbiprofen absorption .
Aspirin : Concurrent administration of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP and aspirin resulted in 50 % lower serum flurbiprofen concentrations .
This effect of aspirin ( which is also seen with other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ) has been demonstrated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( n = 15 ) and in healthy volunteers ( n = 16 ) ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents : The effect of flurbiprofen on blood pressure response to propranolol and atenolol was evaluated in men with mild uncomplicated hypertension ( n = 10 ) .
Flurbiprofen pretreatment attenuated the hypotensive effect of a single dose of propranolol but not atenolol .
Flurbiprofen did not appear to affect the beta - blocker - mediated reduction in heart rate .
Flurbiprofen did not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of either drug ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cimetidine , Ranitidine : In normal volunteers ( n = 9 ) , pretreatment with cimetidine or ranitidine did not affect flurbiprofen pharmacokinetics , except for a small ( 13 % ) but statistically significant increase in the area under the serum concentration curve of flurbiprofen in subjects who received cimetidine .
Digoxin : In studies of healthy males ( n = 14 ) , concomitant administration of flurbiprofen and digoxin did not change the steady state serum levels of either drug .
Diuretics : Studies in healthy volunteers have shown that , like other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , flurbiprofen can interfere with the effects of furosemide .
Although results have varied from study to study , effects have been shown on furosemide - stimulated diuresis , natriuresis , and kaliuresis .
Other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis have been shown to interfere with thiazide and potassium - sparing diuretics ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Lithium : In a study of 11 women with bipolar disorder receiving lithium carbonate at a dosage of 600 to 1200 mg / day , administration of 100 mg Flurbiprofen tablet , USP every 12 hours increased plasma lithium concentrations by 19 % .
Four of 11 patients experienced a clinically important increase ( > 25 % or > 0 . 2 mmol / L ) .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs have also been reported to decrease the renal clearance of lithium by about 20 % ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Methotrexate : In a study of six adult arthritis patients , coadministration of methotrexate ( 10 to 25 mg / dose ) and Flurbiprofen tablet , USP ( 300 mg / day ) resulted in no observable interaction between these two drugs .
Oral Hypoglycemic Agents : In a clinical study , flurbiprofen was administered to adult diabetics who were already receiving glyburide ( n = 4 ) , metformin ( n = 2 ) , chlorpropamide with phenformin ( n = 3 ) , or glyburide with phenformin ( n = 6 ) .
Although there was a slight reduction in blood sugar concentrations during concomitant administration of flurbiprofen and hypoglycemic agents , there were no signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( see WARNINGS ) .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP is indicated : • For relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis .
• For relief of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Flurbiprofen tablets , USP are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to flurbiprofen .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should not be given to patients who have experienced asthma , urticaria , or allergic - type reactions after taking aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Severe , rarely fatal , anaphylactic - like reactions to nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs have been reported in such patients ( see WARNINGS , Anaphylactoid Reactions , and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ) .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP is contraindicated for the treatment of peri - operative pain in the setting of coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery ( see WARNINGS ) .
WARNINGS CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events Clinical trials of several COX - 2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular ( CV ) thrombotic events , myocardial infarction , and stroke , which can be fatal .
All NSAIDs , both COX - 2 selective and nonselective , may have a similar risk .
Patients with known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease may be at greater risk .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in patients treated with an NSAID , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest duration possible .
Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events , even in the absence of previous CV symptoms .
Patients should be informed about the signs and / or symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur .
There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use .
The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID does increase the risk of serious GI events ( see GI WARNINGS ) .
Two large , controlled clinical trials of a COX - 2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10 - 14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Hypertension NSAIDs including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , can lead to onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre - existing hypertension , either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events .
Patients taking thiazides or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs .
NSAIDs , including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , should be used with caution in patients with hypertension .
Blood pressure ( BP ) should be monitored closely during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy .
Congestive Heart Failure and Edema Fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients taking NSAIDs .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be used with caution in patients with fluid retention or heart failure .
Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding , and Perforation NSAIDs , including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , can cause serious gastrointestinal ( GI ) adverse events including inflammation , bleeding , ulceration , and perforation of the stomach , small intestine , or large intestine , which can be fatal .
These serious adverse events can occur at any time , with or without warning symptoms , in patients treated with NSAIDs .
Only one in five patients , who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy , is symptomatic .
Upper GI ulcers , gross bleeding , or perforation caused by NSAIDs occur in approximately 1 % of patients treated for 3 - 6 months , and in about 2 - 4 % of patients treated for one year .
These trends continue with longer duration of use , increasing the likelihood of developing a serious GI event at some time during the course of therapy .
However , even short - term therapy is not without risk .
NSAIDs should be prescribed with extreme caution in those with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and / or gastrointestinal bleeding who use NSAIDs have a greater than 10 - fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients treated with neither of these risk factors .
Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include concomitant use of oral corticosteroids or anticoagulants , longer duration of NSAID therapy , smoking , use of alcohol , older age , and poor general health status .
Most spontaneous reports of fatal GI events are in elderly or debilitated patients and therefore , special care should be taken in treating this population .
To minimize the potential risk for an adverse GI event in patients treated with an NSAID , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration .
Patients and physicians should remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulcerations and bleeding during NSAID therapy and promptly initiate additional evaluation and treatment if a serious GI event is suspected .
This should include discontinuation of the NSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out .
For high risk patients , alternate therapies that do not involve NSAIDs should be considered .
Renal Effects Long - term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury .
Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion .
In these patients , administration of a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug may cause a dose - dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and , secondarily , in renal blood flow , which may precipitate overt renal decompensation .
Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function , heart failure , liver dysfunction , those taking diuretics and ACE inhibitors , and the elderly .
Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state .
Advanced Renal Disease In clinical studies , the elimination half - life of flurbiprofen was unchanged in patients with renal impairment .
Flurbiprofen metabolites are eliminated primarily by the kidneys .
Elimination of 4 ' - hydroxy - flurbiprofen was reduced in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment .
Therefore , treatment with Flurbiprofen tablet , USP is not recommended in these patients with advanced renal disease .
If Flurbiprofen tablet , USP therapy must be initiated , close monitoring of the patients renal function is advisable ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Anaphylactoid Reactions As with other NSAIDs , anaphylactoid reactions may occur in patients without known prior exposure to Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should not be given to patients with the aspirin triad .
This symptom complex typically occurs in asthmatic patients who experience rhinitis with or without nasal polyps , or who exhibit severe , potentially fatal bronchospasm after taking aspirin or other NSAIDs ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS and PRECAUTIONS , Preexisting Asthma ) .
Emergency help should be sought in cases where an anaphylactoid reaction occurs .
Pregnancy In late pregnancy , as with other NSAIDs , Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
PRECAUTIONS General Flurbiprofen tablet , USP cannot be expected to substitute for corticosteroids or to treat corticosteroid insufficiency .
Abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroids may lead to disease exacerbation .
Patients on prolonged corticosteroid therapy should have their therapy tapered slowly if a decision is made to discontinue corticosteroids .
The pharmacological activity of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP in reducing fever and inflammation may diminish the utility of these diagnostic signs in detecting complications of presumed non - infectious , painful conditions .
Hepatic effects Borderline elevations of one or more liver tests may occur in up to 15 % of patients taking nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
These laboratory abnormalities may progress , may remain unchanged , or may be transient with continuing therapy .
Notable elevations of ALT or AST ( approximately three or more times the upper limit of normal ) have been reported in approximately 1 % of patients in clinical trials with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
In addition , rare cases of severe hepatic reactions , including jaundice , fulminant hepatitis , liver necrosis , and hepatic failure , some of them with fatal outcomes have been reported .
A patient with symptoms and / or signs suggesting liver dysfunction , or with abnormal liver test values , should be evaluated for evidence of the development of a more severe hepatic reaction while on therapy with Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop , or if systemic manifestations occur ( eg , eosinophilia , rash , etc . ) , Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be discontinued .
Hematological effects Anemia is sometimes seen in patients receiving nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
This may be due to fluid retention , GI blood loss , or an incompletely described effect upon erythropoiesis .
Patients on long - term treatment with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , including Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , should have their hemoglobin or hematocrit checked periodically even if they do not exhibit any signs or symptoms of anemia .
Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs inhibit platelet aggregation and have been shown to prolong bleeding time in some patients .
Unlike aspirin , their effect on platelet function is quantitatively less , of shorter duration , and reversible .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP does not generally affect platelet counts , prothrombin time ( PT ) , or partial thromboplastin time ( PTT ) .
Patients receiving Flurbiprofen tablet , USP who may be adversely affected by alterations in platelet function , such as those with coagulation disorders or patients receiving anticoagulants , should be carefully monitored .
Preexisting asthma Patients with asthma may have aspirin - sensitive asthma .
The use of aspirin in patients with aspirin - sensitive asthma has been associated with severe bronchospasm which can be fatal .
Since cross reactivity , including bronchospasm , between aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs has been reported in such aspirin - sensitive patients , Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should not be administered to patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity and should be used with caution in patients with preexisting asthma .
Vision changes Blurred and / or diminished vision has been reported with the use of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Patients experiencing eye complaints should have ophthalmologic examinations .
Information For Patients Information For Patients should be informed of the following information before initiating therapy with an NSAID and periodically during the course of ongoing therapy .
Patients should also be encouraged to read the NSAID Medication Guide that accompanies each prescription dispensed .
• Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , like other NSAIDs , may cause CV side effects , such as MI or stroke , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious CV events can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , weakness , slurring of speech , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up ( see WARNINGS , CARDIOVASCULAR EFFECTS ) .
• Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , like other NSAIDs , can cause GI discomfort and , rarely , serious GI side effects , such as ulcers and bleeding , which may result in hospitalization and even death . Although serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of ulcerations and bleeding , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms including epigastric pain , dyspepsia , melena , and hematemesis .
Patients should be apprised of the importance of this follow - up ( see WARNINGS , Gastrointestinal Effects - Risk of Ulceration , Bleeding and Perforation ) .
• Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , like other NSAIDs , can cause serious skin side effects such as exfoliative dermatitis , SJS and TEN , which may result in hospitalization and even death .
Although serious skin reactions may occur without warning , patients should be alert for the signs and symptoms of skin rash and blisters , fever , or other signs hypersensitivity such as itching , and should ask for medical advice when observing any indicative sign or symptoms .
Patients should be advised to stop the drug immediately if they develop any type of rash and contact their physicians as soon as possible .
• Patients should promptly report , signs or symptoms of unexplained weight gain , or edema to their physicians .
• Patients should be informed of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity ( e . g . , nausea , fatigue , lethargy , pruritus , jaundice , right upper quadrant tenderness and “ flu - like ” symptoms ) .
If these occur , patients should be instructed to stop therapy and seek immediate medical therapy .
• Patients should be informed of the signs of an anaphylactoid reaction ( e . g . difficulty breathing , swelling of the face or throat ) .
If these occur , patients should be instructed to seek immediate emergency help ( see WARNINGS ) .
In late pregnancy , as with other NSAIDs , Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be avoided because it may cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus .
Laboratory Tests Because serious GI tract ulcerations and bleeding can occur without warning symptoms , physicians should monitor for signs of symptoms of GI bleeding .
Patients on long - term treatment with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs should have their CBC and chemistry profile checked periodically .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver or renal disease develop , systemic manifestations occur ( eg , eosinophilia , rash etc . ) , or abnormal liver tests persist or worsen , Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be discontinued .
Drug Interactions ACE - inhibitors : Reports suggest that nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE - inhibitors .
This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs concomitantly with ACE - inhibitors .
Anticoagulants : The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic , such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone .
The physician should be cautious when administering Flurbiprofen tablet , USP to patients taking warfarin or other anticoagulants .
Aspirin : Concurrent administration of aspirin lowers serum flurbiprofen concentrations ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
The clinical significance of this interaction is not known ; however , as with other NSAIDs , concomitant administration of flurbiprofen and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential for increased adverse effects .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents : Flurbiprofen attenuated the hypotensive effect of propranolol but not atenolol ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
The mechanism underlying this interference is unknown .
Patients taking both flurbiprofen and a beta - blocker should be monitored to ensure that a satisfactory hypotensive effect is achieved .
Diuretics : Clinical studies , as well as post marketing observations , have shown that Flurbiprofen tablet , USP can reduce the natriuretic effect - of furosemide and thiazides in some patients .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis .
During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs , the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure ( see PRECAUTIONS , Renal Effects ) , as well as diuretic efficacy .
Lithium : NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance .
The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15 % and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20 % .
These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug .
Thus , when nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs and lithium are administered concurrently , subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity .
Methotrexate : Nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices .
This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate .
Caution should be used when nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate .
Pregnancy Teratogenic effects : Pregnancy Category C Reproductive studies conducted in rats and rabbits have not demonstrated evidence of developmental abnormalities .
However , animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Flurbiprofen tablet , USP should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic effects Because of the known effects of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs on the fetal cardiovascular system ( closure of ductus arteriosus ) , use during late pregnancy should be avoided .
Labor and Delivery In rat studies with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , as with other drugs known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis , an increased incidence of dystocia , delayed parturition , and decreased pup survival occurred .
The effects of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP on labor and delivery in pregnant women are unknown .
Nursing Mothers Concentrations of flurbiprofen in breast milk and plasma of nursing mothers suggest that a nursing infant could receive approximately 0 . 10 mg flurbiprofen per day in the established milk of a woman taking Flurbiprofen tablet , USP 200 mg / day .
Because of possible adverse effects of prostaglandin - inhibiting drugs on neonates , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use As with any NSAID , caution should be exercised in treating the elderly ( 65 years and older ) .
Clinical experience with Flurbiprofen tablet , USP suggests that elderly patients may have a higher incidence of gastrointestinal complaints than younger patients , including ulceration , bleeding , flatulence , bloating , and abdominal pain .
To minimize the potential risk for gastrointestinal events , the lowest effective dose should be used for the shortest possible duration ( see WARNINGS , Gastrointestinal Effects ) .
Likewise , elderly patients are at greater risk of developing renal decompensation ( see WARNINGS , Renal Effects ) .
The pharmacokinetics of flurbiprofen do not seem to differ in elderly patients from those in younger individuals ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Special Populations ) .
The rate of absorption of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP was reduced in elderly patients who also received antacids , although the extent of absorption was not affected ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Drug - Drug Interactions ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONS TABLE 2 .
Reported adverse events in patients receiving Flurbiprofen tablet , USP or other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugsReported in patients treated with Flurbiprofen tablet USP Reported in patients treated with other products but not Flurbiprofen tablet USP Incidence of 1 % or greater † Incidence < 1 % - Causal Relationship Probable ‡ Incidence < 1 % - Causal Relationship Unknown ‡ † from clinical trials ‡ from clinical trials , post - marketing surveillance , or literature BODY AS A WHOLE edema anaphylactic reaction chills fever < 1 % : death infection sepsis CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM congestive heart failure hypertension vascular diseases vasodilation angina pectoris arrhythmias myocardial infarction < 1 % : hypotension palpitations syncope tachycardia vasculitis DIGESTIVE SYSTEM abdominal pain constipation diarrhea dyspepsia / heartburn elevated liver enzymes flatulence GI bleeding nausea vomiting bloody diarrhea esophageal disease gastric / peptic ulcer disease gastritis jaundice ( cholestatic and noncholestatic ) hematemesis hepatitis stomatitis / glossitis appetite changes cholecystitis colitis dry mouth exacerbation of inflammatory bowel disease periodontal abscess small intestine inflammation with loss of blood and protein > 1 % : GI perforation GI ulcers ( gastric / duodenal ) < 1 % : eructation liver failure pancreatitis HEMIC AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEM aplastic anemia ( including agranulocytosis or pancytopenia ) decrease in hemoglobin and hematocrit ecchymosis / purpura eosinophilia hemolytic anemia iron deficiency anemia leukopenia thrombocytopenia lymphadenopathy > 1 % : anemia increased bleeding time < 1 % : melena rectal bleeding METABOLIC AND NUTRITIONAL SYSTEM body weight changes hyperuricemia hyperkalemia < 1 % : hyperglycemia NERVOUS SYSTEM headache nervousness and other manifestations of central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulation ( eg , anxiety , insomnia , increased reflexes , tremor ) symptoms associated with CNS inhibition ( eg , amnesia , asthenia , depression , malaise , somnolence ) ataxia cerebrovascular ischemia confusion paresthesia twitching convulsion cerebrovascular accident emotional lability hypertonia meningitis myasthenia subarachnoid hemorrhage < 1 % : coma dream abnormalities drowsiness hallucinations RESPIRATORY SYSTEM rhinitis asthma epistaxis bronchitis dyspnea hyperventilation laryngitis pulmonary embolism pulmonary infarct < 1 % : pneumonia respiratory depression SKIN AND APPENDAGES rash angioedema eczema exfoliative dermatitis photosensitivity pruritus toxic epidermal necrolysis urticaria alopecia dry skin herpes simplex / zoster nail disorder sweating < 1 % : erythema multiforme Stevens Johnson syndrome SPECIAL SENSES changes in vision dizziness / vertigo tinnitus conjunctivitis parosmia changes in taste corneal opacity ear disease glaucoma retinal hemorrhage retrobulbar neuritis transient hearing loss > 1 % : pruritus < 1 % : hearing impairment UROGENITAL SYSTEM signs and symptoms suggesting urinary tract infection hematuria interstitial nephritis renal failure menstrual disturbances prostate disease vaginal and uterine hemorrhage vulvovaginitis > 1 % : abnormal renal function < 1 % : dysuria oliguria polyuria proteinuria OVERDOSAGE Symptoms following acute overdoses with nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs are usually limited to lethargy , drowsiness , nausea , vomiting , and epigastric pain , which are generally reversible with supportive care .
Gastrointestinal bleeding can occur .
Hypertension , acute renal failure , respiratory depression and coma may occur , but are rare .
Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported with therapeutic ingestion of nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs , and may occur following an overdose .
Patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care following overdose with a nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drug .
There are no specific antidotes .
Emesis and / or activated charcoal ( 60 to 100 g in adults , 1 to 2 g / kg in children ) and / or osmotic cathartic may be indicated in patients seen within 4 hours of ingestion with symptoms , or following a large overdose ( 5 to 10 times the usual dose ) .
Forced diuresis , alkalization of urine , hemodialysis , or hemoperfusion may not be useful due to high protein binding .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Carefully consider the potential benefits and risks of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP and other treatment options before deciding to use Flurbiprofen tablet , USP .
Use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration consistent with individual patient treatment goals ( see WARNINGS ) .
After observing the response to initial therapy with Flurbiprofen tablet , USP , the dose and frequency should be adjusted to suit an individual patient ' s needs .
For relief of the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis , the recommended starting dose of Flurbiprofen tablet , USP is 200 to 300 mg per day , divided for administration two , three , or four times a day .
The largest recommended single dose in a multiple - dose daily regimen is 100 mg .
HOW SUPPLIED Flurbiprofen Tablets 50 mg Rounded convex , beige , debossed “ 164 ” on one side .
Bottles of 100 NDC 57664 - 164 - 08 Bottles of 2000 NDC 57664 - 164 - 20 Flurbiprofen Tablets 100 mg Rounded convex , beige , debossed “ 165 ” on one side .
Bottles of 100 NDC 57664 - 165 - 08 Bottles of 500 NDC 57664 - 165 - 13 Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container .
CARACO PHARMACEUTICAL LABORATORIES , LTD .
DETROIT , MI 48202 Stock No . 5104T03 SUPPLEMENTAL PATIENT MATERIAL Medication Guide for Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ( See the end of this Medication Guide for a list of prescription NSAID medicines . )
What is the most important information I should know about medicines called Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines may increase the chance of a heart attack or stroke that can lead to death .
This chance increases : • with longer use of NSAID medicines • in people who have heart disease NSAID medicines should never be used right before or after a heart surgery called a “ coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) . ”
NSAID medicines can cause ulcers and bleeding in the stomach and intestines at any time during treatment .
Ulcers and bleeding : • can happen without warning symptoms • may cause death The chance of a person getting an ulcer or bleeding increases with : • taking medicines called “ corticosteroids ” and “ anticoagulants . ”
• longer use • smoking • drinking alcohol • older age • having poor health NSAID medicines should only be used : • exactly as prescribed • at the lowest dose possible for your treatment • for the shortest time needed What are Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
NSAID medicines are used to treat pain and redness , swelling , and heat ( inflammation ) from medical conditions such as : • different types of arthritis • menstrual cramps and other types of short - term pain Who should not take a Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drug ( NSAID ) ?
Do not take an NSAID medicine : • if you had an asthma attack , hives , or other allergic reaction with aspirin or any other NSAID medicine • for pain right before or after heart bypass surgery Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
• about all of the medicines you take .
NSAIDs and some other medicines can interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Keep a list of your medicines to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
• if you are pregnant .
NSAID medicines should not be used by pregnant women late in their pregnancy .
• if you are breastfeeding .
Talk to your doctor .
What are the possible side effects of Non - Steroidal Anti - inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) ?
Serious side effects include : • heart attack • stroke • high blood pressure • heart failure from body swelling ( fluid retention ) • kidney problems including kidney failure • bleeding and ulcers in the stomach and intestine • low red blood cells ( anemia ) • life - threatening skin reactions • life - threatening allergic reactions • liver problems including liver failure • asthma attacks in people who have asthma Other side effects include : • stomach pain • constipation • diarrhea • gas • heartburn • nausea • vomiting • dizziness Get emergency help right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • shortness of breath or trouble breathing • slurred speech • chest pain • swelling of the face or throat • weakness in one part or side of your body Stop your NSAID medicine and call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of the following symptoms : • nausea • more tired or weaker than usual • itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • stomach pain • flu - like symptoms • vomit blood • there is blood in your bowel movement or it is black and sticky like tar • unusual weight gain • skin rash or blisters with fever • swelling of the arms and legs , hands and feet These are not all the side effects with NSAID medicines .
Talk to your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information about NSAID medicines .
Other information about Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) • Aspirin is an NSAID medicine but it does not increase the chance of a heart attack .
Aspirin can cause bleeding in the brain , stomach , and intestines .
Aspirin can also cause ulcers in the stomach and intestines .
• Some of these NSAID medicines are sold in lower doses without a prescription ( over - the - counter ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before using over - the - counter NSAIDs for more than 10 days .
NSAID medicines that need a prescription Generic Name Product Trademark ( s ) Celecoxib Celebrex ® Diclofenac Cataflam ® , Voltaren ® , Arthrotec ™ ( combined with misoprostol ) Diflunisal Dolobid ® Etodolac Lodine ® , Lodine ® XL Fenoprofen Nalfon ® , Nalfon ® 200 Flurbiprofen Ansaid ® Ibuprofen Motrin ® , Tab - Profen ® , Vicoprofen * ® ( combined with hydrocodone ) , Combunox ™ ( combined with oxycodone ) Indomethacin Indocin ® , Indocin ® SR , Indo - Lemmon ™ , Indomethegan ™ Ketoprofen Oruvail ® Ketorolac Toradol ® Mefenamic Acid Ponstel ® Meloxicam Mobic ® Nabumetone Relafen ® Naproxen Naprosyn ® , Anaprox ® , Anaprox ® DS , EC - Naproxyn ™ , Naprelan , Naprapac ® ( copackaged with lansoprazole ) Oxaproxin Daypro ® Piroxicam Feldene ® Sulindac Clinoril ® Tolmetin Tolectin ® , Tolectin DS ® , Tolectin ® 600 * Vicoprofen contains the same dose of ibuprofen as over - the - counter ( OTC ) NSAIDs , and is usually used for less than 10 days to treat pain .
The OTC label warns that long term continuous use may increase the risk of heart attack or stroke .
All registered trademarks in this document are the property of their respective owners .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
