1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rivastigmine transdermal system is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor indicated for treatment of : • Mild , moderate , and severe dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type ( AD ) ( 1 . 1 ) • Mild - to - moderate dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) ( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Alzheimer ’ s Disease Rivastigmine transdermal system is indicated for the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type ( AD ) .
Efficacy has been demonstrated in patients with mild , moderate , and severe Alzheimer ' s disease .
1 . 2 Parkinson ’ s Disease Dementia Rivastigmine transdermal system is indicated for the treatment of mild - to - moderate dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease ( PDD ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Apply transdermal system on intact skin for a 24 - hour period ; replace with a new patch every 24 hours .
( 2 . 1 , 2 . 4 ) • Initial Dose : Initiate treatment with 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system .
( 2 . 1 ) • Dose Titration ( 2 . 1 ) : After a minimum of 4 weeks , if tolerated , increase dose to 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , which is the minimum effective dose .
Following a minimum additional 4 weeks , may increase dosage to maximum dosage of 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours .
• Mild - to - Moderate Alzheimer ' s Disease and Parkinson ' s Disease Dementia : Rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours or 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • Severe Alzheimer ' s Disease : Rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours once daily .
( 2 . 1 ) • For treatment interruption longer than 3 days , retitrate dosage starting at 4 . 6 mg per 24 hours .
( 2 . 1 ) • Consider dose adjustments in patients with ( 2 . 2 ) : ○ Mild - to - moderate hepatic impairment ( 8 . 6 ) ○ Low ( less than 50 kg ) body weight ( 8 . 7 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dosing Initial Dose Initiate treatment with one 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system applied to the skin once daily [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Dose Titration Increase the dose only after a minimum of 4 weeks at the previous dose , and only if the previous dose has been tolerated .
For mild - to - moderate AD and PDD patients , continue the effective dose of 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours for as long as therapeutic benefit persists .
Patients can then be increased to the maximum effective dose of 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours dose .
For patients with severe AD , 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours is the effective dose .
Doses higher than 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours confer no appreciable additional benefit , and are associated with an increase in the incidence of adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Mild - to - Moderate Alzheimer ' s Disease and Mild - to - Moderate Parkinson ' s Disease Dementia The effective dosage of rivastigmine transdermal system is 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours or 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours administered once per day ; replace with a new transdermal system every 24 hours .
Severe Alzheimer ' s Disease The effective dosage of rivastigmine transdermal system in patients with severe Alzheimer ' s disease is 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours administered once per day ; replace with a new transdermal system every 24 hours .
Interruption of Treatment If dosing is interrupted for 3 days or fewer , restart treatment with the same or lower strength rivastigmine transdermal system .
If dosing is interrupted for more than 3 days , restart treatment with the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system and titrate as described above .
2 . 2 Dosing in Specific Populations Dosing Modifications in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Consider using the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system as both the initial and maintenance dose in patients with mild ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) to moderate ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Dosing Modifications in Patients with Low Body Weight Carefully titrate and monitor patients with low body weight ( less than 50 kg ) for toxicities ( e . g . , excessive nausea , vomiting ) , and consider reducing the maintenance dose to the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system if such toxicities develop .
2 . 3 Switching to Rivastigmine Transdermal System from Rivastigmine Capsules or Rivastigmine Oral Solution Patients treated with rivastigmine capsules or oral solution may be switched to rivastigmine transdermal system as follows : • A patient who is on a total daily dose of less than 6 mg of oral rivastigmine can be switched to the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system .
• A patient who is on a total daily dose of 6 mg to 12 mg of oral rivastigmine can be switched to the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system .
Instruct patients or caregivers to apply the first transdermal system on the day following the last oral dose .
2 . 4 Important Administration Instructions Rivastigmine transdermal system is for transdermal use on intact skin .
a ) Do not use the transdermal system if the pouch seal is broken or the transdermal system is cut , damaged , or changed in any way .
b ) Apply the rivastigmine transdermal system once a day .
• Press down firmly for 30 seconds until the edges stick well when applying to clean , dry , hairless , intact healthy skin in a place that will not be rubbed against by tight clothing .
• Use the upper or lower back as the site of application because the transdermal system is less likely to be removed by the patient .
If sites on the back are not accessible , apply the transdermal system to the upper arm or chest .
• Do not apply to a skin area where cream , lotion , or powder has recently been applied .
c ) Do not apply to skin that is red , irritated , or cut .
d ) Replace the rivastigmine transdermal system with a new transdermal system every 24 hours .
Instruct patients to only wear 1 transdermal system at a time ( remove the previous day ' s transdermal system before applying a new transdermal system ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
If a transdermal system falls off or if a dose is missed , apply a new transdermal system immediately and then replace this transdermal system the following day at the usual application time .
e ) Change the site of transdermal system application daily to minimize potential irritation , although a new transdermal system can be applied to the same general anatomic site ( e . g . , another spot on the upper back ) on consecutive days .
Do not apply a new transdermal system to the same location for at least 14 days .
f ) May wear the transdermal system during bathing and in hot weather .
But avoid long exposure to external heat sources ( excessive sunlight , saunas , solariums ) .
g ) Place used transdermal systems in the previously saved pouch and discard in the trash , away from pets or children .
h ) Wash hands with soap and water after removing the transdermal system .
In case of contact with eyes or if the eyes become red after handling the transdermal system , rinse immediately with plenty of water , and seek medical advice if symptoms do not resolve .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Rivastigmine Transdermal System : 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours or 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours or 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours ( 3 ) Rivastigmine transdermal system is available in 3 strengths .
Each transdermal system has a beige backing layer labeled as either : • Rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours , " Rivastigmine Transdermal System 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours " • Rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , " Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours " • Rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours , " Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours " 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Known hypersensitivity to rivastigmine , other carbamate derivatives , or other components of the formulation .
( 4 ) • History of application site reactions with rivastigmine transdermal system suggestive of allergic contact dermatitis ( 4 , 6 . 2 ) Rivastigmine transdermal system is contraindicated in patients with : • known hypersensitivity to rivastigmine , other carbamate derivatives , or other components of the formulation [ see Description ( 11 ) ] .
• previous history of application site reactions with rivastigmine transdermal system suggestive of allergic contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Isolated cases of generalized skin reactions have been described in postmarketing experience [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Hospitalization and , rarely , death have been reported due to application of multiple transdermal systems at same time .
Ensure patients or caregivers receive instruction on proper dosing and administration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions : May include significant nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , anorexia / decreased appetite , and weight loss , and may necessitate treatment interruption .
Dehydration may result from prolonged vomiting or diarrhea and can be associated with serious outcomes .
( 5 . 2 ) • Application site reactions may occur with the transdermal system form of rivastigmine .
Discontinue treatment if application site reactions spread beyond the transdermal system size , if there is evidence of a more intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) , and if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal .
( 5 . 3 ) 5 . 1 Medication Errors Resulting in Overdose Medication errors with rivastigmine transdermal system have resulted in serious adverse reactions ; some cases have required hospitalization , and rarely , led to death .
The majority of medication errors have involved not removing the old transdermal system when putting on a new one and the use of multiple transdermal systems at one time .
Instruct patients and their caregivers on important administration instructions for rivastigmine transdermal system .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Rivastigmine transdermal system can cause gastrointestinal adverse reactions , including significant nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , anorexia / decreased appetite , and weight loss .
Dehydration may result from prolonged vomiting or diarrhea and can be associated with serious outcomes .
The incidence and severity of these reactions are dose - related [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
For this reason , initiate treatment with rivastigmine transdermal system at a dose of 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours and titrate to a dose of 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours and then to a dose of 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours , if appropriate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
If treatment is interrupted for more than 3 days because of intolerance , reinitiate rivastigmine transdermal system with the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours dose to reduce the possibility of severe vomiting and its potentially serious sequelae .
A postmarketing report described a case of severe vomiting with esophageal rupture following inappropriate reinitiation of treatment of an oral formulation of rivastigmine without retitration after 8 weeks of treatment interruption .
Inform caregivers to monitor for gastrointestinal adverse reactions and to inform the physician if they occur .
It is critical to inform caregivers that if therapy has been interrupted for more than 3 days because of intolerance , the next dose should not be administered without contacting the physician regarding proper retitration .
5 . 3 Skin Reactions Skin application site reactions may occur with rivastigmine transdermal system .
These reactions are not in themselves an indication of sensitization .
However , use of rivastigmine transdermal system may lead to allergic contact dermatitis .
Allergic contact dermatitis should be suspected if application site reactions spread beyond the transdermal system size , if there is evidence of a more intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) and if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal .
In these cases , treatment should be discontinued [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In patients who develop application site reactions to rivastigmine transdermal system , suggestive of allergic contact dermatitis and who still require rivastigmine , treatment should be switched to oral rivastigmine only after negative allergy testing and under close medical supervision .
It is possible that some patients sensitized to rivastigmine by exposure to rivastigmine transdermal system may not be able to take rivastigmine in any form .
There have been isolated postmarketing reports of patients experiencing disseminated allergic dermatitis when administered rivastigmine irrespective of the route of administration ( oral or transdermal ) .
In these cases , treatment should be discontinued [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Patients and caregivers should be instructed accordingly .
5 . 4 Other Adverse Reactions from Increased Cholinergic Activity Neurologic Effects Extrapyramidal Symptoms : Cholinomimetics , including rivastigmine , may exacerbate or induce extrapyramidal symptoms .
Worsening of parkinsonian symptoms , particularly tremor , has been observed in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease who were treated with rivastigmine capsules .
Seizures : Drugs that increase cholinergic activity are believed to have some potential for causing seizures .
However , seizure activity also may be a manifestation of Alzheimer ' s disease .
Peptic Ulcers / Gastrointestinal Bleeding Cholinesterase inhibitors , including rivastigmine , may increase gastric acid secretion due to increased cholinergic activity .
Monitor patients using rivastigmine transdermal system for symptoms of active or occult gastrointestinal bleeding , especially those at increased risk for developing ulcers , e . g . , those with a history of ulcer disease or those receiving concurrent nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) .
Clinical studies of rivastigmine have shown no significant increase , relative to placebo , in the incidence of either peptic ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding .
Use with Anesthesia Rivastigmine , as a cholinesterase inhibitor , is likely to exaggerate succinylcholine - type muscle relaxation during anesthesia .
Cardiac Conduction Effects Because rivastigmine increases cholinergic activity , use of the rivastigmine transdermal system may have vagotonic effects on heart rate ( e . g . , bradycardia ) .
The potential for this action may be particularly important in patients with sick sinus syndrome or other supraventricular cardiac conduction conditions .
In clinical trials , rivastigmine was not associated with any increased incidence of cardiovascular adverse events , heart rate or blood pressure changes , or electrocardiogram ( ECG ) abnormalities .
Genitourinary Effects Although not observed in clinical trials of rivastigmine , drugs that increase cholinergic activity may cause urinary obstruction .
Pulmonary Effects Drugs that increase cholinergic activity , including rivastigmine transdermal system should be used with care in patients with a history of asthma or obstructive pulmonary disease .
5 . 5 Impairment in Driving or Use of Machinery Dementia may cause gradual impairment of driving performance or compromise the ability to use machinery .
The administration of rivastigmine may also result in adverse reactions that are detrimental to these functions .
During treatment with rivastigmine transdermal system , routinely evaluate the patient ' s ability to continue driving or operating machinery .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions ( less than 5 % and higher than with placebo ) : Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc . at 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
The following adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in the labeling : • Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• Skin Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
• Other Adverse Reactions from Increased Cholinergic Activity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Rivastigmine transdermal system has been administered to 4516 patients with Alzheimer ' s disease during clinical trials worldwide .
Of these , 3005 patients have been treated for at least 26 weeks , 1771 patients have been treated for at least 52 weeks , 974 patients have been treated for at least 78 weeks , and 24 patients have been treated for at least 104 weeks .
Mild - to - Moderate Alzheimer ' s Disease 24 - Week International Placebo - Controlled Trial ( Study 1 ) Most Common Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions in patients administered rivastigmine transdermal system in Study 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system arm and at a frequency at higher than in the placebo group , were nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
These reactions were dose - related , with each being more common in patients using the unapproved 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system than in those using the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system .
Discontinuation Rates In Study 1 , which randomized a total of 1195 patients , the proportions of patients in the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine capsules 6 mg twice daily , and placebo groups who discontinued treatment due to adverse events were 10 % , 8 % and 5 % , respectively .
The most common adverse reactions in the rivastigmine transdermal system - treated groups that led to treatment discontinuation in this study were nausea and vomiting .
The proportions of patients who discontinued treatment due to nausea were 0 . 7 % , 1 . 7 % , and 1 . 3 % in the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine capsules 6 mg twice daily , and placebo groups , respectively .
The proportions of patients who discontinued treatment due to vomiting were 0 % , 2 . 0 % , and 0 . 3 % in the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine capsules 6 mg twice daily , and placebo groups , respectively .
Adverse Reactions Observed at an Incidence of Greater Than or Equal to 2 % Table 1 lists adverse reactions seen at an incidence of greater than or equal to 2 % in either rivastigmine transdermal system - treated group in Study 1 and for which the rate of occurrence was greater for patients treated with that dose of rivastigmine transdermal system than for those treated with placebo .
The unapproved 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system arm is included to demonstrate the increased rates of gastrointestinal adverse reactions over those seen with the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system .
Table 1 Proportion of Adverse Reactions ( ARs ) Observed with a Frequency of Greater Than or Equal to 2 % and Occurring at a Rate Greater Than Placebo in Study 1 Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Capsule 6 mg twice daily Placebo Total Patients Studied 291 303 294 302 Total Percentage of Patients with ARs ( % ) 51 66 63 46 Nausea 7 21 23 5 Vomiting * 6 19 17 3 Diarrhea 6 10 5 3 Depression 4 4 4 1 Headache 3 4 6 2 Anxiety 3 3 2 1 Anorexia / Decreased Appetite 3 9 9 2 Weight Decreased ** 3 8 5 1 Dizziness 2 7 7 2 Abdominal Pain 2 4 1 1 Urinary Tract Infection 2 2 1 1 Asthenia 2 3 6 1 Fatigue 2 2 1 1 Insomnia 1 4 2 2 Abdominal Pain Upper 1 3 2 2 Vertigo 0 2 1 1 * Vomiting was severe in 0 % of patients who received rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , 1 % of patients who received rivastigmine transdermal system 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours , 1 % of patients who received the rivastigmine capsule at doses up to 6 mg twice daily , and 0 % of those who received placebo .
** Weight Decreased as presented in Table 1 is based upon clinical observations and / or adverse events reported by patients or caregivers .
Body weight was also monitored at prespecified time points throughout the course of the clinical study .
The proportion of patients who had weight loss equal to or greater than 7 % of their baseline weight was 8 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , 12 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours , 11 % of patients who received the rivastigmine capsule at doses up to 6 mg twice daily and 6 % of those who received placebo .
It is not clear how much of the weight loss was associated with anorexia , nausea , vomiting , and the diarrhea associated with the drug .
48 - Week International Active Comparator - Controlled Trial ( Study 2 ) Most Common Adverse Reactions In Study 2 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] of the commonly observed adverse reactions ( greater than or equal to 3 % in any treatment group ) , the most frequent event in the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours group was nausea , followed by vomiting , fall , weight decreased , application site erythema , decreased appetite , diarrhea and urinary tract infection ( Table 3 ) .
The percentage of patients with these events was higher in the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours group than in the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours group .
Patients with nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and decreased appetite experienced these reactions more often during the first 4 weeks of the double - blind treatment phase .
These reactions decreased over time in each treatment group .
Weight decreased was reported to have increased over time in each treatment group .
Discontinuation Rates Table 2 displays the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation during the 48 - week double - blind treatment phase in Study 2 .
Table 2 Proportion of Most Common ARs ( Greater Than 1 % at any dose ) Leading to Discontinuation During 48 - week Double - Blind ( DB ) Treatment Phase in Study 2 Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Total Total Patients Studied 280 283 563 Total Percentage of Patients with ARs Leading to Discontinuation ( % ) 9 . 6 12 . 7 11 . 2 Vomiting 1 . 4 0 . 4 0 . 9 Application site pruritus 1 . 1 1 . 1 1 . 1 Aggression 0 . 4 1 . 1 0 . 7 Most Common Adverse Reactions Greater Than or Equal to 3 % Other adverse reactions of interest which occurred less frequently , but which were observed in a markedly higher percentage of patients in the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours group than in the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours group in Study 2 , included dizziness and upper abdominal pain .
The percentage of patients with these reactions decreased over time in each treatment group ( Table 3 ) .
The adverse reaction severity profile was generally similar for both the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours and 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours groups .
Table 3 Proportion of ARs Over Time in the 48 - week DB - Treatment Phase ( at Least 3 % in any Treatment Group ) in Study 2 Cumulative Week 0 to 48 ( DB Phase ) Week 0 to 24 ( DB Phase ) Week > 24 to 48 ( DB Phase ) Preferred Term Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Total Patients Studied 280 283 280 283 241 246 Total Percentage of Patients with ARs ( % ) 75 68 65 55 42 40 Nausea 12 5 10 4 4 2 Vomiting 10 5 9 3 3 2 Fall 8 6 4 4 4 3 Weight decreased * 7 3 3 1 5 2 Application site erythema 6 6 6 5 1 2 Decreased appetite 6 3 5 2 2 < 1 Diarrhea 6 5 5 4 2 < 1 Urinary tract infection 5 4 3 3 3 2 Agitation 5 5 4 3 1 2 Depression 5 5 3 3 3 2 Dizziness 4 1 3 < 1 2 < 1 Application site pruritus 4 4 4 3 < 1 1 Headache 4 4 4 4 < 1 < 1 Insomnia 4 3 2 1 3 2 Abdominal pain upper 4 1 3 1 1 < 1 Anxiety 4 3 2 2 2 1 Hypertension 3 3 3 2 1 1 Urinary incontinence 3 2 2 1 1 < 1 Psychomotor hyperactivity 3 3 2 3 2 1 Aggression 2 3 1 3 1 1 * Decreased Weight as presented in Table 3 is based upon clinical observations and / or adverse events reported by patients or caregivers .
Body weight was monitored as a vital sign at pre - specified time points throughout the course of the clinical study .
The proportion of patients who had weight loss equal to or greater than 7 % of their baseline weight was 15 . 2 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours and 18 . 6 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours during the 48 - week double - blind treatment period Severe Alzheimer ' s Disease 24 - Week US Controlled Trial ( Study 3 ) Most Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions The most common adverse reactions in patients administered rivastigmine transdermal system in the controlled clinical trial , defined as those occurring at a frequency of at least 5 % in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system arm and at a frequency higher than in the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system were application site erythema , fall , insomnia , vomiting , diarrhea , weight decreased , and nausea ( Table 4 ) .
Patients in the lower dose group reported more events of agitation , urinary tract infection , and hallucinations than patients in the higher dose group .
Discontinuation Rates In Study 3 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] , the proportions of patients in the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours ( n = 355 ) and rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours ( n = 359 ) , who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions were 21 % and 14 % , respectively .
The most frequent adverse reaction leading to discontinuation in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours treatment group versus the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours treatment group was agitation ( 2 . 8 % versus 2 . 2 % ) , followed by vomiting ( 2 . 5 % and 1 . 1 % ) , nausea ( 1 . 7 % and 1 . 1 % ) , decreased appetite ( 1 . 7 % and 0 % ) , aggression ( 1 . 1 % and 0 . 3 % ) , fall ( 1 . 1 % and 0 . 3 % ) and syncope ( 1 . 1 % and 0 . 3 % ) .
Otherwise , all AEs leading to discontinuation were reported in less than 1 % of patients .
Most Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions Greater than or Equal to 5 % Other adverse reactions of interest , which were observed in a higher percentage of patients in the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours group than in the rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours group , included application site erythema , fall , insomnia , vomiting , diarrhea , weight decreased , and nausea ( Table 4 ) .
Overall , the majority of patients in this study experienced adverse reactions that were mild ( 30 . 7 % ) or moderate ( 32 . 1 % ) in severity .
Slightly more patients in the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours transdermal system group reported mild events than in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours transdermal system group , while the numbers of patients reporting moderate events were comparable between groups .
Severe adverse reactions were reported at a slightly higher percentage at the higher dose ( 12 . 4 % ) than at the lower dose ( 10 % ) treatment groups .
With the exception of severe adverse reactions of agitation ( 13 . 3 mg : 1 . 1 % ; 4 . 6 mg : 1 . 4 % ) , fall ( 13 . 3 mg : 1 . 1 % ) and urinary tract infection ( 4 . 6 mg : 1 . 1 % ) , all adverse reactions reported as severe occurred in less than 1 % of patients in either treatment group .
Table 4 Proportion of ARs in the 24 - week DB - Treatment Phase ( at Least 5 % in any Treatment Group ) in Study 3 Preferred term Rivastigmine Transdermal System 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Rivastigmine Transdermal System 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours Total number of patients studied 355 359 Total percentage of patients with ARs ( % ) 75 73 Application site erythema 13 12 Agitation 12 14 Urinary tract infection 8 10 Fall 8 6 Insomnia 7 4 Vomiting 7 3 Diarrhea 7 5 Weight decreased * 7 3 Nausea 6 3 Depression 5 4 Decreased appetite 5 1 Anxiety 5 5 Hallucination 2 5 * Weight Decreased as presented in Table 4 is based upon clinical observations and / or adverse events reported by patients or caregivers .
Body weight was monitored as a vital sign at prespecified time points throughout the course of the clinical study .
The proportion of patients who had weight loss equal to or greater than 7 % of their baseline weight was 11 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours and 14 . 1 % of those treated with rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours during the 24 - week double - blind treatment .
Application Site Reactions Application site skin reactions leading to discontinuation were observed in less than or equal to 2 . 3 % of rivastigmine transdermal system patients .
This number was 4 . 9 % and 8 . 4 % in the Chinese population and Japanese population , respectively .
Cases of skin irritation were captured separately on an investigator - rated skin irritation scale .
Skin irritation , when observed , was mostly slight or mild in severity and was rated as severe in less than or equal to 2 . 2 % of rivastigmine transdermal system patients in a double - blind controlled study and in less than or equal to 3 . 7 % of rivastigmine transdermal system patients in a double - blind controlled study in Japanese patients .
Parkinson ' s Disease Dementia 76 - week International Open - Label Trial ( Study 4 ) Rivastigmine transdermal system has been administered to 288 patients with mild - to - moderate Parkinson ' s Disease Dementia in a single , 76 - week , open - label , active - comparator safety study .
Of these , 256 have been treated for at least 12 weeks , 232 for at least 24 weeks , and 196 for at least 52 weeks .
Treatment with rivastigmine transdermal system was initiated at 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours and if tolerated the dose was increased after 4 weeks to 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours .
Rivastigmine capsule ( target maintenance dose of 12 mg / day ) served as the active comparator and was administered to 294 patients .
Adverse reactions are presented in Table 5 .
Table 5 Proportion of ARs Reported at a Rate Greater Than or Equal to 2 % During the Initial 24 - Week Period in Study 4 Adverse Drug Reactions Rivastigmine Transdermal System Total patients studied 288 Percentage ( % ) Psychiatric Disorders Insomnia 6 Depression 6 Anxiety 5 Agitation 3 Nervous System Disorders Tremor 7 Dizziness 6 Somnolence 4 Hypokinesia 4 Bradykinesia 4 Cogwheel rigidity 3 Dyskinesia 3 Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain 2 Vascular Disorders Hypertension 3 General Disorders and Administration - site Conditions Fall 12 Application site erythema 11 Application site irritation , pruritus , rash 3 , 5 , 2 Fatigue 4 Asthenia 2 Gait disturbance 4 Additional adverse reactions observed during the 76 - week prospective , open - label study in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease treated with rivastigmine transdermal system : Frequent ( those occurring in at least 1 / 100 patients ) : dehydration , weight decreased , aggression , hallucination visual .
In patients with dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease , the following adverse drug reactions have only been observed in clinical trials with rivastigmine capsules : Frequent : nausea , vomiting , decreased appetite , restlessness , worsening of Parkinson ' s disease , bradycardia , diarrhea , dyspepsia , salivary hypersecretion , sweating increased ; Infrequent ( those occurring between 1 / 100 to 1 / 1000 patients ) : dystonia , atrial fibrillation , atrioventricular block .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rivastigmine capsules , rivastigmine oral solution , or rivastigmine transdermal system .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiac Disorders : Tachycardia .
Hepatobiliary Disorders : Abnormal liver function tests , hepatitis .
Nervous System Disorders : Parkinson ' s disease ( worsening ) , seizure , tremor .
Psychiatric Disorders : nightmares .
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : Allergic dermatitis , application site hypersensitivity , blister , disseminated allergic dermatitis , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , urticaria .
Vascular Disorders : Hypertension .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Concomitant use with metoclopramide , beta - blockers , or cholinomimetics and anticholinergic medications is not recommended .
( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Metoclopramide Due to the risk of additive extra - pyramidal adverse reactions , the concomitant use of metoclopramide and rivastigmine transdermal system is not recommended .
7 . 2 Cholinomimetic and Anticholinergic Medications Rivastigmine transdermal system may increase the cholinergic effects of other cholinomimetic medications and may also interfere with the activity of anticholinergic medications ( e . g . , oxybutynin , tolterodine ) .
Concomitant use of rivastigmine transdermal system with medications having these pharmacologic effects is not recommended unless deemed clinically necessary [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 Beta - blockers Additive bradycardic effects resulting in syncope may occur when rivastigmine is used concomitantly with beta - blockers , especially cardioselective beta - blockers ( including atenolol ) .
Concomitant use is not recommended when signs of bradycardia including syncope are present .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risks associated with the use of rivastigmine in pregnant women .
In animals , no adverse effects on embryo - fetal development were observed at oral doses 2 - 4 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( see Data ) .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % - 4 % and 15 % - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Oral administration of rivastigmine to pregnant rats and rabbits throughout organogenesis produced no adverse effects on embryo - fetal development up to the highest dose tested ( 2 . 3 mg / kg / day ) , which is 2 and 4 times , respectively , the MRHD of 12 mg per day on a body surface area ( mg / m2 ) basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of rivastigmine in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects of rivastigmine on milk production .
Rivastigmine and its metabolites are excreted in rat milk following oral administration of rivastigmine ; levels of rivastigmine plus metabolites in rat milk are approximately 2 times that in maternal plasma .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for rivastigmine and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from rivastigmine or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
The use of rivastigmine transdermal system in pediatric patients ( below 18 years of age ) is not recommended .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Of the total number of patients in clinical studies of rivastigmine transdermal system , 88 % were 65 years and over , while 55 % were 75 years .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Increased exposure to rivastigmine was observed in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment with oral rivastigmine .
Patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment may be able to only tolerate lower doses [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No data are available on the use of rivastigmine in patients with severe hepatic impairment .
8 . 7 Low or High Body Weight Because rivastigmine blood levels vary with weight , careful titration and monitoring should be performed in patients with low or high body weights [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdose with rivastigmine transdermal system has been reported in the postmarketing setting [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Overdoses have occurred from application of more than one transdermal system at one time and not removing the previous day ' s transdermal system before applying a new transdermal system .
The symptoms reported in these overdose cases are similar to those seen in cases of overdose associated with rivastigmine oral formulations .
Because strategies for the management of overdose are continually evolving , it is advisable to contact a Poison Control Center to determine the latest recommendations for the management of an overdose of any drug .
As rivastigmine has a plasma half - life of about 3 . 4 hours after transdermal system administration and a duration of acetylcholinesterase inhibition of about 9 hours , it is recommended that in cases of asymptomatic overdose the transdermal system should be immediately removed and no further transdermal system should be applied for the next 24 hours .
As in any case of overdose , general supportive measures should be utilized .
Overdosage with cholinesterase inhibitors can result in cholinergic crisis characterized by severe nausea , vomiting , salivation , sweating , bradycardia , hypotension , respiratory depression , and convulsions .
Increasing muscle weakness is a possibility and may result in death if respiratory muscles are involved .
Atypical responses in blood pressure and heart rate have been reported with other drugs that increase cholinergic activity when coadministered with quaternary anticholinergics such as glycopyrrolate .
Additional symptoms associated with rivastigmine overdose are diarrhea , abdominal pain , dizziness , tremor , headache , somnolence , confusional state , hyperhidrosis , hypertension , hallucinations and malaise .
Due to the short plasma elimination half - life of rivastigmine after transdermal system administration , dialysis ( hemodialysis , peritoneal dialysis , or hemofiltration ) would not be clinically indicated in the event of an overdose .
In overdose accompanied by severe nausea and vomiting , the use of antiemetics should be considered .
A fatal outcome has rarely been reported with rivastigmine overdose .
11 DESCRIPTION Rivastigmine transdermal system contains rivastigmine USP , a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor known chemically as ( S ) - 3 - [ 1 - ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ] phenyl ethylmethylcarbamate .
It has an empirical formula of C14H22N2O2 as the base and a molecular weight of 250 . 34 g / mol ( as the base ) .
Rivastigmine is a viscous , clear , and colorless to yellow to very slightly brown liquid that is sparingly soluble in water and very soluble in ethanol , acetonitrile , n - octanol and ethyl acetate .
The distribution coefficient at 37 ° C in n - octanol / phosphate buffer solution pH 7 is 4 . 27 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Rivastigmine transdermal system is for transdermal administration .
The transdermal system is a four - layer laminate containing ( 1 ) a foam backing with adhesive layer , ( 2 ) a polyester film , ( 3 ) an adhesive matrix containing rivastigmine , and ( 4 ) a fluoropolymer coated polyester release liner ( see Figure 1 ) .
The release liner is removed and discarded prior to use .
Figure 1 : Cross Section of the Rivastigmine Transdermal System [ MULTIMEDIA ] Layer 1 : Copolymer foam backing with adhesive layer Layer 2 : Polyester Film Layer 3 : Adhesive Matrix Layer 4 : Fluoropolymer coated Release Liner ( removed at time of use ) The active component of the system is rivastigmine .
The remaining components of the system ( colloidal silicon dioxide , light mineral oil , polyisobutylene adhesive , copolymer foam and polyester film ) are pharmacologically inactive .
Additionally , rivastigmine transdermal system is printed with pharmaceutical grade brown ink which contains acrylic polymers , carbon black , ethoxylated 2 , 4 , 7 , 9 - tetramethyl 5 decyn - 4 , 7 - diol , iron oxide , octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol , polyethylene glycol , polyethylene wax and polytetrafluoroethylene .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Although the precise mechanism of action of rivastigmine is unknown , it is thought to exert its therapeutic effect by enhancing cholinergic function .
This is accomplished by increasing the concentration of acetylcholine through reversible inhibition of its hydrolysis by cholinesterase .
The effect of rivastigmine may lessen as the disease process advances and fewer cholinergic neurons remain functionally intact .
There is no evidence that rivastigmine alters the course of the underlying dementing process .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics After a 6 - mg oral dose of rivastigmine in humans , anticholinesterase activity is present in cerebrospinal fluid for about 10 hours , with a maximum inhibition of about 60 % 5 hours after dosing .
In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that the inhibition of cholinesterase by rivastigmine is not affected by the concomitant administration of memantine , an N - methyl - D - aspartate receptor antagonist .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After the initial application of rivastigmine transdermal system , there is a lag time of 0 . 5 to 1 hour in the absorption of rivastigmine .
Concentrations then rise slowly typically reaching a maximum after 8 hours , although maximum values ( Cmax ) can also occur later ( at 10 to 16 hours ) .
After the peak , plasma concentrations slowly decrease over the remainder of the 24 - hour period of application .
At steady state , trough levels are approximately 60 % to 80 % of peak levels .
Rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours gave exposure approximately the same as that provided by an oral dose of 6 mg twice daily ( i . e . , 12 mg / day ) .
Inter - subject variability in exposure was lower ( 43 % to 49 % ) for the rivastigmine transdermal system formulation as compared with the oral formulations ( 73 % to 103 % ) .
Fluctuation ( between Cmax and Cmin ) is less for rivastigmine transdermal system than for the oral formulation of rivastigmine .
Figure 2 displays rivastigmine plasma concentrations over 24 hours for the 3 available transdermal system strengths .
Figure 2 Rivastigmine Plasma Concentrations Following Dermal 24 - Hour Transdermal System Application [ MULTIMEDIA ] Over a 24 - hour dermal application , approximately 50 % of the drug content of the transdermal system is released from the system .
Exposure area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time zero to infinity ( AUC ∞ ) to rivastigmine ( and metabolite NAP266 - 90 ) was highest when the transdermal system was applied to the upper back , chest , or upper arm .
Two other sites ( abdomen and thigh ) could be used if none of the 3 other sites is available , but the practitioner should be aware that the rivastigmine plasma exposure associated with these sites was approximately 20 % to 30 % lower .
There was no relevant accumulation of rivastigmine or the metabolite NAP226 - 90 in plasma in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease with daily dosing .
The pharmacokinetic profile of rivastigmine transdermal systems was comparable in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease and in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease .
Distribution Rivastigmine is weakly bound to plasma proteins ( approximately 40 % ) over the therapeutic range .
It readily crosses the blood - brain barrier , reaching CSF peak concentrations in 1 . 4 to 2 . 6 hours .
It has an apparent volume of distribution in the range of 1 . 8 to 2 . 7 L / kg .
Metabolism Rivastigmine is extensively metabolized primarily via cholinesterase - mediated hydrolysis to the decarbamylated metabolite NAP226 - 90 .
In vitro , this metabolite shows minimal inhibition of acetylcholinesterase ( less than 10 % ) .
Based on evidence from in vitro and animal studies , the major cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are minimally involved in rivastigmine metabolism .
The metabolite - to - parent AUC ∞ ratio was about 0 . 7 after rivastigmine transdermal system application versus 3 . 5 after oral administration , indicating that much less metabolism occurred after dermal treatment .
Less NAP226 - 90 is formed following transdermal system application , presumably because of the lack of presystemic ( hepatic first pass ) metabolism .
Based on in vitro studies , no unique metabolic routes were detected in human skin .
Elimination Renal excretion of the metabolites is the major route of elimination .
Unchanged rivastigmine is found in trace amounts in the urine .
Following administration of 14 C - rivastigmine , renal elimination was rapid and essentially complete ( greater than 90 % ) within 24 hours .
Less than 1 % of the administered dose is excreted in the feces .
The apparent elimination half - life in plasma is approximately 3 hours after transdermal system removal .
Renal clearance was approximately 2 . 1 to 2 . 8 L / hr .
Age Age had no impact on the exposure to rivastigmine in Alzheimer ' s disease patients treated with rivastigmine transdermal system .
Gender and Race No specific pharmacokinetic study was conducted to investigate the effect of gender and race on the disposition of rivastigmine transdermal system .
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of oral rivastigmine indicated that neither gender ( n = 277 males and 348 females ) nor race ( n = 575 Caucasian , 34 Black , 4 Asian , and 12 Other ) affected clearance of the drug .
Similar results were seen with analyses of pharmacokinetic data obtained after the administration of rivastigmine transdermal system .
Body Weight A relationship between drug exposure at steady state ( rivastigmine and metabolite NAP226 - 90 ) and body weight was observed in Alzheimer ' s dementia patients .
Rivastigmine exposure is higher in subjects with low body weight .
Compared to a patient with a body weight of 65 kg , the rivastigmine steady - state concentrations in a patient with a body weight of 35 kg would be approximately doubled , while for a patient with a body weight of 100 kg the concentrations would be approximately halved [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
Renal Impairment No study was conducted with rivastigmine transdermal system in subjects with renal impairment .
Based on population analysis , creatinine clearance did not show any clear effect on steady state concentrations of rivastigmine or its metabolite .
Hepatic Impairment No pharmacokinetic study was conducted with rivastigmine transdermal system in subjects with hepatic impairment .
Following a single 3 - mg dose , mean oral clearance of rivastigmine was 60 % lower in hepatically impaired patients ( n = 10 , biopsy proven ) than in healthy subjects ( n = 10 ) .
After multiple 6 - mg twice a day oral dosing , the mean clearance of rivastigmine was 65 % lower in mild ( n = 7 , Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) and moderate ( n = 3 , Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) hepatically impaired patients ( biopsy proven , liver cirrhosis ) than in healthy subjects ( n = 10 ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Smoking Following oral rivastigmine administration ( up to 12 mg / day ) with nicotine use , population pharmacokinetic analysis showed increased oral clearance of rivastigmine by 23 % ( n = 75 smokers and 549 nonsmokers ) .
Drug Interaction Studies No specific interaction studies have been conducted with rivastigmine transdermal system .
Information presented below is from studies with oral rivastigmine .
Effect of Rivastigmine on the Metabolism of Other Drugs Rivastigmine is primarily metabolized through hydrolysis by esterases .
Minimal metabolism occurs via the major cytochrome P450 isoenzymes .
Based on in vitro studies , no pharmacokinetic drug interactions with drugs metabolized by the following isoenzyme systems are expected : CYP1A2 , CYP2D6 , CYP3A4 / 5 , CYP2E1 , CYP2C9 , CYP2C8 , CYP2C19 , or CYP2B6 .
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between rivastigmine taken orally and digoxin , warfarin , diazepam , or fluoxetine in studies in healthy volunteers .
The increase in prothrombin time induced by warfarin is not affected by administration of rivastigmine .
Effect of Other Drugs on the Metabolism of Rivastigmine Drugs that induce or inhibit CYP450 metabolism are not expected to alter the metabolism of rivastigmine .
Population pharmacokinetic analysis with a database of 625 patients showed that the pharmacokinetics of rivastigmine taken orally were not influenced by commonly prescribed medications such as antacids ( n = 77 ) , antihypertensives ( n = 72 ) , beta - blockers ( n = 42 ) , calcium channel blockers ( n = 75 ) , antidiabetics ( n = 21 ) , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( n = 79 ) , estrogens ( n = 70 ) , salicylate analgesics ( n = 177 ) , antianginals ( n = 35 ) , and antihistamines ( n = 15 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In oral carcinogenicity studies conducted at doses up to 1 . 1 mg / kg / day in rats and 1 . 6 mg / kg / day in mice , rivastigmine was not carcinogenic .
In a dermal carcinogenicity study conducted at doses up to 0 . 75 mg base / kg / day in mice , rivastigmine was not carcinogenic .
The mean rivastigmine plasma exposure ( AUC ) at this dose was less than that in humans at the maximum recommended human dose ( 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours ) .
Mutagenesis Rivastigmine was clastogenic in in vitro chromosomal aberration assays in mammalian cells in the presence , but not the absence , of metabolic activation .
Rivastigmine was negative in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay , an in vitro HGPRT assay , and in an in vivo mouse micronucleus test .
Impairment of Fertility No fertility or reproduction studies of dermal rivastigmine have been conducted in animals .
Rivastigmine had no effect on fertility or reproductive performance in rats at oral doses up to 1 . 1 mg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of the rivastigmine transdermal system in dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type and dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease was based on the results of 3 controlled trials of rivastigmine transdermal system in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) ( see below ) ; 3 controlled trials of oral rivastigmine in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer ' s type ; and 1 controlled trial of oral rivastigmine in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson ' s disease .
See the prescribing information for oral rivastigmine for details of the four studies of oral rivastigmine .
Mild - to - Moderate Alzheimer ' s Disease International 24 - Week Study of Rivastigmine Transdermal System in Dementia of the Alzheimer ' s Type ( Study 1 ) This study was a randomized double - blind , double dummy clinical investigation in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease [ diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA and DSM - IV criteria , Mini - Mental Status Examination ( MMSE ) score greater than or equal to 10 and less than or equal to 20 ] ( Study 1 ) .
The mean age of patients participating in this trial was 74 years with a range of 50 to 90 years .
Approximately 67 % of patients were women , and 33 % were men .
The racial distribution was Caucasian 75 % , Black 1 % , Asian 9 % , and other races 15 % .
The effectiveness of the rivastigmine transdermal system was evaluated in Study 1 using a dual outcome assessment strategy , evaluating for changes in both cognitive performance and overall clinical effect .
The ability of the rivastigmine transdermal system to improve cognitive performance was assessed with the cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer ' s Disease Assessment Scale ( ADASCog ) , a multi - item instrument that has been extensively validated in longitudinal cohorts of Alzheimer ' s disease patients .
The ADAS - Cog examines selected aspects of cognitive performance including elements of memory , orientation , attention , reasoning , language , and praxis .
The ADAS - Cog scoring range is from 0 to70 , with higher scores indicating greater cognitive impairment .
Elderly normal adults may score as low as 0 or 1 , but it is not unusual for non - demented adults to score slightly higher .
The ability of the rivastigmine transdermal system to produce an overall clinical effect was assessed using the Alzheimer ' s - Disease Cooperative Study - Clinical Global Impression of Change ( ADCS - CGIC ) .
The ADCS - CGIC is a more standardized form of the Clinician ' s Interview - Based Impression of Change - Plus ( CIBIC - Plus ) and is also scored as a 7 - point categorical rating ; scores range from 1 , indicating " markedly improved , " to 4 , indicating " no change , " to 7 , indicating " marked worsening . "
In Study 1 , 1195 patients were randomized to 1 of the following 4 treatments : rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine transdermal system 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine capsules in a dose of 6 mg twice daily , or placebo .
This 24 - week study was divided into a 16 - week titration phase followed by an 8 - week maintenance phase .
In the active treatment arms of this study , doses below the target dose were permitted during the maintenance phase in the event of poor tolerability .
Figure 3 illustrates the time course for the change from baseline in ADAS - Cog scores for all 4 treatment groups over the 24 - week study .
At 24 weeks , the mean differences in the ADAS - Cog change scores for the rivastigmine - treated patients compared to the patients on placebo , were 1 . 8 , 2 . 9 , and 1 . 8 units for the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours , rivastigmine transdermal system 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours , and rivastigmine capsule 6 mg twice daily groups , respectively .
The difference between each of these groups and placebo was statistically significant .
Although a slight improvement was observed with the 17 . 4 mg / 24 hours transdermal system compared to the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours transdermal system on this outcome measure , no meaningful difference between the two was seen on the global evaluation ( see Figure 4 ) .
Figure 3 Time Course of the Change from Baseline in ADAS - Cog Score for Patients Observed at Each Time Point in Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 4 presents the distribution of patients ' scores on the ADCS - CGIC for all 4 treatment groups .
At 24 weeks , the mean difference in the ADCS - CGIC scores for the comparison of patients in each of the rivastigmine - treated groups with the patients on placebo was 0 . 2 units .
The difference between each of these groups and placebo was statistically significant .
Figure 4 Distribution of ADCS - CGIC Scores for Patients Completing Study 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] International 48 - Week Study of Rivastigmine Transdermal System in Dementia of the Alzheimer ' s Type ( Study 2 ) This study was a randomized double - blind clinical investigation in patients with Alzheimer ' s disease [ diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA and DSM - IV criteria , Mini - Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score greater than or equal to 10 and less than or equal to 24 ] ( Study 2 ) .
The mean age of patients participating in this trial was 76 years with a range of 50 to 85 years .
Approximately 65 % of patients were women and 35 % were men .
The racial distribution was approximately Caucasian 97 % , Black 2 % , Asian 0 . 5 % , and other races 1 % .
Approximately 27 % of the patients were taking memantine throughout the entire duration of the study .
Alzheimer ' s disease patients who received 24 to 48 weeks open - label treatment with rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours and who demonstrated functional and cognitive decline were randomized into treatment with either rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours or rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours in a 48 - week , double - blind treatment phase .
Functional decline was assessed by the investigator and cognitive decline was defined as a decrease in the MMSE score of greater than or equal to 2 points from the previous visit or a decrease of greater than or equal to 3 points from baseline .
Study 2 was designed to compare the efficacy of rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours versus that of rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours during the 48 - week , double blind treatment phase .
The ability of the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours to improve cognitive performance over that provided by the rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours was assessed by the cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer ' s Disease Assessment Scale ( ADAS - Cog ) [ see Clinical Studies , ( 14 ) ] .
The ability of the rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours to improve overall function versus that provided by rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours was assessed by the instrumental subscale of the Alzheimer ' s Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living ( ADCS - IADL ) .
The ADCS - IADL subscale is composed of items 7 to 23 of the caregiver - based ADCS - ADL scale .
The ADCS - IADL assesses activities such as those necessary for communicating and interacting with other people , maintaining a household , and conducting hobbies and interests .
A sum score is calculated by adding the scores of the individual items and can range from 0 to 56 , with higher scores indicating less impairment .
Out of a total of 1584 patients enrolled in the initial open - label phase of the study , 567 patients were classified as decliners and were randomized into the 48 - week double - blind treatment phase of the study .
Two hundred eighty - seven ( 287 ) patients entered the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group and 280 patients entered the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group .
Figure 5 illustrates the time course for the mean change from double - blind baseline in ADCS - IADL scores for each treatment group over the course of the 48 - week treatment phase of the study .
Decline in the mean ADCS - IADL score from the double - blind baseline for the Intent to Treat – Last Observation Carried Forward ( ITT - LOCF ) analysis was less at each timepoint in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hour rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group than in the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group .
The 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours dose was statistically significantly superior to the 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours dose at weeks 16 , 24 , 32 , and 48 ( primary endpoint ) .
Figure 6 illustrates the time course for the mean change from double - blind baseline in ADAS - Cog scores for both treatment groups over the 48 - week treatment phase .
The between - treatment group difference for rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours versus rivastigmine transdermal system 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours was nominally statistically significant at week 24 ( p = 0 . 027 ) , but not at week 48 ( p = 0 . 227 ) , which was the primary endpoint .
Figure 5 Time Course of the Change from Double - Blind Baseline in ADCS - IADL Score for Patients Observed at Each Time Point in Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 6 Time Course of the Change from Double - Blind Baseline in ADAS - Cog Score for Patients Observed at Each Time Point in Study 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Severe Alzheimer ' s Disease 24 - Week United States Study with Rivastigmine Transdermal System in Severe Alzheimer ' s Disease ( Study 3 ) This was a 24 - week randomized double - blind , clinical investigation in patients with severe Alzheimer ' s disease [ diagnosed by NINCDS - ADRDA and DSM - IV criteria , Mini - Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) score greater than or equal to 3 and less than or equal to 12 ] .
The mean age of patients participating in this trial was 78 years with a range of 51 to 96 years with 62 % aged greater than 75 years .
Approximately 65 % of patients were women and 35 % were men .
The racial distribution was approximately Caucasian 87 % , Black 7 % , Asian 1 % , and other races 5 % .
Patients on a stable dose of memantine were permitted to enter the study .
Approximately 61 % of the patients in each treatment group were taking memantine throughout the entire duration of the study .
The study was designed to compare the efficacy of rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours versus that of rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours during the 24 - week double - blind treatment phase .
The ability of the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system to improve cognitive performance versus that provided by the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system was assessed with the Severe Impairment Battery ( SIB ) which uses a validated 40 - item scale developed for the evaluation of the severity of cognitive dysfunction in more advanced AD patients .
The domains assessed included social interaction , memory , language , attention , orientation , praxis , visuospatial ability , construction , and orienting to name .
The SIB was scored from 0 to 100 , with higher scores reflecting higher levels of cognitive ability .
The ability of the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system to improve overall function versus that provided by the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system was assessed with the Alzheimer ' s Disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living - Severe Impairment Version ( ADCS - ADL - SIV ) which is a caregiver - based ADL scale composed of 19 items developed for use in clinical studies of dementia .
It is designed to assess the patient ' s performance of both basic and instrumental activities of daily living such as those necessary for personal care , communicating and interacting with other people , maintaining a household , conducting hobbies and interests , and making judgments and decisions .
A sum score is calculated by adding the scores of the individual items and can range from 0 to 54 , with higher scores indicating less functional impairment .
In this study , 716 patients were randomized into one of the following treatments : rivastigmine transdermal system 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours or rivastigmine transdermal system 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours in a 1 : 1 ratio .
This 24 - week study was divided into an 8 - week titration phase followed by a 16 - week maintenance phase .
In the active treatment arms of this study , temporary dose adjustments below the target dose were permitted during the titration and maintenance phase in the event of poor tolerability .
Figure 7 illustrates the time course for the mean change from baseline SIB scores for each treatment group over the course of the 24 - week treatment phase of the study .
Decline in the mean SIB score from the baseline for the Modified Full Analysis Set ( MFAS ) - Last Observation Carried Forward ( LOCF ) analysis was less at each timepoint in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group than in the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group .
The 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours dose was statistically significantly superior to the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours dose at weeks 16 and 24 ( primary endpoint ) .
Figure 8 illustrates the time course for the mean change from baseline in ADCS - ADL - SIV scores for each treatment group over the course of the 24 - week treatment phase of the study .
Decline in the mean ADCS - ADL - SIV score from baseline for the MFAS - LOCF analysis was less at each timepoint in the 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group than in the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours rivastigmine transdermal system treatment group .
The 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours dose was statistically significantly superior to the 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours dose at weeks 16 and 24 ( primary endpoint ) .
Figure 7 Time Course of the Change from Baseline in SIB Score for Patients Observed at Each Time Point ( Modified Full Analysis Set – LOCF ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 8 Time Course of the Change from Baseline in ADCS - ADL - SIV Score for Patients Observed at Each Time Point ( Modified Full Analysis Set – LOCF ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Rivastigmine Transdermal System : 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours Each transdermal system of 7 . 75cm2contains 6 . 975 mg rivastigmine USP with in vivo release rate of 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours .
Carton of 30 … … … … … … … … … NDC 70710 - 1196 - 7 Rivastigmine Transdermal System : 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours Each transdermal system of 16cm2 contains 14 . 4 mg rivastigmine USP with in vivo release rate of 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours .
Carton of 30 … … … … … … … … … ..
NDC 70710 - 1197 - 7 Rivastigmine Transdermal System : 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours Each transdermal system of 22 . 4cm2 contains 20 . 16 mg rivastigmine USP with in vivo release rate of 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours .
Carton of 30 … … … … … … … … … ..
NDC 70710 - 1198 - 7 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep rivastigmine transdermal system in the individual sealed pouch until use .
Each pouch contains 1 transdermal system .
Used systems should be folded , with the adhesive surfaces pressed together , and discarded safely .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) .
Importance of Correct Usage Inform patients or caregivers of the importance of applying the correct dose on the correct part of the body .
They should be instructed to rotate the application site in order to minimize skin irritation .
The same site should not be used within 14 days .
The previous day ' s transdermal system must be removed before applying a new transdermal system to a different skin location .
Rivastigmine transdermal system should be replaced every 24 hours and the time of day should be consistent .
It may be helpful for this to be part of a daily routine , such as the daily bath or shower .
Only 1 transdermal system should be worn at a time [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients or caregivers to avoid exposure of the transdermal system to external heat sources ( excessive sunlight , saunas , solariums ) for long periods of time .
Instruct patients who have missed a dose to apply a new transdermal system immediately .
They may apply the next transdermal system at the usual time the next day .
Instruct patients to not apply 2 transdermal systems to make up for 1 missed .
Inform the patient or caregiver to contact the physician for retitration instructions if treatment has been interrupted .
Discarding Used Transdermal Systems Instruct patients or caregivers to fold the transdermal system in half after use , return the used transdermal system to its original pouch , and discard it out of the reach and sight of children and pets .
They should also be informed that drug still remains in the transdermal system after 24 - hour usage .
They should be instructed to avoid eye contact and to wash their hands after handling the transdermal system .
In case of accidental contact with the eyes , or if their eyes become red after handling the transdermal system , they should be instructed to rinse immediately with plenty of water and to seek medical advice if symptoms do not resolve [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 4 ) ] .
Gastrointestinal Adverse Reactions Inform patients or caregivers of the potential gastrointestinal adverse reactions such as nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea , including the possibility of dehydration due to these symptoms .
Explain that rivastigmine transdermal system may affect the patient ' s appetite and / or the patient ' s weight .
Patients and caregivers should be instructed to look for these adverse reactions , in particular when treatment is initiated or the dose is increased .
Instruct patients and caregivers to inform a physician if these adverse reactions persist [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Skin Reactions Inform patients or caregivers about the potential for allergic contact dermatitis reactions to occur .
Patients or caregivers should be instructed to inform a physician if application site reactions spread beyond the transdermal system size , if there is evidence of a more intense local reaction ( e . g . , increasing erythema , edema , papules , vesicles ) and if symptoms do not significantly improve within 48 hours after transdermal system removal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Concomitant Use of Drugs with Cholinergic Action Inform patients or caregivers that while wearing rivastigmine transdermal system , patients should not be taking rivastigmine capsules or Rivastigmine oral solution or other drugs with cholinergic effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Pregnancy Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if they are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Manufactured by : Zydus Lifesciences Ltd .
Plot No . 1 / B , Pharmez - SEZ , Matoda Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 07 / 22 Patient Information Rivastigmine Transdermal System ( Riv - ah - stig - meen ) What is the most important information I should know about Rivastigmine Transdermal System ?
Rivastigmine transdermal system is for skin use only .
What is rivastigmine transdermal system ?
Rivastigmine transdermal system is a prescription medicine used to treat : ● Mild , moderate , and severe memory problems ( dementia ) associated with Alzheimer ' s disease .
● Mild - to - moderate memory problems ( dementia ) associated with Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) .
Based on clinical trials conducted over 6 to 12 months rivastigmine transdermal system was shown to help with cognition which includes ( memory , understanding communication , and reasoning ) and with doing daily tasks .
Rivastigmine transdermal system does not work the same in all people .
Some people treated with rivastigmine transdermal system may : ● Seem much better ● Get better in small ways or stay the same ● Get worse but slower than expected ● Not change and then get worse as expected Some patients will not benefit from treatment with rivastigmine transdermal system .
Rivastigmine transdermal system does not cure Alzheimer ' s disease .
All patients with Alzheimer ' s disease get worse over time .
Rivastigmine transdermal system comes as a transdermal system that delivers rivastigmine ( the medicine in rivastigmine transdermal system ) through the skin .
It is not known if rivastigmine transdermal system is safe or effective in children under 18 years of age .
Who should not use rivastigmine transdermal system ?
Do not use rivastigmine transdermal system if you : ● are allergic to rivastigmine , carbamate derivatives , or any of the ingredients in rivastigmine transdermal system .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in rivastigmine transdermal system .
● have had a skin reaction that : ○ spread beyond the rivastigmine transdermal system size ○ had blisters , increased skin redness , or swelling ○ did not get better within 48 hours after you removed the rivastigmine transdermal system Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if you should use rivastigmine transdermal system .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before using rivastigmine transdermal system ?
Before you use rivastigmine transdermal system , tell your healthcare provider if you : ● have or have had a stomach ulcer ● are planning to have surgery ● have or have had problems with your heart ● have problems passing urine ● have or have had seizures ● have problems with movement ( tremors ) ● have asthma or breathing problems ● have a loss of appetite or are losing weight ● have had a skin reaction to rivastigmine ( the medicine in rivastigmine transdermal system ) in the past ● have any other medical conditions ● are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if the medicine in rivastigmine transdermal system will harm your unborn baby .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
● are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if the medicine in rivastigmine transdermal system passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take rivastigmine transdermal system .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : ● a medicine used to treat inflammation [ nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) ] ● other medicines used to treat Alzheimer ' s or Parkinson ' s disease ● an anticholinergic medicine , such as an allergy or cold medicine , a medicine to treat bladder or bowel spasms , or certain asthma medicines , or certain medicines to prevent motion or travel sickness ● metoclopramide , a drug given to relieve symptoms of nausea , gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) , or nausea and vomiting after surgery or chemotherapy treatment ● If you are undergoing surgery while using rivastigmine transdermal system , inform your doctor because rivastigmine transdermal system may exaggerate the effects of anesthesia , or the effects of a beta - blocker , a type of medicine given for high blood pressure , heart disease , and other medical conditions Ask your healthcare provider if you are not sure if your medicine is one listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use rivastigmine transdermal system ?
● Use rivastigmine transdermal system exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
● Rivastigmine transdermal system comes in 3 different dosage strengths .
● Your healthcare provider may change your dose as needed .
● Wear only 1 rivastigmine transdermal system at a time .
● Rivastigmine transdermal system is for skin use only .
● Only apply rivastigmine transdermal system to healthy skin that is clean , dry , hairless , and free of redness , irritation , burns or cuts .
● Avoid applying rivastigmine transdermal system to areas on your body that will be rubbed against tight clothing .
● Do not apply rivastigmine transdermal system to skin that has cream , lotion , or powder on it .
● Change your rivastigmine transdermal system every 24 hours at the same time of day .
You may write the date and time you put on the rivastigmine transdermal system with a ballpoint pen before applying the transdermal system to help you remember when to remove it .
● Change your application site every day to avoid skin irritation .
You can use the same area , but do not use the exact same spot for at least 14 days after your last application .
● Check to see if the rivastigmine transdermal system has become loose when you are bathing , swimming , or showering .
● Rivastigmine transdermal system is designed to deliver medication during the time it is worn .
If your rivastigmine transdermal system falls off before its usual replacement time , put on a new rivastigmine transdermal system right away .
Replace the new transdermal system the next day at the same time as usual .
Do not use overlays , bandages , or tape to secure a rivastigmine transdermal system that has become loose or try to reapply a rivastigmine transdermal system that has fallen off .
● If you miss a dose or forget to change your rivastigmine transdermal system apply your next rivastigmine transdermal system as soon as you remember .
Do not apply 2 rivastigmine transdermal systems to make up for the missed dose .
● If you miss more than 3 doses of applying rivastigmine transdermal system , call your healthcare provider before putting on a new rivastigmine transdermal system .
You may need to restart rivastigmine transdermal system at a lower dose .
● Always remove the old rivastigmine transdermal system from the previous day before you apply a new one .
● Having more than 1 rivastigmine transdermal system on your body at the same time can cause you to get too much medicine .
If you accidentally use more than 1 rivastigmine transdermal system at a time , call your healthcare provider right away .
If you are unable to reach your healthcare provider , call your local Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while using rivastigmine transdermal system ?
● Do not touch your eyes after you touch the rivastigmine transdermal system .
In case of accidental contact with your eyes or if your eyes become red after handling the transdermal system , rinse immediately with plenty of water and seek medical advice if symptoms do not resolve .
● Rivastigmine transdermal system can cause drowsiness , dizziness , weakness , or fainting .
Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how rivastigmine transdermal system affects you .
● Avoid exposure to heat sources such as excessive sunlight , saunas , or sunrooms for long periods of time .
What are the possible side effects of rivastigmine transdermal system ?
Rivastigmine transdermal system may cause serious side effects , including : ● Medication overdose .
Hospitalization and rarely death may happen when people accidently wear more than 1 transdermal system at the same time .
It is important that the old rivastigmine transdermal system be removed before you apply a new one .
Do not wear more than 1 rivastigmine transdermal system at a time .
● Stomach or bowel ( intestinal ) problems , including : ○ nausea ○ vomiting ○ diarrhea ○ dehydration ○ loss of appetite ○ weight loss ○ bleeding in your stomach ( ulcers ) ● Skin reactions .
Some people have had a serious skin reaction called allergic contact dermatitis ( ACD ) when using rivastigmine transdermal system .
Stop using rivastigmine transdermal system and call your healthcare provider right away if you experience reactions that spread beyond the transdermal system size , are intense in nature and do not improve within 48 hours after the transdermal system is removed .
Symptoms of ACD may be intense and include : ○ itching , redness , swelling , warmth or tenderness of the skin ○ peeling or blistering of the skin that may ooze , drain or crust over ● Heart problems ● Seizures ● Problems with movement ( tremors ) The most common side effects of rivastigmine transdermal systeminclude : ○ depression ○ headache ○ anxiety ○ dizziness ○ stomach pain ○ urinary tract infections ○ muscle weakness ○ tiredness ○ trouble sleeping Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of rivastigmine transdermal system .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store rivastigmine transdermal system ?
○ Store rivastigmine transdermal system between 68ºF to 77ºF ( 20ºC to 25ºC ) .
○ Keep rivastigmine transdermal system in the sealed pouch until ready to use .
Keep rivastigmine transdermal system and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of rivastigmine transdermal system .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in the Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use rivastigmine transdermal system for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give rivastigmine transdermal system to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about rivastigmine transdermal system .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about rivastigmine transdermal system that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . zydususa . com or call 1 - 877 - 993 - 8779 .
What are the ingredients of rivastigmine transdermal system ?
Active ingredient : rivastigmine USP Excipients include : colloidal silicon dioxide , light mineral oil , polyisobutylene adhesive , copolymer foam and polyester film .
Additionally , rivastigmine transdermal system is printed with pharmaceutical grade brown ink which contains acrylic polymers , carbon black , ethoxylated 2 , 4 , 7 , 9 - tetramethyl 5 decyn - 4 , 7 - diol , iron oxide , octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol , polyethylene glycol , polyethylene wax and polytetrafluoroethylene .
Instructions for Use Rivastigmine Transdermal System ( Riv - ah - stig - meen ) You will need the following supplies ( See Figure A ) : Rivastigmine transdermal system is supplied in cartons containing 30 transdermal systems ( See Figure A ) Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Rivastigmine transdermal system is a thin , beige , plastic patch that sticks to the skin .
Each rivastigmine transdermal system is sealed in a pouch that protects it until you are ready to put it on ( See Figure A ) .
• Only 1 rivastigmine transdermal system should be worn at a time .
Do not apply more than 1 rivastigmine transdermal system at a time to the body .
• Do not open the pouch or remove the rivastigmine transdermal system until you are ready to apply it .
Using rivastigmine transdermal system : Step 1 .
Choose an area to apply the rivastigmine transdermal system ( See Figure B ) .
• Instructions for Caregivers : Apply rivastigmine transdermal system to the upper or lower back if it is likely that the patient will remove it .
If this is not a concern , the rivastigmine transdermal system can be applied instead to the upper arm or chest .
Do not apply the rivastigmine transdermal system to areas where it can be rubbed off by tight clothing or belts .
• Only apply the rivastigmine transdermal system to healthy skin that is clean , dry , hairless , and free of redness , irritation , burns or cuts .
Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] The diagram represents areas on the body where rivastigmine transdermal system may be applied .
Only 1 transdermal system should be worn at a time .
Do not apply multiple transdermal systems to the body .
Step 2 .
Remove the rivastigmine transdermal system from the pouch ( See Figure C ) .
Carefully cut the pouch along the dotted line to open and remove the rivastigmine transdermal system .
Save the pouch for later use .
Figure C [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not cut or fold the rivastigmine transdermal system itself .
Step 3 .
Hold your rivastigmine transdermal system ( See Figure D ) .
• Hold your rivastigmine transdermal system with both hands , with the protective liner on top and bend the edges of your transdermal system away from you .
Figure D [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 4 .
Remove 1 side of the adhesive liner ( See Figure E ) .
• A protective liner covers the sticky ( adhesive ) side of the rivastigmine transdermal system .
Peel off smaller side of the protective cover .
Do not touch the sticky part of the rivastigmine transdermal system with your fingers .
Figure E [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 .
Apply the rivastigmine transdermal system to your skin ( See Figure F ) .
• Apply the sticky ( adhesive ) side of the rivastigmine transdermal system to your chosen area of skin and then peel off the other side of the protective cover .
Figure F [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Press down on the rivastigmine transdermal system firmly for 30 seconds to make sure that the edges stick to your skin ( See Figure G ) .
Figure G [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 .
Wash your hands with soap and water right away .
Note : • If your rivastigmine transdermal system falls off , select a new area , and repeat Steps 2 to 6 to apply a new rivastigmine transdermal system .
• Be sure to replace the new rivastigmine transdermal system the next day at the same time as usual .
Removing your rivastigmine transdermal system : Step 7 .
Remove the rivastigmine transdermal system from the skin ( See Figure H ) .
• Gently pull on 1 edge of the rivastigmine transdermal system to remove it from your skin .
Figure H [ MULTIMEDIA ] Throwing away the used rivastigmine transdermal system : Step 8 .
Throw away the used rivastigmine transdermal system ( See Figure I ) .
• Fold the used rivastigmine transdermal system in half ( with the sticky sides together ) and put it back into the pouch that you saved .
Figure I [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Throw away the used rivastigmine transdermal system safely and out of the reach of children and pets .
• Some medicine stays in the transdermal system for 24 hours after you use it and should be folded together ( sticky side together ) and safely thrown away .
Do not try to re - use rivastigmine transdermal systems .
Step 9 .
Wash your hands with soap and water right away .
• After you remove the rivastigmine transdermal system , if any adhesive remains on your skin , you can use soap and water or an oil - based substance ( such as baby oil ) to remove the adhesive .
Alcohol or other dissolving liquids ( such as nail polish remover ) should not be used .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use have been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured by : Zydus Lifesciences Ltd .
Plot No . 1 / B , Pharmez - SEZ , Matoda Ahmedabad , India Distributed by : Zydus Pharmaceuticals ( USA ) Inc .
Pennington , NJ 08534 Rev . : 07 / 22 2084408 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Rx only NDC 70710 - 1196 - 7 Rivastigmine Transdermal System Each System Delivers 4 . 6 mg / 24 hours For Transdermal Use Only .
Contains 30 systems zydus Pharmaceuticals USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 70710 - 1197 - 7 Rivastigmine Transdermal System Each System Delivers 9 . 5 mg / 24 hours For Transdermal Use Only .
Contains 30 systems zydus Pharmaceuticals USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx only NDC 70710 - 1198 - 7 Rivastigmine Transdermal System Each System Delivers 13 . 3 mg / 24 hours For Transdermal Use Only .
Contains 30 systems zydus Pharmaceuticals USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
