DESCRIPTION Paromomycin sulfate is a broad spectrum antibiotic produced by Streptomyces riomosus var .
paromomycinus .
It is a white , amorphous , stable , water - soluble product .
Paromomycin sulfate is designated chemically as 0 - 2 , 6 - Diamino - 2 , 6 - dideoxy - β - L - idopyranosyl - ( 1 → 3 ) - 0 - β - D - ribofuranosyl - ( 1 → 5 ) - 0 - [ 2 - amino - 2 - deoxy - α - D - glucopyranosyl - ( 1 → 4 ) ] - 2 - deoxystreptamine sulfate ( salt ) .
The molecular formula is C23H45N5O14 • xH2SO4 , with a molecular weight of 615 . 64 ( base ) .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each capsule , for oral administration , contains paromomycin sulfate equivalent to 250 mg paromomycin .
Each capsule also contains the following inactive ingredients : FD & C Blue # 1 , D & C Red # 28 , FD & C Red # 40 , gelatin and titanium dioxide .
The imprinting ink for the 250 mg capsule contains D & C yellow # 10 , FD & C blue # 1 , FD & C blue # 2 , FD & C red # 40 , iron oxide black , pharmaceutical shellac glaze , and propylene glycol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The in - vitro and in - vivo antibacterial action of paromomycin closely parallels that of neomycin .
It is poorly absorbed after oral administration , with almost 100 % of the drug recoverable in the stool .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Paromomycin sulfate is indicated for intestinal amebiasis – acute and chronic ( NOTE - It is not effective in extraintestinal amebiasis ) ; management of hepatic coma – as adjunctive therapy .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules and other antibacterial drugs , Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Paromomycin sulfate is contraindicated in individuals with a history of previous hypersensitivity reactions to it .
It is also contraindicated in intestinal obstruction .
PRECAUTIONS Prescribing Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylacticindication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
The use of this antibiotic , as with other antibiotics , may result in an overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
Constant observation of the patientis essential .
If new infections caused by nonsusceptible organisms appear during therapy , appropriate measures should be taken .
The drug should be used with caution in individuals with ulcerative lesions of the bowel to avoid renal toxicity through inadvertent absorption .
Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules is prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Pediatric Use See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Nausea , abdominal cramps , and diarrhea have been reported inpatients on doses over 3 g daily .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Intestinal amebiasis : Adults and Pediatric Patients : Usual dose — 25 to 35 mg / kg body weight daily , administered in three doses with meals , for five to ten days .
Management of hepatic coma : Adults : Usual dose — 4 g daily in divided doses , given at regular intervals for five to six days .
HOW SUPPLIED Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules , USP each contain paromomycin sulfate equivalent to 250 mg paromomycin , are supplied as follows : NDC 23155 - 038 - 01 : Bottles of 100 The capsule is Dark Blue Opaque / White Opaque , imprinted with “ HP 38 ” in black ink on the cap and on the body .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ See USP controlled Room Temperature ] Protect from moisture .
Preserve in tight containers as defined in the USP .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 Manufactured for : Heritage Pharmaceuticals Inc .
East Brunswick , NJ 08816 1 . 866 . 901 .
DRUG ( 3784 ) 51U000000176US02 Issued : 11 / 2017 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Paromomycin Sulfate Capsules , USP , 250 mg - 100 count [ MULTIMEDIA ] 250 mg 100 ct [ MULTIMEDIA ]
