Rx only For Oral Use DESCRIPTION Nifedipine extended - release tablets are an extended - release tablet dosage form of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine .
The product is provided as a general matrix tablet with a polymer coating .
Nifedipine is 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylic acid , 1 , 4 - dihydro - 2 , 6 - dimethyl - 4 - ( 2 - nitrophenyl ) - , dimethyl ester .
The molecular formula is C17H18N2O6 and has the structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nifedipine is a yellow crystalline substance , practically insoluble in water but soluble in ethanol .
It has a molecular weight of 346 . 3 .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets contain 90 mg of nifedipine for once - a - day oral administration .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , colloidal silicon dioxide , ethylcellulose , hydroxyethyl cellulose , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , polydextrose , polyethylene glycol , sodium lauryl sulfate , titanium dioxide , and triacetin .
Contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) as a color additive .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets meet USP Dissolution Test 7 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Nifedipine is a calcium ion influx inhibitor ( slow - channel blocker or calcium ion antagonist ) which inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
The contractile processes of vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Nifedipine selectively inhibits calcium ion influx across the cell membrane of vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle without altering serum calcium concentrations .
Mechanism of Action The mechanism by which nifedipine reduces arterial blood pressure involves peripheral arterial vasodilatation and , consequently , a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance .
The increased peripheral vascular resistance , an underlying cause of hypertension , results from an increase in active tension in the vascular smooth muscle .
Studies have demonstrated that the increase in active tension reflects an increase in cytosolic free calcium .
Nifedipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator which acts directly on vascular smooth muscle .
The binding of nifedipine to voltage - dependent and possibly receptor - operated channels in vascular smooth muscle results in an inhibition of calcium influx through these channels .
Stores of intracellular calcium in vascular smooth muscle are limited and thus dependent upon the influx of extracellular calcium for contraction to occur .
The reduction in calcium influx by nifedipine causes arterial vasodilation and decreased peripheral vascular resistance which results in reduced arterial blood pressure .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Nifedipine is completely absorbed after oral administration .
The bioavailability of nifedipine as nifedipine extended - release tablet relative to immediate - release nifedipine is in the range of 84 % to 89 % .
After ingestion of nifedipine extended - release tablets under fasting conditions , plasma concentrations peak at about 2 . 5 to 5 hours with a second small peak or shoulder evident at approximately 6 to 12 hours post dose .
The elimination half - life of nifedipine administered as nifedipine extended - release tablet is approximately 7 hours in contrast to the known 2 hour elimination half - life of nifedipine administered as an immediate - release capsule .
When nifedipine extended - release tablet is administered as multiples of 30 mg tablets over a dose range of 30 mg to 90 mg , the area under the curve ( AUC ) is dose proportional ; however , the peak plasma concentration for the 90 mg dose given as 3 × 30 mg is 29 % greater than predicted from the 30 mg and 60 mg doses .
Two 30 mg nifedipine extended - release tablets may be interchanged with a 60 mg nifedipine extended - release tablet .
Three 30 mg nifedipine extended - release tablets , however , result in substantially higher Cmax values than those after a single 90 mg nifedipine extended - release tablet .
Three 30 mg tablets should , therefore , not be considered interchangeable with a 90 mg tablet .
Once daily dosing of nifedipine extended - release tablets under fasting conditions results in decreased fluctuations in the plasma concentration of nifedipine when compared to t . i . d . dosing with immediate - release nifedipine capsules .
The mean peak plasma concentration of nifedipine following a 90 mg nifedipine extended - release tablet , administered under fasting conditions , is approximately 115 ng / mL .
When nifedipine extended - release tablet is given immediately after a high fat meal in healthy volunteers , there is an average increase of 60 % in the peak plasma nifedipine concentration , a prolongation in the time to peak concentration , but no significant change in the AUC .
Plasma concentrations of nifedipine when nifedipine extended - release tablet is taken after a fatty meal result in slightly lower peaks compared to the same daily dose of the immediate - release formulation administered in three divided doses .
This may be , in part , because nifedipine extended - release tablet is less bioavailable than the immediate - release formulation .
Nifedipine is extensively metabolized to highly water soluble , inactive metabolites accounting for 60 % to 80 % of the dose excreted in the urine .
Only traces ( less than 0 . 1 % of the dose ) of the unchanged form can be detected in the urine .
The remainder is excreted in the feces in metabolized form , most likely as a result of biliary excretion .
Nifedipine is metabolized via the cytochrome P450 3A4 system .
Drugs that are known to either inhibit or induce this enzyme system may alter the first pass or clearance of nifedipine .
No studies have been performed with nifedipine extended - release tablets in patients with renal failure ; however , significant alterations in the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine immediate - release capsules have not been reported in patients undergoing hemodialysis or chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis .
Since the absorption of nifedipine from nifedipine extended - release tablets could be modified by renal disease , caution should be exercised in treating such patients .
Because nifedipine is metabolized via the cytochrome P450 3A4 system , its pharmacokinetics may be altered in patients with chronic liver disease .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets have not been studied in patients with hepatic disease ; however , in patients with hepatic impairment ( liver cirrhosis ) , nifedipine has a longer elimination half - life and higher bioavailability than in healthy volunteers .
The degree of protein binding of nifedipine is high ( 92 % to 98 % ) .
Protein binding may be greatly reduced in patients with renal or hepatic impairment .
After administration of nifedipine extended - release tablets to healthy elderly men and women ( age > 60 years ) , the mean Cmax is 36 % higher and the average plasma concentration is 70 % greater than in younger patients .
In healthy subjects , the elimination half - life of a different sustained - release nifedipine formulation was longer in elderly subjects ( 6 . 7 h ) compared to young subjects ( 3 . 8 h ) following oral administration .
A decreased clearance was also observed in the elderly ( 348 mL / min ) compared to young subjects ( 519 mL / min ) following intravenous administration .
Coadministration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice results in up to a 2 - fold increase in AUC and Cmax due to inhibition of CYP3A related first - pass metabolism .
Ingestion of grapefruit and grapefruit juice should be avoided while taking nifedipine .
Clinical Studies Nifedipine extended - release tablets produced dose - related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure as demonstrated in two double - blind , randomized , placebo - controlled trials in which over 350 patients were treated with nifedipine extended - release tablets , 30 , 60 , or 90 mg once daily for 6 weeks .
In the first study , nifedipine extended - release tablet was given as monotherapy and in the second study , nifedipine extended - release tablet was added to a beta - blocker in patients not controlled on a beta - blocker alone .
The mean trough ( 24 hours post - dose ) blood pressure results from these studies are shown below : MEAN REDUCTIONS IN TROUGH SUPINE BLOOD PRESSURE ( mmHg ) SYSTOLIC / DIASTOLICNIFEDIPINE EXTENDED - RELEASE DOSE N MEAN TROUGH REDUCTION STUDY 1 30 mg 60 5 . 3 / 2 . 9 60 mg 57 8 . 0 / 4 . 1 90 mg 55 12 . 5 / 8 . 1 STUDY 2 30 mg 58 7 . 6 / 3 . 8 60 mg 63 10 . 1 / 5 . 3 90 mg 62 10 . 2 / 5 . 8 The trough / peak ratios estimated from 24 hour blood pressure monitoring ranged from 41 % to 78 % for diastolic and 46 % to 91 % for systolic blood pressure .
Hemodynamics Like other slow - channel blockers , nifedipine exerts a negative inotropic effect on isolated myocardial tissue .
This is rarely , if ever , seen in intact animals or man , probably because of reflex responses to its vasodilating effects .
In man , nifedipine decreases peripheral vascular resistance which leads to a fall in systolic and diastolic pressures , usually minimal in normotensive volunteers ( less than 5 to 10 mmHg systolic ) , but sometimes larger .
With nifedipine extended - release tablets , these decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by any significant change in heart rate .
Hemodynamic studies of the immediate - release nifedipine formulation in patients with normal ventricular function have generally found a small increase in cardiac index without major effects on ejection fraction , left ventricular end - diastolic pressure ( LVEDP ) , or volume ( LVEDV ) .
In patients with impaired ventricular function , most acute studies have shown some increase in ejection fraction and reduction in left ventricular filling pressure .
Electrophysiologic Effects Although , like other members of its class , nifedipine causes a slight depression of sinoatrial node function and atrioventricular conduction in isolated myocardial preparations , such effects have not been seen in studies in intact animals or in man .
In formal electrophysiologic studies , predominantly in patients with normal conduction systems , nifedipine administered as the immediate - release capsule has had no tendency to prolong atrioventricular conduction or sinus node recovery time , or to slow sinus rate .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nifedipine extended - release tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Concomitant administration with strong P450 inducers , such as rifampin , are contraindicated since the efficacy of nifedipine tablets could be significantly reduced .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
Nifedipine must not be used in cases of cardiogenic shock .
Nifedipine extended - release tablets are contraindicated in patients with a known hypersensitivity to any component of the tablet .
WARNINGS Excessive Hypotension Although in most patients the hypotensive effect of nifedipine is modest and well tolerated , occasional patients have had excessive and poorly tolerated hypotension .
These responses have usually occurred during initial titration or at the time of subsequent upward dosage adjustment , and may be more likely in patients using concomitant beta - blockers .
Severe hypotension and / or increased fluid volume requirements have been reported in patients who received immediate - release capsules together with a beta - blocking agent and who underwent coronary artery bypass surgery using high - dose fentanyl anesthesia .
The interaction with high - dose fentanyl appears to be due to the combination of nifedipine and a beta - blocker , but the possibility that it may occur with nifedipine alone , with low doses of fentanyl , in other surgical procedures , or with other narcotic analgesics cannot be ruled out .
In nifedipine - treated patients where surgery using high - dose fentanyl anesthesia is contemplated , the physician should be aware of these potential problems and , if the patient ’ s condition permits , sufficient time ( at least 36 hours ) should be allowed for nifedipine to be washed out of the body prior to surgery .
Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Rarely , patients , particularly those who have severe obstructive coronary artery disease , have developed well - documented increased frequency , duration , and / or severity of angina or acute myocardial infarction upon starting nifedipine or at the time of dosage increase .
The mechanism of this effect is not established .
Beta - Blocker Withdrawal When discontinuing a beta - blocker , it is important to taper its dose , if possible , rather than stopping abruptly before beginning nifedipine .
Patients recently withdrawn from beta - blockers may develop a withdrawal syndrome with increased angina , probably related to increased sensitivity to catecholamines .
Initiation of nifedipine treatment will not prevent this occurrence and on occasion has been reported to increase it .
Congestive Heart Failure Rarely , patients ( usually while receiving a beta - blocker ) have developed heart failure after beginning nifedipine .
Patients with tight aortic stenosis may be at greater risk for such an event , as the unloading effect of nifedipine would be expected to be of less benefit to these patients , owing to their fixed impedance to flow across the aortic valve .
PRECAUTIONS General This product contains FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD & C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Hypotension Because nifedipine decreases peripheral vascular resistance , careful monitoring of blood pressure during the initial administration and titration of nifedipine extended - release tablets is suggested .
Close observation is especially recommended for patients already taking medications that are known to lower blood pressure ( see WARNINGS ) .
Peripheral Edema Mild to moderate peripheral edema occurs in a dose - dependent manner with nifedipine extended - release tablets .
The placebo subtracted rate is approximately 8 % at 30 mg , 12 % at 60 mg , and 19 % at 90 mg daily .
This edema is a localized phenomenon , thought to be associated with vasodilation of dependent arterioles and small blood vessels and not due to left ventricular dysfunction or generalized fluid retention .
With patients whose hypertension is complicated by congestive heart failure , care should be taken to differentiate this peripheral edema from the effects of increasing left ventricular dysfunction .
Use in Cirrhotic Patients Clearance of nifedipine is reduced and systemic exposure increased in patients with cirrhosis .
It is unknown how systemic exposure may be altered in patients with moderate or severe liver impairment .
Careful monitoring and dose reduction may be necessary ; consider initiating therapy with the lowest dose available .
Information for Patients Nifedipine extended - release tablets are an extended - release tablet and should be swallowed whole and taken on an empty stomach .
It should not be administered with food .
Do not chew , divide , or crush tablets .
Laboratory Tests Rare , usually transient , but occasionally significant elevations of enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase , CPK , LDH , SGOT and SGPT have been noted .
The relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain in most cases , but probable in some .
These laboratory abnormalities have rarely been associated with clinical symptoms ; however , cholestasis with or without jaundice has been reported .
A small increase ( < 5 % ) in mean alkaline phosphatase was noted in patients treated with nifedipine extended - release tablets .
This was an isolated finding and it rarely resulted in values which fell outside the normal range .
Rare instances of allergic hepatitis have been reported with nifedipine treatment .
In controlled studies , nifedipine extended - release tablets did not adversely affect serum uric acid , glucose , cholesterol , or potassium .
Nifedipine , like other calcium channel blockers , decreases platelet aggregation in vitro .
Limited clinical studies have demonstrated a moderate but statistically significant decrease in platelet aggregation and increase in bleeding time in some nifedipine patients .
This is thought to be a function of inhibition of calcium transport across the platelet membrane .
No clinical significance for these findings has been demonstrated .
Positive direct Coombs ’ test , with or without hemolytic anemia , has been reported , but a causal relationship between nifedipine administration and positivity of this laboratory test , including hemolysis , could not be determined .
Although nifedipine has been used safely in patients with renal dysfunction and has been reported to exert a beneficial effect in certain cases , rare reversible elevations in BUN and serum creatinine have been reported in patients with pre - existing chronic renal insufficiency .
The relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain in most cases but probable in some .
Drug Interactions Nifedipine is mainly eliminated by metabolism and is a substrate of CYP3A .
Inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A can impact the exposure to nifedipine and consequently its desirable and undesirable effects .
In vitro and in vivo data indicate that nifedipine can inhibit the metabolism of drugs that are substrates of CYP3A , thereby increasing the exposure to other drugs .
Nifedipine is a vasodilator , and coadministration of other drugs affecting blood pressure may result in pharmacodynamic interactions .
CYP3A Inhibitors CYP3A inhibitors such as ketoconazole , fluconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , erythromycin ( azithromycin , although structurally related to the class of macrolide antibiotic , is void of clinically relevant CYP3A inhibition ) , grapefruit , nefazodone , fluoxetine , saquinavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , and ritonavir may result in increased exposure to nifedipine when coadministered .
Careful monitoring and dose adjustment may be necessary ; consider initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose available if given concomitantly with these medications .
Strong CYP3A Inducers Strong CYP3A inducers , such as rifampin , rifabutin , phenobarbital , phenytoin , carbamazepine , and St . John ’ s Wort reduce the bioavailability and efficacy of nifedipine ; therefore nifedipine should not be used in combination with strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Cardiovascular Drugs Antiarrhythmics Quinidine : Quinidine is a substrate of CYP3A and has been shown to inhibit CYP3A in vitro .
Coadministration of multiple doses of quinidine sulfate , 200 mg t . i . d . , and nifedipine , 20 mg t . i . d . , increased Cmax and AUC of nifedipine in healthy volunteers by factors of 2 . 30 and 1 . 37 , respectively .
The heart rate in the initial interval after drug administration was increased by up to 17 . 9 beats / minute .
The exposure to quinidine was not importantly changed in the presence of nifedipine .
Monitoring of heart rate and adjustment of the nifedipine dose , if necessary , are recommended when quinidine is added to a treatment with nifedipine .
Flecainide : There has been too little experience with the coadministration of flecainide with nifedipine to recommend concomitant use .
Calcium Channel Blockers Diltiazem : Pretreatment of healthy volunteers with 30 mg or 90 mg t . i . d . diltiazem p . o . increased the AUC of nifedipine after a single dose of 20 mg nifedipine by factors of 2 . 2 and 3 . 1 , respectively .
The corresponding Cmax values of nifedipine increased by factors of 2 . 0 and 1 . 7 , respectively .
Caution should be exercised when coadministering diltiazem and nifedipine and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine should be considered .
Verapamil : Verapamil , a CYP3A inhibitor , can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored and reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
ACE Inhibitors Benazepril : In healthy volunteers receiving single dose of 20 mg nifedipine ER and benazepril 10 mg , the plasma concentrations of benazeprilat and nifedipine in the presence and absence of each other were not statistically significantly different .
A hypotensive effect was only seen after coadministration of the two drugs .
The tachycardic effect of nifedipine was attenuated in the presence of benazepril .
Angiotensin - II Blockers Irbesartan : In vitro studies show significant inhibition of the formation of oxidized irbesartan metabolites by nifedipine .
However , in clinical studies , concomitant nifedipine had no effect on irbesartan pharmacokinetics .
Candesartan : No significant drug interaction has been reported in studies with candesartan cilexitil given together with nifedipine .
Because candesartan is not significantly metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and at therapeutic concentrations has no effect on cytochrome P450 enzymes , interactions with drugs that inhibit or are metabolized by those enzymes would not be expected .
Beta - Blockers Nifedipine extended - release tablet was well tolerated when administered in combination with beta - blockers in 187 hypertensive patients in a placebo - controlled clinical trial .
However , there have been occasional literature reports suggesting that the combination of nifedipine and beta - adrenergic blocking drugs may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure , severe hypotension , or exacerbation of angina in patients with cardiovascular disease .
Clinical monitoring is recommended , and a dose adjustment of nifedipine should be considered .
Timolol : Hypotension is more likely to occur if dihydropryridine calcium antagonists such as nifedipine are coadministered with timolol .
Central Alpha1 - Blockers Doxazosin : Healthy volunteers participating in a multiple dose doxazosin - nifedipine interaction study received 2 mg doxazosin q . d . alone or combined with 20 mg nifedipine ER b . i . d . Coadministration of nifedipine resulted in a decrease in AUC and Cmax of doxazosin to 83 % and 86 % of the values in the absence of nifedipine , respectively .
In the presence of doxazosin , AUC and Cmax of nifedipine were increased by factors of 1 . 13 and 1 . 23 , respectively .
Compared to nifedipine monotherapy , blood pressure was lower in the presence of doxazosin .
Blood pressure should be monitored when doxazosin is coadministered with nifedipine and dose reduction of nifedipine considered .
Digitalis Digoxin : The simultaneous administration of nifedipine and digoxin may lead to reduced clearance resulting in an increase in plasma concentrations of digoxin .
Since there have been isolated reports of patients with elevated digoxin levels , and there is a possible interaction between digoxin and nifedipine extended - release tablet , it is recommended that digoxin levels be monitored when initiating , adjusting , and discontinuing nifedipine extended - release tablet to avoid possible over - or under - digitalization .
Antithrombotics Coumarins : There have been rare reports of increased prothrombin time in patients taking coumarin anticoagulants to whom nifedipine was administered .
However , the relationship to nifedipine therapy is uncertain .
Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors Clopidogrel : No clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidogrel was coadministered with nifedipine .
Tirofiban : Coadministration of nifedipine did not alter the exposure to tirofiban importantly .
Other Diuretics , PDE5 inhibitors , alpha - methyldopa : Nifedipine may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of these concomitantly administered agents .
Non - Cardiovascular Drugs Antifungal Drugs Ketoconazole , itraconazole , and fluconazole are CYP3A inhibitors and can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored and a dose reduction of nifedipine considered .
Antisecretory Drugs Omeprazole : In healthy volunteers receiving a single dose of 10 mg nifedipine , AUC and Cmax of nifedipine after pretreatment with omeprazole 20 mg q . d . for 8 days were 1 . 26 and 0 . 87 times those after pretreatment with placebo .
Pretreatment with or coadministration of omeprazole did not impact the effect of nifedipine on blood pressure or heart rate .
The impact of omeprazole on nifedipine is not likely to be of clinical relevance .
Pantoprazole : In healthy volunteers , the exposure to neither drug was changed significantly in the presence of the other drug .
Ranitidine : Five studies in healthy volunteers investigated the impact of multiple ranitidine doses on the single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of nifedipine .
Two studies investigated the impact of coadministered ranitidine on blood pressure in hypertensive subjects on nifedipine .
Coadministration of ranitidine did not have relevant effects on the exposure to nifedipine that affected the blood pressure or heart rate in normotensive or hypertensive subjects .
Cimetidine : Five studies in healthy volunteers investigated the impact of multiple cimetidine doses on the single or multiple dose pharmacokinetics of nifedipine .
Two studies investigated the impact of coadministered cimetidine on blood pressure in hypertensive subjects on nifedipine .
In normotensive subjects receiving single doses of 10 mg or multiple doses of up to 20 mg nifedipine t . i . d . alone or together with cimetidine up to 1000 mg / day , the AUC values of nifedipine in the presence of cimetidine were between 1 . 52 and 2 . 01 times those in the absence of cimetidine .
The Cmax values of nifedipine in the presence of cimetidine were increased by factors ranging between 1 . 60 and 2 . 02 .
The increase in exposure to nifedipine by cimetidine was accompanied by relevant changes in blood pressure or heart rate in normotensive subjects .
Hypertensive subjects receiving 10 mg q . d . nifedipine alone or in combination with cimetidine 1000 mg q . d . also experienced relevant changes in blood pressure when cimetidine was added to nifedipine .
The interaction between cimetidine and nifedipine is of clinical relevance and blood pressure should be monitored , and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
Cisapride : Simultaneous administration of cisapride and nifedipine may lead to increased plasma concentrations of nifedipine .
Antibacterial Drugs Quinupristin / Dalfopristin : In vitro drug interaction studies have demonstrated that quinupristin / dalfopristin significantly inhibits the CYP3A metabolism of nifedipine .
Concomitant administration of quinupristin / dalfopristin and nifedipine ( repeated oral dose ) in healthy volunteers increased AUC and Cmax for nifedipine by factors of 1 . 44 and 1 . 18 , respectively , compared to nifedipine monotherapy .
Upon coadministration of quinupristin / dalfopristin with nifedipine , blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
Erythromycin : Erythromycin , a CYP3A inhibitor , can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
Antitubercular Drugs Rifampin : Strong CYP3A inducers , such as rifampin , rifapentin , and rifabutin reduce the bioavailability of nifedipine which may reduce the efficacy of nifedipine ; therefore nifedipine should not be used in combination with strong CYP3A inducers such as rifampin ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
The impact of multiple oral doses of 600 mg rifampin on the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine after a single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule was evaluated in a clinical study .
Twelve healthy male volunteers received a single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule on study Day 1 .
Starting on study Day 2 , the subjects received 600 mg rifampin once daily for 14 days .
On study Day 15 , a second single oral dose of 20 mg nifedipine capsule was administered together with the last dose of rifampin .
Compared to study Day 1 , 14 days pretreatment with rifampin reduced Cmax and AUC of concomitantly administered nifedipine on average by 95 % and 97 % , respectively .
Antiviral Drugs Amprenavir , atanazavir , delavirine , fosamprinavir , indinavir , nelfinavir , and ritonavir , as CYP3A inhibitors , can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine .
Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring of patients recommended .
CNS Drugs Nefazodone , a CYP3A inhibitor , can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
Fluoxetine , a CYP3A inhibitor , can inhibit the metabolism of nifedipine and increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of nifedipine considered .
Valproic acid may increase the exposure to nifedipine during concomitant therapy .
Blood pressure should be monitored , and a dose reduction of nifedipine considered .
Phenytoin , Phenobarbital , and Carbamazepine : Nifedipine is metabolized by CYP3A .
Coadministration of nifedipine 10 mg capsule and 60 mg nifedipine coat - core tablet with phenytoin , an inducer of CYP3A , lowered the AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by approximately 70 % .
Phenobarbital and carbamazepine are also inducers of CYP3A .
Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered in patients taking phenytoin , phenobarbital , and carbamazepine .
Antiemetic Drugs Dolasetron : In patients taking dolasetron by the oral or intravenous route and nifedipine , no effect was shown on the clearance of hydrodolasetron .
Immunosuppressive Drugs Tacrolimus : Tacrolimus has been shown to be metabolized via the CYP3A system .
Nifedipine has been shown to inhibit the metabolism of tacrolimus in vitro .
Transplant patients on tacrolimus and nifedipine required from 26 % to 38 % smaller doses than patients not receiving nifedipine .
Nifedipine can increase the exposure to tacrolimus .
When nifedipine is coadministered with tacrolimus , the blood concentrations of tacrolimus should be monitored and a reduction of the dose of tacrolimus considered .
Sirolimus : A single 60 mg dose of nifedipine and a single 10 mg dose of sirolimus oral solution were administered to 24 healthy volunteers .
Clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug interactions were not observed .
Glucose Lowering Drugs Pioglitazone : Coadministration of pioglitazone for 7 days with 30 mg nifedipine ER administered orally q . d . for 4 days to male and female volunteers resulted in least square mean ( 90 % CI ) values for unchanged nifedipine of 0 . 83 ( 0 . 73 to 0 . 95 ) for Cmax and 0 . 88 ( 0 . 80 to 0 . 96 ) for AUC relative to nifedipine monotherapy .
In view of the high variability of nifedipine pharmacokinetics , the clinical significance of this finding is unknown .
Rosiglitazone : Coadministration of rosiglitazone ( 4 mg b . i . d . ) was shown to have no clinically relevant effect on the pharmacokinetics of nifedipine .
Metformin : A single dose metformin - nifedipine interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that coadministration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20 % and 9 % , respectively , and increased the amount of metformin excreted in urine .
Tmax and half - life were unaffected .
Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin .
Miglitol : No effect of miglitol was observed on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of nifedipine .
Repaglinide : Coadministration of 10 mg nifedipine with a single dose of 2 mg repaglinide ( after 4 days nifedipine 10 mg t . i . d . and repaglinide 2 mg t . i . d . ) resulted in unchanged AUC and Cmax values for both drugs .
Acarbose : Nifedipine tends to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of glucose control .
If nifedipine is coadministered with acarbose , blood glucose levels should be monitored carefully and a dose adjustment of nifedipine considered .
Drugs Interfering with Food Absorption Orlistat : In 17 normal - weight subjects receiving orlistat 120 mg t . i . d . for 6 days , orlistat did not alter the bioavailability of 60 mg nifedipine ( extended - release tablets ) .
Dietary Supplements Grapefruit Juice : In healthy volunteers , a single dose coadministration of 250 mL double strength grapefruit juice with 10 mg nifedipine increased AUC and Cmax by factors of 1 . 35 and 1 . 13 , respectively .
Ingestion of repeated doses of grapefruit juice ( 5 × 200 mL in 12 hours ) after administration of 20 mg nifedipine ER increased AUC and Cmax of nifedipine by a factor of 2 .
Grapefruit juice should be avoided by patients on nifedipine .
The intake of grapefruit juice should be stopped at least 3 days prior to initiating patients on nifedipine .
Herbals St . John ’ s Wort : St . John ’ s Wort is an inducer of CYP3A and may decrease exposure to nifedipine .
Alternative antihypertensive therapy should be considered in patients in whom St . John ’ s Wort therapy is necessary .
CYP2D6 Probe Drug Debrisoquine : In healthy volunteers , pretreatment with nifedipine 20 mg t . i . d . for 5 days did not change the metabolic ratio of hydroxydebrisoquine to debrisoquine measured in urine after a single dose of 10 mg debrisoquine .
Thus , it is improbable that nifedipine inhibits in vivo the metabolism of other drugs that are substrates of CYP2D6 .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Nifedipine was administered orally to rats for two years and was not shown to be carcinogenic .
When given to rats prior to mating , nifedipine caused reduced fertility at a dose approximately 30 times the maximum recommended human dose .
There is a literature report of reversible reduction in the ability of human sperm obtained from a limited number of infertile men taking recommended doses of nifedipine to bind to and fertilize an ovum in vitro .
In vivo mutagenicity studies were negative .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C In rodents , rabbits , and monkeys , nifedipine has been shown to have a variety of embryotoxic , placentotoxic , teratogenic , and fetotoxic effects , including stunted fetuses ( rats , mice , and rabbits ) , digital anomalies ( rats and rabbits ) , rib deformities ( mice ) , cleft palate ( mice ) , small placentas and underdeveloped chorionic villi ( monkeys ) , embryonic and fetal deaths ( rats , mice , and rabbits ) , prolonged pregnancy ( rats ; not evaluated in other species ) , and decreased neonatal survival ( rats ; not evaluated in other species ) .
On a mg / kg or mg / m2 basis , some of the doses associated with these various effects are higher than the maximum recommended human dose and some are lower , but all are within an order of magnitude of it .
The digital anomalies seen in nifedipine - exposed rabbit pups are strikingly similar to those seen in pups exposed to phenytoin , and these are in turn similar to the phalangeal deformities that are the most common malformation seen in human children with in utero exposure to phenytoin .
From the clinical evidence available , a specific prenatal risk has not been identified .
However , an increase in perinatal asphyxia , caesarean delivery , prematurity , and intrauterine growth retardation have been reported .
Careful monitoring of blood pressure must be exercised in pregnant women , when administering nifedipine in combination with IV magnesium sulfate due to the possibility of an excessive fall in blood pressure which could harm the mother and fetus .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Nursing Mothers Nifedipine is excreted in human milk .
Nursing mothers are advised not to breastfeed their babies when taking the drug .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of nifedipine in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Although small pharmacokinetic studies have identified an increased half - life and increased Cmax and AUC ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) , clinical studies of nifedipine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Patients with Galactose Intolerance Since this medicinal product contains lactose , patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance , the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose - galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The incidence of adverse events during treatment with nifedipine extended - release tablets in doses up to 90 mg daily were derived from multi - center , placebo - controlled clinical trials in 370 hypertensive patients .
Atenolol 50 mg once daily was used concomitantly in 187 of the 370 patients on nifedipine extended - release tablets and in 64 of the 126 patients on placebo .
All adverse events reported during nifedipine extended - release tablets therapy were tabulated independently of their causal relationship to medication .
The most common adverse event reported with nifedipine extended - release tablets was peripheral edema .
This was dose related , and the frequency was 18 % on nifedipine extended - release tablets 30 mg daily , 22 % on nifedipine extended - release tablets 60 mg daily , and 29 % on nifedipine extended - release tablets 90 mg daily versus 10 % on placebo .
Other common adverse events reported in the above placebo - controlled trials include : Adverse Event NIFEDIPINE EXTENDED - RELEASE TABLETS ( % ) ( n = 370 ) PLACEBO ( % ) ( n = 126 ) Headache 19 13 Flushing / heat sensation 4 0 Dizziness 4 2 Fatigue / asthenia 4 4 Nausea 2 1 Constipation 1 0 Where the frequency of adverse events with nifedipine extended - release tablets and placebo is similar , causal relationship cannot be established .
The following adverse events were reported with an incidence of 3 % or less in daily doses up to 90 mg : Body as a Whole / Systemic : chest pain , leg pain Central Nervous System : paresthesia , vertigo Dermatologic : rash Gastrointestinal : constipation Musculoskeletal : leg cramps Respiratory : epistaxis , rhinitis Urogenital : impotence , urinary frequency Other adverse events reported with an incidence of less than 1 % were : Body as a Whole / Systemic : allergic reaction , asthenia , cellulitis , substernal chest pain , chills , facial edema , lab test abnormal , malaise , neck pain , pelvic pain , pain , photosensitivity reaction .
Cardiovascular : atrial fibrillation , bradycardia , cardiac arrest , extrasystole , hypotension , migraine , palpitations , phlebitis , postural hypotension , tachycardia , cutaneous angiectases Central Nervous System : anxiety , confusion , decreased libido , depression , hypertonia , hypesthesia , insomnia , somnolence Dermatologic : angioedema , petechial rash , pruritus , sweating Gastrointestinal : abdominal pain , diarrhea , dry mouth , dysphagia , dyspepsia , eructation , esophagitis , flatulence , gastrointestinal disorder , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , GGT increased , gum disorder , gum hemorrhage , vomiting Hematologic : eosinophilia , lymphadenopathy Metabolic : gout , weight loss Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , arthritis , joint disorder , myalgia , myasthenia Respiratory : dyspnea , increased cough , rales , pharyngitis , stridor Special Senses : abnormal vision , amblyopia , conjunctivitis , diplopia , eye disorder , eye hemorrhage , tinnitus Urogenital / Reproductive : dysuria , kidney calculus , nocturia , breast engorgement , polyuria , urogenital disorder , erectile dysfunction ( ED ) The following adverse events have been reported rarely in patients given nifedipine in coat core or other formulations : allergenic hepatitis , alopecia , anaphylactic reaction , anemia , arthritis with ANA ( + ) , depression , erythromelalgia , exfoliative dermatitis , fever , gingival hyperplasia , gynecomastia , hyperglycemia , jaundice , leukopenia , mood changes , muscle cramps , nervousness , paranoid syndrome , purpura , shakiness , sleep disturbances , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , syncope , taste perversion , thrombocytopenia , toxic epidermal necrolysis , transient blindness at the peak of plasma level , tremor , and urticaria .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Oceanside Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Experience with nifedipine overdosage is limited .
Symptoms associated with severe nifedipine overdosage include loss of consciousness , drop in blood pressure , heart rhythm disturbances , metabolic acidosis , hypoxia , cardiogenic shock with pulmonary edema .
Generally , overdosage with nifedipine leading to pronounced hypotension calls for active cardiovascular support including monitoring of cardiovascular and respiratory function , elevation of extremities , judicious use of calcium infusion , pressor agents , and fluids .
After oral ingestion , thorough gastric lavage is indicated , if necessary in combination with irrigation of the small intestine .
In cases involving overdosage of a slow - release product like nifedipine , elimination must be as complete as possible , including from the small intestine , to prevent the subsequent absorption of the active substance .
Additional liquid or volume must be administered with caution because of the risk of fluid overload .
Clearance of nifedipine would be expected to be prolonged in patients with impaired liver function .
Since nifedipine is highly protein bound , dialysis is not likely to be of any benefit ; however , plasmapheresis may be beneficial .
There has been one reported case of massive overdosage with tablets of another extended - release formulation of nifedipine .
The main effects of ingestion of approximately 4800 mg of nifedipine in a young man attempting suicide as a result of cocaine - induced depression was initial dizziness , palpitations , flushing , and nervousness .
Within several hours of ingestion , nausea , vomiting , and generalized edema developed .
No significant hypotension was apparent at presentation , 18 hours post ingestion .
Blood chemistry abnormalities consisted of a mild , transient elevation of serum creatinine and modest elevations of LDH and CPK , but normal SGOT .
Vital signs remained stable , no electrocardiographic abnormalities were noted , and renal function returned to normal within 24 to 48 hours with routine supportive measures alone .
No prolonged sequelae were observed .
The effect of a single 900 mg ingestion of nifedipine capsules in a depressed anginal patient on tricyclic antidepressants was loss of consciousness within 30 minutes of ingestion , and profound hypotension , which responded to calcium infusion , pressor agents , and fluid replacement .
A variety of ECG abnormalities were seen in this patient with a history of bundle branch block , including sinus bradycardia and varying degrees of AV block .
These dictated the prophylactic placement of a temporary ventricular pacemaker , but otherwise resolved spontaneously .
Significant hyperglycemia was seen initially in this patient , but plasma glucose levels rapidly normalized without further treatment .
A young hypertensive patient with advanced renal failure ingested 280 mg of nifedipine capsules at one time , with resulting marked hypotension responding to calcium infusion and fluids .
No AV conduction abnormalities , arrhythmias , or pronounced changes in heart rate were noted , nor was there any further deterioration in renal function .
Bradycardiac heart rhythm disturbances may be treated symptomatically with β - sympathomimetics , and in life - threatening bradycardiac disturbances of heart rhythm temporary pacemaker therapy can be advisable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to each patient ’ s needs .
It is recommended that nifedipine extended - release tablet be administered orally once daily on an empty stomach .
Nifedipine extended - release tablet is an extended - release dosage form and tablets should be swallowed whole , not bitten or divided .
In general , titration should proceed over a 7 to 14 day period starting with 30 mg once daily .
Upward titration should be based on therapeutic efficacy and safety .
The usual maintenance dose is 30 mg to 60 mg once daily .
Titration to doses above 90 mg daily is not recommended .
If discontinuation of nifedipine extended - release tablets is necessary , sound clinical practice suggests that the dosage should be decreased gradually with close physician supervision .
Coadministration of nifedipine with grapefruit juice is to be avoided ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and PRECAUTIONS ) .
Care should be taken when dispensing nifedipine extended - release tablets to assure that the extended - release dosage form has been prescribed .
HOW SUPPLIED Nifedipine Extended - Release Tablets , USP are supplied as 90 mg unscored , round film - coated tablets as follows : Strength Color Markings 90 mg Yellow 90 mg unscored , round , film - coated tablets , engraved with " B " on one side and " 90 " on the other side .
Nifedipine Extended - Release Tablets , USP are supplied in : Strength Quantity NDC Number 90 mg Bottles of 100 68682 - 107 - 10 The tablets should be protected from light and moisture and stored at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant containers .
Distributed by : Oceanside Pharmaceuticals , a division of Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Bausch Health Companies Inc .
Steinbach , MB R5G 1Z7 , Canada © 2019 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9495504 20002765 Rev . 10 / 2019 Package / Label Display Panel – NIFEdipine Extended - Release – 90 mg NDC 68682 - 107 - 10 Rx only NIFEdipine Extended - Release Tablets , USP 90 mg 100 Tablets OCEANSIDE PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
