[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Doxycycline 40 mg is a tetracycline - class drug indicated for the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea in adult patients .
( 1 . 1 ) Limitations of Use This formulation of doxycycline has not been evaluated in the treatment or prevention of infections .
Do not use Doxycycline 40 mg for treating bacterial infections , providing antibacterial prophylaxis , or reducing the numbers or eliminating microorganisms associated with any bacterial disease .
( 1 . 2 ) Doxycycline 40 mg has not been evaluated for the treatment of the erythematous , telangiectatic , or ocular components of rosacea .
( 1 . 2 ) 1 . 1 Indication Doxycycline 40 mg is indicated for the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea in adult patients .
No meaningful effect was demonstrated for generalized erythema ( redness ) of rosacea .
1 . 2 Limitations of Use This formulation of doxycycline has not been evaluated in the treatment or prevention of infections .
Do not use Doxycycline 40 mg for treating bacterial infections , providing antibacterial prophylaxis , or reducing the numbers or eliminating microorganisms associated with any bacterial disease .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria as well as to maintain the effectiveness of other antibacterial drugs , Doxycycline 40 mg should be used only as indicated .
Doxycycline 40 mg has not been evaluated for the treatment of the erythematous , telangiectatic , or ocular components of rosacea .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Take one Doxycycline 40 mg capsule once daily in the morning on an empty stomach , preferably at least one hour prior to or two hours after meals .
( 2 . 1 ) Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects including the development of resistant microorganisms .
( 2 . 2 , 5 . 9 ) 2 . 1 General Dosing Information Take one Doxycycline 40 mg capsule once daily in the morning on an empty stomach , preferably at least one hour prior to or two hours after meals .
Administration of adequate amounts of fluid along with the capsules is recommended to wash down the capsule to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
2 . 2 Important Considerations for Dosing Regimen The dosage of Doxycycline 40 mg differs from that of doxycycline used to treat infections .
Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects including the development of resistant organisms .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 40 mg beige opaque capsule imprinted with “ GLD 40 ” 40 mg capsule .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to doxycycline or any other tetracyclines .
Doxycycline 40 mg is contraindicated in persons who have shown hypersensitivity to doxycycline or other tetracyclines .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • The use of Doxycycline 40 mg during tooth development ( the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) and reversible inhibition of bone growth .
( 5 . 1 , 5 . 2 , 8 . 1 , 8 . 4 ) • Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of Clostridium difficile .
If C . difficile associated diarrhea occurs , discontinue Doxycycline 40 mg .
( 5 . 3 ) • If renal impairment exists , Doxycycline 40 mg doses may need to be adjusted to avoid excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver injury .
( 5 . 4 ) • Photosensitivity can occur with Doxycycline 40 mg ; Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight .
( 5 . 5 ) • Tetracyclines have been associated with the development of autoimmune syndromes ; if symptoms develop , discontinue Doxycycline 40 mg immediately .
( 5 . 6 ) • Doxycycline 40 mg may cause pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) .
Discontinue Doxycycline 40 mg if symptoms occur .
( 5 . 8 ) • Bacterial resistance to tetracyclines may develop in patients using Doxycycline 40 mg .
It should only be used as indicated .
( 5 . 9 ) 5 . 1 Inhibition of Bone Growth During Fetal and Pediatric Development Doxycycline , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may cause inhibition of bone growth when administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood .
All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone - forming tissue .
A decrease in fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline in doses of 25 mg / kg every 6 hours .
This reaction was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinued .
If doxycycline is used during the second or third trimester of pregnancy , advise the patient of the potential risk to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Tooth Discoloration During Fetal and Pediatric Development The use of tetracycline class drugs orally during tooth development ( last half of pregnancy , infancy , and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Enamel hypoplasia has also been reported .
Use of tetracycline drugs is not recommended during tooth development [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 3 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea ( CDAD ) Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including doxycycline , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C . difficile .
C . difficile produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate management should be instituted as clinically indicated .
5 . 4 Metabolic Effects The anti - anabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN .
While this is not a problem in those with normal renal function , in patients with significantly impaired function , higher serum levels of tetracycline - class antibiotics may lead to azotemia , hyperphosphatemia , and acidosis .
If renal impairment exists , even usual oral or parenteral doses may lead to excessive systemic accumulations of the drug and possible liver toxicity .
Under such conditions , lower than usual total doses are indicated , and if therapy is prolonged , serum level determinations of the drug may be advisable .
5 . 5 Photosensitivity Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines .
Although this was not observed during the duration of the clinical studies with Doxycycline 40 mg , patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using Doxycycline 40 mg .
If patients need to be outdoors while using Doxycycline 40 mg , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
5 . 6 Autoimmune Syndromes Tetracyclines have been associated with the development of autoimmune syndromes .
Symptoms may be manifested by fever , rash , arthralgia , and malaise .
In symptomatic patients , liver function tests , ANA , CBC , and other appropriate tests should be performed to evaluate the patients .
Use of all tetracycline - class drugs should be discontinued immediately .
5 . 7 Tissue Hyperpigmentation Tetracycline - class drugs are known to cause hyperpigmentation .
Tetracycline therapy may induce hyperpigmentation in many organs , including nails , bone , skin , eyes , thyroid , visceral tissue , oral cavity ( teeth , mucosa , alveolar bone ) , sclerae and heart valves .
Skin and oral pigmentation has been reported to occur independently of time or amount of drug administration , whereas other pigmentation has been reported to occur upon prolonged administration .
Skin pigmentation includes diffuse pigmentation as well as over sites of scars or injury .
5 . 8 Pseudotumor Cerebri Pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) in adults has been associated with the use of tetracyclines .
The usual clinical manifestations are headache and blurred vision .
Bulging fontanels have been associated with the use of tetracyclines in infants .
While both of these conditions and related symptoms usually resolve after discontinuation of the tetracycline , the possibility for permanent sequelae exists .
Patients should be questioned for visual disturbances prior to initiation of treatment with tetracyclines and should be routinely checked for papiledema while on treatment .
5 . 9 Development of Drug Resistant Bacteria Bacterial resistance to tetracyclines may develop in patients using Doxycycline 40 mg .
Because of the potential for drug - resistant bacteria to develop during the use of Doxycycline 40 mg , it should only be used as indicated .
5 . 10 Superinfection As with other antibiotic preparations , use of Doxycycline 40 mg may result in overgrowth of non - susceptible microorganisms , including fungi .
If superinfection occurs , Doxycycline 40 mg should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Although not observed in clinical trials with Doxycycline 40 mg , the use of tetracyclines may increase the incidence of vaginal candidiasis .
Doxycycline 40 mg should be used with caution in patients with a history of or predisposition to Candida overgrowth .
5 . 11 Laboratory Monitoring Periodic laboratory evaluations of organ systems , including hematopoietic , renal and hepatic studies should be performed .
Appropriate tests for autoimmune syndromes should be performed as indicated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Some of the most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 2 % and more common than with placebo ) are nasopharyngitis , sinusitis , diarrhea , hypertension and aspartate aminotransferase increase .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of Doxycycline 40 mg : In controlled clinical trials of adult subjects with mild to moderate rosacea , 537 subjects received Doxycycline 40 mg or placebo over a 16 - week period .
The following table summarizes selected adverse reactions that occurred in the clinical trials at a rate of ≥ 1 % for the active arm : Table 1 .
Incidence ( % ) of Selected Adverse Reactions in Clinical Trials of Doxycycline 40 mg ( n = 269 ) v . s . Placebo ( n = 268 ) Doxycycline 40 mg Placebo Nasopharyngitis 13 ( 5 ) 9 ( 3 ) Pharyngolaryngeal Pain 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Sinusitis 7 ( 3 ) 2 ( 1 ) Nasal Congestion 4 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) Fungal Infection 5 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 ) Influenza 5 ( 2 ) 3 ( 1 ) Diarrhea 12 ( 5 ) 7 ( 3 ) Abdominal Pain Upper 5 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 ) Abdominal Distention 3 ( 1 ) 1 ( 0 ) Abdominal Pain 3 ( 1 ) 1 ( 0 ) Stomach Discomfort 3 ( 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Dry Mouth 3 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Hypertension 8 ( 3 ) 2 ( 1 ) Blood Pressure Increase 4 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 ) Aspartate Aminotransferase Increase 6 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) Blood Lactate Dehydrogenase Increase 4 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 ) Blood Glucose Increase 3 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Anxiety 4 ( 2 ) 0 ( 0 ) Pain 4 ( 2 ) 1 ( 0 ) Back Pain 3 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Sinus Headache 3 ( 1 ) 0 ( 0 ) Note : Percentages based on total number of study participants in each treatment group .
Adverse Reactions for Tetracyclines : The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving tetracyclines at higher , antimicrobial doses : Gastrointestinal : anorexia , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , glossitis , dysphagia , enterocolitis , and inflammatory lesions ( with vaginal candidiasis ) in the anogenital region .
Hepatotoxicity .
Esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients receiving the capsule forms of the drugs in the tetracycline - class .
Most of the patients experiencing esophagitis and / or esophageal ulceration took their medication immediately before lying down [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
Renal toxicity : Rise in BUN has been reported and is apparently dose - related [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Skin : maculopapular and erythematous rashes .
Exfoliative dermatitis .
Photosensitivity is discussed above [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hypersensitivity reactions : urticaria , angioneurotic edema , anaphylaxis , anaphylactoid purpura , serum sickness , pericarditis , and exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
Blood : Hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , neutropenia , and eosinophilia .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Doxycycline 40 mg .
Nervous system : Pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) , headache .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Patients on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
( 7 . 1 ) • Some bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
( 7 . 2 ) • The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Anticoagulants xxxBecause tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity , patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of their anticoagulant dosage .
7 . 2 Penicillin Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin , it is advisable to avoid giving tetracycline - class drugs in conjunction with penicillin .
7 . 3 Methoxyflurane The concurrent use of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in fatal renal toxicity .
7 . 4 Antacids and Iron Preparations Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by bismuth subsalicylate , proton pump inhibitors , antacids containing aluminum , calcium or magnesium and iron - containing preparations .
7 . 5 Oral Retinoids There have been reports of pseudotumor cerebri ( benign intracranial hypertension ) associated with the concomitant use of isotretinoin and tetracyclines .
Since both oral retinoids , including isotretinoin and acitretin , and the tetracyclines , primarily minocycline , can cause increased intracranial pressure , the concurrent use of an oral retinoid and a tetracycline should be avoided .
7 . 6 Barbiturates and Anti - epileptics Barbiturates , carbamazepine , and phenytoin decrease the half - life of doxycycline .
7 . 7 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions False elevations of urinary catecholamine levels may occur due to interference with the fluorescence test .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Lactation : Breastfeeding is not recommended ( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Doxycycline may cause reversible inhibition of bone growth and permanent discoloration of deciduous teeth when administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 and 5 . 2 ) ] .
Available data from published studies have not shown a difference in major birth defect risk with doxycycline exposure in the first trimester of pregnancy compared to unexposed pregnancies .
Avoid use of Doxycycline 40 mg during the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 – 4 % and 15 – 20 % , respectively .
Data Human Data Published studies , including epidemiological and observational studies , with use of doxycycline during the first trimester of pregnancy have not identified drug - related increases in major birth defects .
The use of tetracycline during tooth development ( second and third trimester of pregnancy ) may cause permanent discoloration of deciduous teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
This adverse reaction is more common during long - term use of the drug but has been observed following repeated short - term courses .
Animal Data Results from animal studies indicate that doxycycline crosses the placenta and is found in fetal tissues .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Based on available published data , doxycycline is likely to be present in human breast milk but the specific concentration in breastmilk is not clear .
There is no information on the effects of doxycycline on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Because there are other antibacterial drug options available to treat rosacea in lactating women and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions , including tooth discoloration and inhibition of bone growth , advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with Doxycycline 40 mg and for 5 days after the last dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Doxycycline 40 mg should not be used in infants and children less than 8 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Doxycycline 40 mg has not been studied in children of any age with regard to safety or efficacy , therefore use in children is not recommended .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Doxycycline 40 mg did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
11 DESCRIPTION Doxycycline , USP Capsules 40 mg are hard gelatin capsule shells filled with two types of doxycycline beads ( 30 mg immediate release and 10 mg delayed release ) that together provide a dose of 40 mg of anhydrous doxycycline ( C22H24N2O8 ) .
The structural formula of doxycycline , USP is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] with an empirical formula of C22H24N2O8 • H2O and a molecular weight of 462 . 46 .
The chemical designation for doxycycline is 2 - Naphthacenecarboxamide , 4 - ( dimethylamino ) - 1 , 4 , 4 a , 5 , 5 a , 6 , 11 , 12 a - octahydro - 3 , 5 , 10 , 12 , 12 a - pentahydroxy - 6 - methyl - 1 , 11 - dioxo - , [ 4 S - ( 4α , 4aα , 5α , 5aα , 6α , 12aα ) ] - , monohydrate .
It is very slightly soluble in water .
Inert ingredients in the formulation are : hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol , Polysorbate 80 , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of Doxycycline 40 mg in the treatment of inflammatory lesions of rosacea is unknown .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Doxycycline 40 mg capsules are not bioequivalent to other doxycycline products .
The pharmacokinetics of doxycycline following oral administration of Doxycycline 40 mg was investigated in 2 volunteer studies involving 61 adults .
Pharmacokinetic parameters for Doxycycline 40 mg following single oral doses and at steady - state in healthy subjects are presented in Table 2 .
* Mean + Median # Day 7 Table 2 .
Pharmacokinetic Parameters [ Mean ( ± SD ) ] for Doxycycline 40 mg N Cmax * ( ng / mL ) Tmax + ( hr ) AUC 0 - ∞ * ( ng ● hr / mL ) t ½ * ( hr ) Single Dose 40 mg capsules 30 510 ± 220 . 7 3 . 00 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 1 ) 9227 ± 3212 . 8 21 . 2 ± 7 . 6 Steady - State # 40 mg capsules 31 600 ± 194 . 2 2 . 00 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 0 ) 7543 ± 2443 . 9 23 . 2 ± 6 . 2 Absorption : In a single - dose food - effect study involving administration of Doxycycline 40 mg to healthy volunteers , concomitant administration with a 1000 calorie , high - fat , high - protein meal that included dairy products , resulted in a decrease in the rate and extent of absorption ( Cmax and AUC ) by about 45 % and 22 % , respectively , compared to dosing under fasted conditions .
This decrease in systemic exposure can be clinically significant , and therefore if Doxycycline 40 mg is taken close to meal times , it is recommended that it be taken at least one hour prior to or two hours after meals .
Distribution : Doxycycline is greater than 90 % bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism : Major metabolites of doxycycline have not been identified .
However , enzyme inducers such as barbiturates , carbamazepine , and phenytoin decrease the half - life of doxycycline .
Excretion : Doxycycline is excreted in the urine and feces as unchanged drug .
It is reported that between 29 % and 55 . 4 % of an administered dose can be accounted for in the urine by 72 hours .
Terminal half - life averaged 21 . 2 hours in subjects receiving a single dose of Doxycycline 40 mg .
Special Populations Geriatric : Doxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in geriatric patients .
Pediatric : Doxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in pediatric patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Gender : The pharmacokinetics of Doxycycline 40 mg were compared in 16 male and 14 female subjects under fed and fasted conditions .
While female subjects had a higher Cmax and AUC than male subjects , these differences were thought to be due to differences in body weight / lean body mass .
Race : Differences in doxycycline pharmacokinetics among racial groups have not been evaluated .
Renal Insufficiency : Studies have shown no significant difference in serum half - life of doxycycline in patients with normal and severely impaired renal function .
Hemodialysis does not alter the serum half - life of doxycycline .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Doxycycline pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in patients with hepatic insufficiency .
Gastric Insufficiency : In a study in healthy volunteers ( N = 24 ) the bioavailability of doxycycline is reported to be reduced at high pH . This reduced bioavailability may be clinically significant in patients with gastrectomy , gastric bypass surgery or who are otherwise deemed achlorhydric .
Drug Interactions : [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
12 . 4 Microbiology Doxycycline is a member of the tetracycline - class of drugs .
The plasma concentrations of doxycycline achieved with Doxycycline 40 mg during administration [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) and Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] are less than the concentration required to treat bacterial diseases .
Doxycycline 40 mg should not be used for treating bacterial infections , providing antibacterial prophylaxis , or reducing the numbers or eliminating microorganisms associated with any bacterial disease [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 . 2 ) ] .
In vivo microbiological studies utilizing a similar drug exposure for up to 18 months demonstrated no detectable long term effects on bacterial flora of the oral cavity , skin , intestinal tract and vagina .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Doxycycline was assessed for potential to induce carcinogenesis in a study in which the compound was administered to Sprague - Dawley rats by gavage at dosages of 20 , 75 , and 200 mg / kg / day for two years .
An increased incidence of uterine polyps was observed in female rats that received 200 mg / kg / day , a dosage that resulted in a systemic exposure to doxycycline approximately 12 . 2 times that observed in female humans who use Doxycycline 40 mg [ exposure comparison based upon area under the curve ( AUC ) values ] .
No impact upon tumor incidence was observed in male rats up to 200 mg / kg / day , or in females at the lower dosages studied .
Doxycycline was assessed for potential to induce carcinogenesis in CD - 1 mice by gavage at dosages 20 , 75 , and 150 mg / kg / day in males and at dosages of 20 , 100 , and 300 mg / kg / day in females .
No impact upon tumor incidence was observed in male and female mice at systemic exposures approximately 4 . 2 and 8 . 3 times that observed in humans , respectively .
Doxycycline demonstrated no potential to cause genetic toxicity in an in vitro point mutation study with mammalian cells ( CHO / HGPRT forward mutation assay ) or in an in vivo micronucleus assay conducted in CD - 1 mice .
However , data from an in vitro mammalian chromosomal aberration assay conducted with CHO cells suggest that doxycycline is a weak clastogen .
Oral administration of doxycycline to male and female Sprague - Dawley rats adversely affected fertility and reproductive performance , as evidenced by increased time for mating to occur , reduced sperm motility , velocity , and concentration , abnormal sperm morphology , and increased pre - and postimplantation losses .
Doxycycline induced reproductive toxicity at all dosages that were examined in this study , as even the lowest dosage tested ( 50 mg / kg / day ) induced a statistically significant reduction in sperm velocity .
Note that 50 mg / kg / day is approximately 3 . 6 times the amount of doxycycline contained in the recommended daily dose of Doxycycline 40 mg when compared on the basis of AUC estimates .
Although doxycycline impairs the fertility of rats when administered at sufficient dosage , the effect of Doxycycline 40 mg on human fertility is unknown .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The safety and efficacy of Doxycycline 40 mg in the treatment of only inflammatory lesions ( papules and pustules ) of rosacea was evaluated in two randomized , placebo - controlled , multi - centered , double - blind , 16 - week Phase 3 trials involving 537 subjects ( total of 269 subjects on Doxycycline 40 mg from the two trials ) with rosacea ( 10 to 40 papules and pustules and two or fewer nodules ) .
Mean baseline lesion counts were 20 and 21 for Doxycycline 40 mg and placebo subject groups respectively .
Pregnant and nursing women , subjects < 18 years of age , and subjects with ocular rosacea and / or blepharitis / meibomianitis who require ophthalmologic treatment were excluded from trials .
At Week 16 , subjects in the Doxycycline 40 mg group were evaluated using co - primary endpoints of mean reduction in lesion counts and a dichotomized static Investigator ’ s Global Assessment of Clear or Almost Clear ( defined as 1 to 2 small papules or pustules ) when compared to the placebo group in both Phase 3 trials .
* Investigator ' s Global Assessment Table 3 : Clinical Results of Doxycycline 40 mg versus Placebo Study 1 Study 2 Doxycycline 40 mg Placebo Doxycycline 40 mg Placebo 40 mg N = 127 N = 124 40 mg N = 142 N = 144 Mean Change in Lesion Count from Baseline - 11 . 8 - 5 . 9 - 9 . 5 - 4 . 3 No .
( % ) of Subjects Clear or Almost Clear in the IGA * 39 ( 30 . 7 % ) 24 ( 19 . 4 % ) 21 ( 14 . 8 % ) 9 ( 6 . 3 % ) Subjects treated with Doxycycline 40 mg did not demonstrate significant improvement in erythema when compared to those treated with placebo .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Doxycycline 40 mg ( beige opaque capsule imprinted with “ GLD 40 ” ) containing doxycycline , USP in an amount equivalent to 40 mg of anhydrous doxycycline .
Bottle of 30 ( NDC 66993 - 815 - 30 ) .
Storage : All products are to be stored at controlled room temperatures of 59 ° F - 86 ° F ( 15 ° C - 30 ° C ) and dispensed in tight , light - resistant containers ( USP ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) Patients taking Doxycycline Capsules 40 mg should receive the following information and instructions : • Advise pregnant women that doxycycline , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may cause permanent discoloration of deciduous teeth and reversible inhibition of bone growth when administered during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 and 5 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with Doxycycline 40 mg and for 5 days after the last dose [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
• Advise patients that use of tetracycline class drugs orally during tooth development ( infancy and childhood up to the age of 8 years ) may cause permanent discoloration of the teeth ( yellow - gray - brown ) .
• Advise patients that use of doxycycline , like other tetracycline - class drugs , may cause inhibition of bone growth when administered during infancy and childhood .
• Advise patients that pseudomembranous colitis can occur with doxycycline therapy .
If patients develop watery or bloody stools , they should seek medical attention .
• Advise patients that pseudotumor cerebri can occur with doxycycline therapy .
If patients experience headache or blurred vision they should seek medical attention .
• Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in some individuals taking tetracyclines , including doxycycline .
Patients should minimize or avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight ( tanning beds or UVA / B treatment ) while using doxycycline .
If patients need to be outdoors while using doxycycline , they should wear loose - fitting clothes that protect skin from sun exposure and discuss other sun protection measures with their physician .
Treatment should be discontinued at the first evidence of sunburn .
• Autoimmune syndromes , including drug - induced lupus - like syndrome , autoimmune hepatitis , vasculitis and serum sickness have been observed with tetracycline - class drugs , including doxycycline .
Symptoms may be manifested by arthralgia , fever , rash and malaise .
Patients who experience such symptoms should be cautioned to stop the drug immediately and seek medical help .
• Counsel patients about discoloration of skin , scars , teeth or gums that can arise from doxycycline therapy .
• Advise patients to take Doxycycline 40 mg exactly as directed .
Increasing doses beyond 40 mg every morning may increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by other antibacterial drugs in the future .
PATIENT INFORMATION Doxycycline , USP , 40 mg Capsules ( daak - suh - sai - kleen ) Read this Patient Information before you start taking Doxycycline 40 mg and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Doxycycline 40 mg is a tetracycline - class medicine .
Doxycycline 40 mg is a prescription medicine used in adults to treat only pimples or bumps ( papules and pustules ) caused by a condition called rosacea .
Doxycycline 40 mg does not lessen redness caused by rosacea .
Doxycycline 40 mg should not be used for the treatment or prevention of infections .
It is not known if Doxycycline 40 mg is : • effective for use for longer than 16 weeks .
• safe for use longer than 9 months .
• safe and effective in children .
Doxycycline 40 mg should not be used in infants and children less than 8 years of age because it may cause stained teeth in infants and children .
Who should not take Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Do not take Doxycycline 40 mg if you are allergic to doxycycline or other medicines in the tetracycline - class .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Before you take Doxycycline 40 mg tell your doctor if you : • have kidney problems .
• have liver problems .
• have diarrhea or watery stools .
• have vision problems .
• have had surgery on your stomach ( gastric surgery ) .
• have or had a yeast or fungal infection in your mouth or vagina .
• have any other medical condition .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
Doxycycline 40 mg may harm your unborn baby .
Taking Doxycycline 40 mg while you are pregnant may cause serious side effects on the growth of bone and teeth of your baby .
Stop taking Doxycycline 40 mg and call your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking Doxycycline 40 mg .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Doxycycline 40 mg can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
Talk to your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take Doxycycline 40 mg .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take Doxycycline 40 mg or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Doxycycline 40 mg and other medicines can affect each other causing serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • a blood thinner medicine .
• a penicillin ( antibacterial medicine ) .
• proton pump inhibitors or antacids that contain aluminum , calcium , or magnesium .
• products containing iron or bismuth subsalicylate .
• a medicine taken by mouth that contains isotretinoin or acitretin .
• a medicine to treat seizures , such as carbamazepine or phenytoin .
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a full list of your medicines , if you are not sure .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Doxycycline 40 mg ?
• Take Doxycycline 40 mg exactly as prescribed by your doctor .
Taking more than your prescribed dose may increase your chance of side effects , including the chance that bacteria will become resistant to Doxycycline 40 mg .
• Take Doxycycline 40 mg 1 time a day in the morning on an empty stomach .
• You should take Doxycycline 40 mg at least one hour before or two hours after a meal .
• Take Doxycycline 40 mg with enough fluid to completely swallow the capsule and to lower your risk of getting irritation or ulcer in your esophagus .
Your esophagus is the tube that connects your mouth to your stomach .
• If you took too much Doxycycline 40 mg call your doctor right away .
• Your doctor may do blood tests during treatment with Doxycycline 40 mg to check for side effects .
What should I avoid while taking Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Avoid sunlight or artificial sunlight , such as tanning booth or sunlamp .
You could get severe sunburn .
Use sunscreen and wear clothes that cover your skin while out in sunlight .
What are the possible side effects of Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Doxycycline 40 mg may cause serious side effects , including : • Harm to an unborn baby .
See “ What should I tell my doctor before taking Doxycycline 40 mg ? ”
• Permanent teeth discoloration .
Doxycycline 40 mg may permanently turn a baby or child ’ s teeth yellow - grey - brown during tooth development .
Doxycycline 40 mg should not be used during tooth development .
Tooth development happens in the last half of pregnancy , and from birth to 8 years of age .
See “ What should I tell my doctor before taking Doxycycline 40 mg ? ”
• Intestine infection ( pseudomembranous colitis ) .
Pseudomembranous colitis can happen with most antibiotics , including Doxycycline 40 mg .
Call your doctor right away if you get diarrhea or bloody stools .
• Immune system reactions including a lupus - like syndrome , hepatitis , and inflammation of blood or lymph vessels ( vasculitis ) .
Stop taking Doxycycline 40 mg and tell your doctor right away if you get joint pain , fever , rash , or body weakness .
• Discoloration ( hyperpigmentation ) .
Doxycycline 40 mg can cause darkening of your skin , scars , teeth , gums , nails , and whites of your eyes .
• Benign intracranial hypertension , also called pseudotumor cerebri .
This is a condition where there is high pressure in the fluid around the brain .
This swelling may lead to vision changes and permanent vision loss .
Stop taking Doxycycline 40 mg and tell your doctor right away if you have blurred vision , vision loss , or unusual headaches .
The most common side effects of Doxycycline 40 mg include : • soreness in the nose and throat • sinus infection • fungus infection • flu - like symptoms • diarrhea • stomach ( abdominal ) bloating or pain • high blood pressure ( hypertension ) • change in certain blood tests Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of Doxycycline 40 mg .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
You may also report side effects to Prasco Laboratories at 1 - 866 - 525 - 0688 .
How should I store Doxycycline 40 mg ?
• Store Doxycycline 40 mg at room temperature between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ( 15 ° C to 30 ° C ) .
• Keep Doxycycline 40 mg in a tightly closed container .
• Keep Doxycycline 40 mg inside container and out of light .
Keep Doxycycline 40 mg and all medicine out of the reach of children .
General information about Doxycycline 40 mg Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not take Doxycycline 40 mg for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Doxycycline 40 mg to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about Doxycycline 40 mg .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can also ask your doctor or pharmacist for information that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in Doxycycline 40 mg ?
Active ingredient : doxycycline Inactive ingredients : hypromellose , iron oxide red , iron oxide yellow , methacrylic acid copolymer , polyethylene glycol , Polysorbate 80 , sugar spheres , talc , titanium dioxide , and triethyl citrate .
Marketed by : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P52927 - 1 or P55306 - 0 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : December 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 66993 - 815 - 30 PRASCO Doxycycline , USP Capsules 40 mg * * 30 mg immediate release & 10 mg delayed release beads Rx only 30 Capsules INERT INGREDIENTS : Hypromellose , Iron Oxide Red , Iron Oxide Yellow , Methacrylic Acid Copolymer , Polyethylene Glycol , Polysorbate 80 , Sugar Spheres , Talc , Titanium Dioxide , and Triethyl Citrate DOSAGE : ONE CAPSULE PER DAY Store at controlled room temperature of 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) .
Keep out of reach of children .
Marketed by : Prasco Laboratories Mason , OH 45040 USA P52926 - 1 or P55305 - 0
