Drug Facts Active ingredient Capsaicin 0 . 025 % Purpose External analgesic Uses temporarily relieves minor aches and pains of muscles and joints due to : • • simple backache • • arthritis • • strains • • sprains Warnings For external use only Read all warnings and directions before use .
Test first on small area of skin .
Do not use • • on wounds or damaged skin • • if you are allergic to capsicum or chili peppers When using this product • • you may experience a burning sensation .
The intensity of this reaction varies among individuals and may be severe .
With regular use , this sensation generally disappears after several days .
• • avoid contact with the eyes , lips , nose and mucous membranes • • do not tightly wrap or bandage the treated area • • do not apply heat to the treated area immediately before or after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • condition worsens or does not improve after regular use • • severe burning persists or blistering occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center immediately .
Directions Adults and children 18 years of age and older : • • apply a thin film of cream to affected area and gently rub in until fully absorbed • • unless treating hands , wash hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after application • • for best results , apply 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 18 years : ask a doctor Other information store at room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) Inactive ingredients acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , cetyl acetate , methylparaben , PPG - 20 methyl glucose ether distearate , propylene glycol , propylparaben , stearate - 100 , stearic acid , stearyl alcohol , triethanolamine , water Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 800 - 645 - 2158 9 am - 5 pm ET , Monday - Friday Mfd for : Rugby Laboratories , Inc .
Duluth , Georgia 30097 Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 60 g Tube Carton NDC 63187 - 660 - 60 Rugby ® SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Rugby OR YOUR MONEY BACK Capsaicin Cream , 0 . 025 % External Analgesic Penetrating Pain Relief Net Wt 2 . 1 oz ( 60 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
