Package Insert PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Containers ) FOR ALL GENERAL IRRIGATION , WASHING AND RINSING PURPOSES Not For Injection By Usual Parenteral Routes Semi - rigid Irrigation Container DESCRIPTION Ringer ' s Irrigation USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , solution of electrolytes in water for injection intended only for sterile irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes .
Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 86 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP 0 . 033 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 8 ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) .
The solution is isotonic ( 310 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
and has the following electrolyte content ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 147 ; K + 4 Ca + + 4 . 5 ; Cl − 156 The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is intended only for use as a single - dose or short procedure irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required the unused portion should be discarded .
Ringer ' s Irrigation USP may be classified as a sterile irrigant , wash , rinse and pharmaceutical vehicle .
The formulas of the active ingredients are : Ingredients Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Potassium Chloride USP KCl 74 . 55 Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP CaCl2 • 2H2O 147 . 01 The plastic container is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene formulated and developed for parenteral drugs .
The copolymer contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachability .
The plastic container is also virtually impermeable to vapor transmission and therefore , requires no overwrap to maintain the proper drug concentration .
The safety of the plastic container has been confirmed by biological evaluation procedures .
The material passes Class Vl testing as specified in the U . S . Pharmacopeia for Biological Tests — Plastic Containers .
These tests have shown that the container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The PIC ™ Container is PVC - free and DEHP - free .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ringer ' s Irrigation USP exerts a mechanical cleansing action for sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters and surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
Ringer ' s Irrigation USP provides an isotonic irrigation with the same ionic constituents as Ringer ' s Injection USP , a modification of Ringer ' s solution ( also called Ringer ' s mixture ) originally used only as a topical physiologic salt solution .
Ringer ' s Irrigation USP is considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs . Calcium Chloride in water dissociates to provide calcium ( Ca + + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
They are normal constituents of the body fluids and are dependent on various physiologic mechanisms for maintenance of balance between intake and output .
Approximately 80 % of body calcium is excreted in the feces as insoluble salts ; urinary excretion accounts for the remaining 20 % .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Ringer ' s Irrigation USP is indicated for all general irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes ; thus this irrigation must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
After opening container , its contents should be used promptly to minimize the possibility of bacterial growth or pyrogen formation .
Discard unused portion of irrigating solution since it contains no preservatives .
PRECAUTIONS General Do not use for irrigation that may result in absorption into the blood .
Caution should be observed when the solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to " dwell " inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
Aseptic technique is essential with the use of sterile solutions for irrigation of body cavities , wounds and urethral catheters or for wetting dressings that come in contact with body tissues .
When used as a " pour " irrigation , no part of the contents should be allowed to contact the surface below the outer protected thread area of the semi - rigid wide mouth container .
When used for irrigation via irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start - up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Discard unused portion .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Ringer ' s Irrigation USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ' s Irrigation USP .
It is also not known whether Ringer ' s Irrigation USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ringer ' s Irrigation USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Caution should be exercised when Ringer ' s Irrigation USP is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Ringer ' s Irrigation have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distention or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
Should any adverse reaction occur , discontinue the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS , and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure .
When used as a vehicle for other drugs , the manufacturer ' s recommendations should be followed .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permits .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Ringer ' s Irrigation USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in PIC ™ ( Plastic Irrigation Containers ) .
The 1000 mL containers are packaged 16 per case and the 2000 mL containers are packaged 8 per case .
NDC Cat .
No .
Size Ringer ' s Irrigation USP 0264 - 2202 - 00 R5310 - 01 1000 mL 0264 - 2202 - 50 R5315 - 01 2000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; however , brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : March 2009 PIC is a trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions For Use of PIC ™ Containers Not for injection .
Aseptic technique is required .
• Caution – Before use , perform the following checks : • ( a ) Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• ( b ) Invert container and inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter ; check the container for leakage or damage .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
• Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
• Single dose container .
Discard unused portion .
• Outer Closure Removal – Grasp the container with one hand and turn the breakaway ring counterclockwise with the other hand until slight resistance is felt .
Then , twisting the container in the opposite direction , turn the breakaway ring sharply until the entire outer cap is loose and can be lifted off .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Connect the administration set through the sterile set port according to set instructions or remove screw cap and pour .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Do not warm above 150 ° F to assure minimal bottle distortion .
Keep bottles upright .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA Y36 - 002 - 691 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bottle Label Ringer ' s Irrigation USP Isotonic Solution for Irrigation REF R5310 - 01 NDC 0264 - 2202 - 00 1000 mL PIC ™ Container Lot Exp .
Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 86 g Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g Calcium Chloride • 2H2O USP 0 . 033 g Water for Injection USP qs Contains no bacteriostat .
pH : 5 . 8 ( 5 . 0 – 7 . 5 ) 310 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 147 K + 4 Ca + + 4 . 5 Cl − 156 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Discard unused portion .
Not for Injection .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seal are intact .
Warning : Do not warm above 150 ° F ( 66 ° C ) .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Usual dosage : See Package Insert .
Rx only PVC - free and DEHP - free B . Braun Medical Inc .
Irvine , CA 92614 - 5895 USA Made in USA PIC is a trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Y37 - 002 - 329 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
