Drug Facts Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromehorphan HBr , 5 mg Guaifenesin , 100 mg Purpose Dextromehorphan HBr , 5 mg … … .
Cough suppressant Guaifenesin , 100 mg … … .
… … … ..
Expectorant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help your child get to sleep Warnings Do not use for a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ' s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ' s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • cough that occurs with excessive phlegm ( mucus ) • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma or chronic bronchitis Stop use and ask a doctor if • cough gets worse or last more than 7 days • cough comes back or occurs with fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious illness .
When using this product do not use more than directed Keep out of reach of children In case of overdose , seek medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • this product does not contain directions or complete warnings for adult use • use only the dosing cup provided • do not exceed 6 doses in a 24 - hour period • mL = milliliter Age ( yrs ) Dose ( ml ) under 4 years do not use 4 to under 6 yrs 2 . 5 - 5 mL every 4 hours 6 to 11 yrs 5 - 10 mL every 4 hours Other information • each 5 mL contains : sodium 3 mg • store at room temperature • dosage cup provided Inactive ingredients acesulfame potassium , citric acid , FD & C red no . 33 , FD & C red no . 40 , flavors , glycerin , monoammonium glycyrrhizinate , poloxamer 407 , potassium sorbate , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium chloride , sodium citrate , sucralose , sucrose Questions ?
1 - 888 - 474 - 3099 Monday - Friday 8 am to 8 pm EST PediaCare . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL PediaCare ® Children Cough & Congestion Non Drowsy 4 FL OZ FL ( 118 mL ) Cherry Flavor [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
