Rx only DESCRIPTION Cevimeline is cis - 2 ’ - methylspiro { 1 - azabicyclo [ 2 . 2 . 2 ] octane - 3 , 5 ’ - [ 1 , 3 ] oxathiolane } hydrochloride , hydrate ( 2 : 1 ) .
Its molecular formula is C10H17NOS . HCl . 1 / 2 H2O , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cevimeline has a molecular weight of 244 . 79 .
It is a white to off white crystalline powder with a melting point range of 201 to 203 ° C .
It is freely soluble in alcohol and chloroform , very soluble in water , and virtually insoluble in ether .
The pH of a 1 % solution ranges from 4 . 6 to 5 . 6 .
Inactive ingredients include hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , and magnesium stearate .
Gelatin capsule shells contain : gelatin , monogramming ink , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate and titanium dioxide .
The monogramming ink contains : ammonium hydroxide , iron oxide , isopropyl alcohol , n - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacodynamics Cevimeline is a cholinergic agonist which binds to muscarinic receptors .
Muscarinic agonists in sufficient dosage can increase secretion of exocrine glands , such as salivary and sweat glands and increase tone of the smooth muscle in the gastrointestinal and urinary tracts .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : After administration of a single 30 mg capsule , cevimeline was rapidly absorbed with a mean time to peak concentration of 1 . 5 to 2 hours .
No accumulation of active drug or its metabolites was observed following multiple dose administration .
When administered with food , there is a decrease in the rate of absorption , with a fasting TMAX of 1 . 53 hours and a TMAX of 2 . 86 hours after a meal ; the peak concentration is reduced by 17 . 3 % .
Single oral doses across the clinical dose range are dose proportional .
Distribution : Cevimeline has a volume of distribution of approximately 6 L / kg and is < 20 % bound to human plasma proteins .
This suggests that cevimeline is extensively bound to tissues ; however , the specific binding sites are unknown .
Metabolism : Isozymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A3 / 4 are responsible for the metabolism of cevimeline .
After 24 hours , 86 . 7 % of the dose was recovered ( 16 % unchanged , 44 . 5 % as cis and trans - sulfoxide , 22 . 3 % of the dose as glucuronic acid conjugate and 4 % of the dose as N - oxide of cevimeline ) .
Approximately 8 % of the trans - sulfoxide metabolite is then converted into the corresponding glucuronic acid conjugate and eliminated .
Cevimeline did not inhibit cytochrome P450 isozymes 1A2 , 2A6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3A4 .
Excretion : The mean half - life of cevimeline is 5 + / - 1 hours .
After 24 hours , 84 % of a 30 mg dose of cevimeline was excreted in urine .
After seven days , 97 % of the dose was recovered in the urine and 0 . 5 % was recovered in the feces .
Special Populations : The effects of renal impairment , hepatic impairment , or ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of cevimeline have not been investigated .
Clinical Studies Cevimeline has been shown to improve the symptoms of dry mouth in patients with Sjögren ’ s Syndrome .
A 6 - week , randomized , double blind , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 75 patients ( 10 men , 65 women ) with a mean age of 53 . 6 years ( range 33 to 75 ) .
The racial distribution was Caucasian 92 % , Black 1 % and other 7 % .
The effects of cevimeline at 30 mg tid ( 90 mg / day ) and 60 mg tid ( 180 mg / day ) were compared to those of placebo .
Patients were evaluated by a measure called global improvement , which is defined as a response of “ better ” to the question , “ Please rate the overall condition of your dry mouth now compared with how you felt before starting treatment in this study . ”
Patients also had the option of selecting “ worse ” or “ no change ” as answers .
Seventy - six percent of the patients in the 30 mg tid group reported a global improvement in their dry mouth symptoms compared to 35 % of the patients in the placebo group .
This difference was statistically significant at p = 0 . 0043 .
There was no evidence that patients in the 60 mg tid group had better global evaluation scores than the patients in the 30 mg tid group .
A 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 197 patients ( 10 men , 187 women ) with a mean age of 54 . 5 years ( range 23 to 74 ) .
The racial distribution was Caucasian 91 . 4 % , Black 3 % and other 5 . 6 % .
The effects of cevimeline at 15 mg tid ( 45 mg / day ) and 30 mg tid ( 90 mg / day ) were compared to those of placebo .
Statistically significant global improvement in the symptoms of dry mouth ( p = 0 . 0004 ) was seen for the 30 mg tid group compared to placebo , but not for the 15 mg group compared to placebo .
Salivary flow showed statistically significant increases at both doses of cevimeline during the study compared to placebo .
A second 12 - week , randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled study was conducted in 212 patients ( 11 men , 201 women ) with a mean age of 55 . 3 years ( range 24 to 75 ) .
The racial distribution was Caucasian 88 . 7 % , Black 1 . 9 % and other 9 . 4 % .
The effects of cevimeline at 15 mg tid ( 45 mg / day ) and 30 mg tid ( 90 mg / day ) were compared to those of placebo .
No statistically significant differences were noted in the patient global evaluations .
However , there was a higher placebo response rate in this study compared to the aforementioned studies .
The 30 mg tid group showed a statistically significant increase in salivary flow from pre - dose to post - dose compared to placebo ( p = 0 . 0017 ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cevimeline hydrochloride is indicated for the treatment of symptoms of dry mouth in patients with Sjögren ’ s Syndrome .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Cevimeline hydrochloride is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled asthma , known hypersensitivity to cevimeline , and when miosis is undesirable , e . g . , in acute iritis and in narrow - angle ( angle - closure ) glaucoma .
WARNINGS Cardiovascular Disease Cevimeline can potentially alter cardiac conduction and / or heart rate .
Patients with significant cardiovascular disease may potentially be unable to compensate for transient changes in hemodynamics or rhythm induced by cevimeline .
Cevimeline should be used with caution and under close medical supervision in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease evidenced by angina pectoris or myocardial infarction .
Pulmonary Disease Cevimeline can potentially increase airway resistance , bronchial smooth muscle tone , and bronchial secretions .
Cevimeline should be administered with caution and with close medical supervision to patients with controlled asthma , chronic bronchitis , or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
Ocular Ophthalmic formulations of muscarinic agonists have been reported to cause visual blurring which may result in decreased visual acuity , especially at night and in patients with central lens changes , and to cause impairment of depth perception .
Caution should be advised while driving at night or performing hazardous activities in reduced lighting .
PRECAUTIONS General Cevimeline toxicity is characterized by an exaggeration of its parasympathomimetic effects .
These may include : headache , visual disturbance , lacrimation , sweating , respiratory distress , gastrointestinal spasm , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , atrioventricular block , tachycardia , bradycardia , hypotension , hypertension , shock , mental confusion , cardiac arrhythmia , and tremors .
Cevimeline should be administered with caution to patients with a history of nephrolithiasis or cholelithiasis .
Contractions of the gallbladder or biliary smooth muscle could precipitate complications such as cholecystitis , cholangitis and biliary obstruction .
An increase in the ureteral smooth muscle tone could theoretically precipitate renal colic or ureteral reflux in patients with nephrolithiasis .
Information for Patients Patients should be informed that cevimeline may cause visual disturbances , especially at night , that could impair their ability to drive safely .
If a patient sweats excessively while taking cevimeline , dehydration may develop .
The patient should drink extra water and consult a health care provider .
Drug Interactions Cevimeline should be administered with caution to patients taking beta adrenergic antagonists , because of the possibility of conduction disturbances .
Drugs with parasympathomimetic effects administered concurrently with cevimeline can be expected to have additive effects .
Cevimeline might interfere with desirable antimuscarinic effects of drugs used concomitantly .
Drugs which inhibit CYP2D6 and CYP3A3 / 4 also inhibit the metabolism of cevimeline .
Cevimeline should be used with caution in individuals known or suspected to be deficient in CYP2D6 activity , based on previous experience , as they may be at a higher risk of adverse events .
In an in vitro study , cytochrome P450 isozymes 1A2 , 2A6 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 , and 3A4 were not inhibited by exposure to cevimeline .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Lifetime carcinogenicity studies were conducted in CD - 1 mice and F - 344 rats .
A statistically significant increase in the incidence of adenocarcinomas of the uterus was observed in female rats that received cevimeline at a dosage of 100 mg / kg / day ( approximately 8 times the maximum human exposure based on comparison of AUC data ) .
No other significant differences in tumor incidence were observed in either mice or rats .
Cevimeline exhibited no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity in a battery of assays that included an Ames test , an in vitro chromosomal aberration study in mammalian cells , a mouse lymphoma study in L5178Y cells , or a micronucleus assay conducted in vivo in ICR mice .
Cevimeline did not adversely affect the reproductive performance or fertility of male Sprague - Dawley rats when administered for 63 days prior to mating and throughout the period of mating at dosages up to 45 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the maximum recommended dose for a 60 kg human following normalization of the data on the basis of body surface area estimates ) .
Females that were treated with cevimeline at dosages up to 45 mg / kg / day from 14 days prior to mating through day seven of gestation exhibited a statistically significantly smaller number of implantations than did control animals .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category C . Cevimeline was associated with a reduction in the mean number of implantations when given to pregnant Sprague - Dawley rats from 14 days prior to mating through day seven of gestation at a dosage of 45 mg / kg / day ( approximately 5 times the maximum recommended dose for a 60 kg human when compared on the basis of body surface area estimates ) .
This effect may have been secondary to maternal toxicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Cevimeline should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from cevimeline , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Although clinical studies of cevimeline included subjects over the age of 65 , the numbers were not sufficient to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Special care should be exercised when cevimeline treatment is initiated in an elderly patient , considering the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy in the elderly .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Cevimeline was administered to 1777 patients during clinical trials worldwide , including Sjögren ’ s patients and patients with other conditions .
In placebo - controlled Sjögren ’ s studies in the U . S . , 320 patients received cevimeline doses ranging from 15 mg tid to 60 mg tid , of whom 93 % were women and 7 % were men .
Demographic distribution was 90 % Caucasian , 5 % Hispanic , 3 % Black and 2 % of other origin .
In these studies , 14 . 6 % of patients discontinued treatment with cevimeline due to adverse events .
The following adverse events associated with muscarinic agonism were observed in the clinical trials of cevimeline in Sjögren ’ s syndrome patients : Table 1 Adverse Event Cevimeline 30 mg ( tid ) ( N [ 1 ] = 533 ) Placebo ( tid ) ( N = 164 ) Excessive Sweating 18 . 7 % 2 . 4 % Nausea 13 . 8 % 7 . 9 % Rhinitis 11 . 2 % 5 . 4 % Diarrhea 10 . 3 % 10 . 3 % Excessive Salivation 2 . 2 % 0 . 6 % Urinary Frequency 0 . 9 % 1 . 8 % Asthenia 0 . 5 % 0 % Flushing 0 . 3 % 0 . 6 % Polyuria 0 . 1 % 0 . 6 % [ 1 ] N is the total number of patients exposed to the dose at any time during the study .
In addition , the following adverse events ( ≥ 3 % incidence ) were reported in the Sjögren ’ s clinical trials : Table 2 Adverse Event Cevimeline 30 mg ( tid ) ( N [ 1 ] = 533 ) Placebo ( tid ) ( N = 164 ) Headache 14 . 4 % 20 . 1 % Sinusitis 12 . 3 % 10 . 9 % Upper Respiratory Tract Infection 11 . 4 % 9 . 1 % Dyspepsia 7 . 8 % 8 . 5 % Abdominal Pain 7 . 6 % 6 . 7 % Urinary Tract Infection 6 . 1 % 3 % Coughing 6 . 1 % 3 % Pharyngitis 5 . 2 % 5 . 4 % Vomiting 4 . 6 % 2 . 4 % Injury 4 . 5 % 2 . 4 % Back Pain 4 . 5 % 4 . 2 % Rash 4 . 3 % 6 % Conjunctivitis 4 . 3 % 3 . 6 % Dizziness 4 . 1 % 7 . 3 % Bronchitis 4 . 1 % 1 . 2 % Arthralgia 3 . 7 % 1 . 8 % Surgical Intervention 3 . 3 % 3 % Fatigue 3 . 3 % 1 . 2 % Pain 3 . 3 % 3 . 0 % Skeletal Pain 2 . 8 % 1 . 8 % Insomnia 2 . 4 % 1 . 2 % Hot Flushes 2 . 4 % 0 % Rigors 1 . 3 % 1 . 2 % Anxiety 1 . 3 % 1 . 2 % [ 1 ] N is the total number of patients exposed to the dose at any time during the study .
The following events were reported in Sjögren ’ s patients at incidences of < 3 % and ≥ 1 % : constipation , tremor , abnormal vision , hypertonia , peripheral edema , chest pain , myalgia , fever , anorexia , eye pain , earache , dry mouth , vertigo , salivary gland pain , pruritus , influenza - like symptoms , eye infection , post - operative pain , vaginitis , skin disorder , depression , hiccup , hyporeflexia , infection , fungal infection , sialoadenitis , otitis media , erythematous rash , pneumonia , edema , salivary gland enlargement , allergy , gastroesophageal reflux , eye abnormality , migraine , tooth disorder , epistaxis , flatulence , toothache , ulcerative stomatitis , anemia , hypoesthesia , cystitis , leg cramps , abscess , eructation , moniliasis , palpitation , increased amylase , xerophthalmia , allergic reaction .
The following events were reported rarely in treated Sjögren ’ s patients ( < 1 % ) : Causal relation is unknown : Body as a Whole Disorders : aggravated allergy , precordial chest pain , abnormal crying , hematoma , leg pain , edema , periorbital edema , activated pain trauma , pallor , changed sensation temperature , weight decrease , weight increase , choking , mouth edema , syncope , malaise , face edema , substernal chest pain Cardiovascular Disorders : abnormal ECG , heart disorder , heart murmur , aggravated hypertension , hypotension , arrhythmia , extrasystoles , t wave inversion , tachycardia , supraventricular tachycardia , angina pectoris , myocardial infarction , pericarditis , pulmonary embolism , peripheral ischemia , superficial phlebitis , purpura , deep thrombophlebitis , vascular disorder , vasculitis , hypertension Digestive Disorders : appendicitis , increased appetite , ulcerative colitis , diverticulitis , duodenitis , dysphagia , enterocolitis , gastric ulcer , gastritis , gastroenteritis , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , gingivitis , glossitis , rectum hemorrhage , hemorrhoids , ileus , irritable bowel syndrome , melena , mucositis , esophageal stricture , esophagitis , oral hemorrhage , peptic ulcer , periodontal destruction , rectal disorder , stomatitis , tenesmus , tongue discoloration , tongue disorder , geographic tongue , tongue ulceration , dental caries Endocrine Disorders : increased glucocorticoids , goiter , hypothyroidism Hematologic Disorders : thrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocythemia , thrombocytopenia , hypochromic anemia , eosinophilia , granulocytopenia , leucopenia , leukocytosis , cervical lymphadenopathy , lymphadenopathy Liver and Biliary System Disorders : cholelithiasis , increased gamma - glutamyl transferase , increased hepatic enzymes , abnormal hepatic function , viral hepatitis , increased serum glutamate oxaloacetic transaminase ( SGOT ) ( also called AST - aspartate aminotransferase ) , increased serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase ( SGPT ) ( also called ALT - alanine aminotransferase ) Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders : dehydration , diabetes mellitus , hypercalcemia , hypercholesterolemia , hyperglycemia , hyperlipemia , hypertriglyceridemia , hyperuricemia , hypoglycemia , hypokalemia , hyponatremia , thirst Musculoskeletal Disorders : arthritis , aggravated arthritis , arthropathy , femoral head avascular necrosis , bone disorder , bursitis , costochondritis , plantar fasciitis , muscle weakness , osteomyelitis , osteoporosis , synovitis , tendinitis , tenosynovitis Neoplasms : basal cell carcinoma , squamous carcinoma Nervous Disorders : carpal tunnel syndrome , coma , abnormal coordination , dysesthesia , dyskinesia , dysphonia , aggravated multiple sclerosis , involuntary muscle contractions , neuralgia , neuropathy , paresthesia , speech disorder , agitation , confusion , depersonalization , aggravated depression , abnormal dreaming , emotional lability , manic reaction , paroniria , somnolence , abnormal thinking , hyperkinesia , hallucination Miscellaneous Disorders : fall , food poisoning , heat stroke , joint dislocation , post - operative hemorrhage Resistance Mechanism Disorders : cellulitis , herpes simplex , herpes zoster , bacterial infection , viral infection , genital moniliasis , sepsis Respiratory Disorders : asthma , bronchospasm , chronic obstructive airway disease , dyspnea , hemoptysis , laryngitis , nasal ulcer , pleural effusion , pleurisy , pulmonary congestion , pulmonary fibrosis , respiratory disorder Rheumatologic Disorders : aggravated rheumatoid arthritis , lupus erythematosus rash , lupus erythematosus syndrome Skin and Appendages Disorders : acne , alopecia , burn , dermatitis , contact dermatitis , lichenoid dermatitis , eczema , furunculosis , hyperkeratosis , lichen planus , nail discoloration , nail disorder , onychia , onychomycosis , paronychia , photosensitivity reaction , rosacea , scleroderma , seborrhea , skin discoloration , dry skin , skin exfoliation , skin hypertrophy , skin ulceration , urticaria , verruca , bullous eruption , cold clammy skin Special Senses Disorders : deafness , decreased hearing , motion sickness , parosmia , taste perversion , blepharitis , cataract , corneal opacity , corneal ulceration , diplopia , glaucoma , anterior chamber eye hemorrhage , keratitis , keratoconjunctivitis , mydriasis , myopia , photopsia , retinal deposits , retinal disorder , scleritis , vitreous detachment , tinnitus Urogenital Disorders : epididymitis , prostatic disorder , abnormal sexual function , amenorrhea , female breast neoplasm , malignant female breast neoplasm , female breast pain , positive cervical smear test , dysmenorrhea , endometrial disorder , intermenstrual bleeding , leukorrhea , menorrhagia , menstrual disorder , ovarian cyst , ovarian disorder , genital pruritus , uterine hemorrhage , vaginal hemorrhage , atrophic vaginitis , albuminuria , bladder discomfort , increased blood urea nitrogen , dysuria , hematuria , micturition disorder , nephrosis , nocturia , increased nonprotein nitrogen , pyelonephritis , renal calculus , abnormal renal function , renal pain , strangury , urethral disorder , abnormal urine , urinary incontinence , decreased urine flow , pyuria In one subject with lupus erythematosus receiving concomitant multiple drug therapy , a highly elevated ALT level was noted after the fourth week of cevimeline therapy .
In two other subjects receiving cevimeline in the clinical trials , very high AST levels were noted .
The significance of these findings is unknown .
Additional adverse events ( relationship unknown ) which occurred in other clinical studies ( patient population different from Sjögren ’ s patients ) are as follows : cholinergic syndrome , blood pressure fluctuation , cardiomegaly , postural hypotension , aphasia , convulsions , abnormal gait , hyperesthesia , paralysis , abnormal sexual function , enlarged abdomen , change in bowel habits , gum hyperplasia , intestinal obstruction , bundle branch block , increased creatine phosphokinase , electrolyte abnormality , glycosuria , gout , hyperkalemia , hyperproteinemia , increased lactic dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , increased alkaline phosphatase , failure to thrive , abnormal platelets , aggressive reaction , amnesia , apathy , delirium , delusion , dementia , illusion , impotence , neurosis , paranoid reaction , personality disorder , hyperhemoglobinemia , apnea , atelectasis , yawning , oliguria , urinary retention , distended vein , lymphocytosis .
The following adverse reaction has been identified during post - approval use of cevimeline .
Because post - marketing adverse reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Post - Marketing Adverse Events Liver and Biliary System Disorders : cholecystitis MANAGEMENT OF OVERDOSE Management of the signs and symptoms of acute overdosage should be handled in a manner consistent with that indicated for other muscarinic agonists : general supportive measures should be instituted .
If medically indicated , atropine , an anti - cholinergic agent , may be of value as an antidote for emergency use in patients who have had an overdose of cevimeline .
If medically indicated , epinephrine may also be of value in the presence of severe cardiovascular depression or bronchoconstriction .
It is not known if cevimeline is dialyzable .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose of cevimeline hydrochloride is 30 mg taken three times a day .
There is insufficient safety information to support doses greater than 30 mg tid .
There is also insufficient evidence for additional efficacy of cevimeline hydrochloride at doses greater than 30 mg tid .
HOW SUPPLIED Cevimeline Hydrochloride Capsules 30 mg capsules is supplied as a white opaque cap and white opaque body with “ 54 190 ” printed on the cap and body , containing a white powder .
NDC 0054 - 0334 - 25 : Bottle of 100 Capsules Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distr .
by : Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 C50000416 / 01 Revised September 2020 Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
