Drug facts Active Ingredients Sulfur 10 % Purpose Acne treatment Uses • For the management of acne • Penetrates pores to control blackheads • Helps prevent new acne blemishes and blackheads from forming Warnings For external use only .
When using this product • Using other topical acne drugs at the same time or right after use of this product may increase dryness or irritation of the skin • If this occurs , only one medication should be used • Apply only to areas with acne Do not use on • Broken skin • Large areas of the skin Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Cleanse the skin thoroughly before applying medication .
• For rinse off treatment , apply to dry skin .
• Leave on for 20 minutes and rinse off thoroughly with water .
• For leave - on , overnight treatment , apply to affected area , and rinse off thoroughly in the morning with water .
• Use 2 - 3 times a week .
• If going outside , use a sunscreen .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application use .
Inactive Ingredients Aqua / Water / Eau , Cetyl Ethyhexanoate , Isoamyl Laurate , Niacinamide , Acacia Senegal Gum , Hydroxyethyl Acrylate / Sodium Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer , Bentonite , Leptospermum Scoparium Brach / Leaf Oil , Olive Oil Glycereth - 8 Esters , Polyglyceryl - 2 Caprate , Zinc PCA , Polysorbate 20 , Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate , Allantoin , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Disodium EDTA , Tocopherols , Denatured Alcohol , Melia Azadirachta Leaf Extract , Amber Powder , Melia Azadirachta Flower Extract , Coccinia Indica Leaf Extract , Ocimum Basilicum ( Basil ) Flower / leaf Extract , Solanum Melongena ( Eggplant ) Fruit Extract , Curcuma Longa ( Turmeric ) Root Extract , Corallina Officinalis Extract , Phenoxyethanol , Caprylyl Glycol , Chlorphenesin , 4 - terpineol .
10 % Sulfur + 4 % Niacinamide + 1 % Zinc Medicated spot treatment mask clears up acne while preventing new blemishes from forming With Key Ingredients Sulfur : Absorbs and dries out excess sebum and clarifies the surface of the skin .
Niacinamide : A derivative of Vitamin B3 which promotes clear skin .
Zinc PCA : Helps to balance oil while providing hydration .
Tea Tree and Manuka Oils : Help to clarify the signs of congested skin .
Bentonite : Clay made from volcanic ash , that cleans pores by absorbing dirt and oil .
Formulated with 10 % sulfur , this acne - fighting spot treatment mask clears up blemishes and targets causes that lead to future breakouts .
High - strength sulfur dries excess ( pore - clogging ) sebum and removes dead skin cells .
Promoting clearer - looking skin , 4 % niacinamide helps boost skin ' s radiance .
Zinc PCA and bentonite help to draw out impurities , reduce excess oil , and soothe the look of surface redness .
Highly potent tea tree oil , standardized for high levels of terpinen - 4 - ol , partnered with manuka oil , purifies the skin , Complexion looks and feels smoother and clearer with each use .
DIRECTIONS : Cleanse skin and apply this spot treatment mask to blemished areas .
Allow the mask to dry thoroughly before removing with warm water .
Can be used several times a week , as needed .
sulfur can be drying .
If you need hydration after use , apply U . F . O . Acne Treatment Face Oil or Tidal Brightening Enzyme Water Cream .
Made in USA of responsibly sourced domestic and foreign ingredients Dist / Par : Sunday Riley Modern Skincare , LLC Houston , TX 77027 USA EU RP : Obelis s . a . , 1030 Brussels , BE www . sundayriley . com Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
