Warnings and Precautions , Fundic Gland Polyps ( 5 . 10 ) 06 / 2018 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are indicated for treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age for up to 12 weeks .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are a proton - pump inhibitor ( PPI ) indicated for the treatment of Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage Regimen ( 2 . 1 ) : The recommended dosage in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age for up to 12 weeks is : • Less than 15 kg : 5 mg once daily with the option to increase to 10 mg once daily , if inadequate response • 15 kg or more : 10 mg once daily Administration Recommendations ( 2 . 2 ) : • Take dose 30 minutes before a meal • Do not swallow the capsule whole • Open a rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsule and sprinkle granule contents on a spoonful of soft food or liquid ( e . g . , applesauce ) .
Food or liquid should be at or below room temperature .
• Do not chew or crush the granules • Take entire dose within 15 minutes of preparation 2 . 1 Dosage Regimen Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are recommended for up to 12 weeks in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age and is dosed by body weight : • Less than 15 kg : 5 mg once daily with the option to increase to 10 mg once daily , if inadequate response .
• 15 kg or more : 10 mg once daily .
2 . 2 Administration Recommendations • Take the dose 30 minutes before a meal .
• Do not swallow the capsule whole .
• Open a capsule and sprinkle entire contents on a small amount of soft food ( e . g . , applesauce , fruit or vegetable based baby food , or yogurt ) or empty contents into a small amount of liquid ( e . g . , infant formula , apple juice , or pediatric electrolyte solution ) .
Food or liquid should be at or below room temperature .
• Do not chew or crush the granules .
• Take the entire dose within 15 minutes of preparation .
• Do not store mixture for future use .
• Take a missed dose as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to the normal schedule .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( sprinkle ) are provided as : • 10 mg : transparent yellow and opaque white No . 2 capsule imprinted with " ↑ " on the capsule cap and " ACX 10 mg " on the capsule body .
Delayed - Release Capsules : 10 mg ( 3 ) .
4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to rabeprazole , substituted benzimidazoles , or to any component of the formulation .
Hypersensitivity reactions may include anaphylaxis , anaphylactic shock , angioedema , bronchospasm , acute interstitial nephritis , and urticaria [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
• PPIs , including rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , are contraindicated with rilpivirine - containing products [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
• Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to rabeprazole ( 4 ) .
• PPIs , including rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , are contraindicated in patients receiving rilpivirine - containing products ( 4 , 7 ) .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Gastric Malignancy : In adults , symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Consider additional follow - up and diagnostic testing ( 5 . 1 ) .
• Use with Warfarin : Monitor for increases in INR and prothrombin time ( 5 . 2 , 7 ) .
• Acute Interstitial Nephritis : Observed in patients taking PPIs ( 5 . 3 ) .
• Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea : PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk ( 5 . 4 ) .
• Bone Fracture : Long - term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis - related fractures of the hip , wrist , or spine ( 5 . 5 ) .
• Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus : Mostly cutaneous ; new onset or exacerbation of existing disease ; discontinue rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and refer to specialist for evaluation ( 5 . 6 ) .
• Cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B - 12 ) Deficiency : Daily long - term use ( e . g . , longer than 3 years ) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin ( 5 . 7 ) .
• Hypomagnesemia : Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs ( 5 . 8 ) .
• Interaction with Methotrexate : Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and / or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and / or its metabolite , possibly leading to toxicity .
With high dose methotrexate administration , consider a temporary withdrawal of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( 5 . 9 , 7 ) .
• Fundic Gland Polyps : Risk increases with long - term use , especially beyond one year .
Use the shortest duration of therapy ( 5 . 10 ) .
5 . 1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy In adults , symptomatic response to therapy with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Consider additional follow - up and diagnostic testing in adult patients who have a suboptimal response or an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI .
In older patients , also consider an endoscopy .
5 . 2 Interaction with Warfarin Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and warfarin have not been adequately evaluated in patients .
There have been reports of increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving a proton pump inhibitor and warfarin concomitantly .
Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death .
Patients treated with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including rabeprazole sodium .
Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction .
Discontinue rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules if acute interstitial nephritis develops [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 4 Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea , especially in hospitalized patients .
This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents .
5 . 5 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies in adults suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis - related fractures of the hip , wrist , or spine .
The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high - dose , defined as multiple daily doses , and long - term PPI therapy ( a year or longer ) .
Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
Patients at risk for osteoporosis - related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are indicated for short - term treatment up to 12 weeks .
Treatment for longer than 12 weeks is not recommended .
5 . 6 Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Cutaneous lupus erythematosus ( CLE ) and systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) have been reported in patients taking PPIs , including rabeprazole .
These events have occurred as both new onset and an exacerbation of existing autoimmune disease .
The majority of PPI - induced lupus erythematosus cases were CLE .
The most common form of CLE reported in patients treated with PPIs was subacute CLE ( SCLE ) and occurred within weeks to years after continuous drug therapy in patients ranging from infants to the elderly .
Generally , histological findings were observed without organ involvement .
Systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) is less commonly reported than CLE in patients receiving PPIs .
PPI associated SLE is usually milder than non - drug induced SLE .
Onset of SLE typically occurred within days to years after initiating treatment primarily in patients ranging from young adults to the elderly .
The majority of patients presented with rash ; however , arthralgia and cytopenia were also reported .
Avoid administration of PPIs for longer than medically indicated .
If signs or symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are noted in patients receiving rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , discontinue the drug and refer the patient to the appropriate specialist for evaluation .
Most patients improve with discontinuation of the PPI alone in 4 to 12 weeks .
Serological testing ( e . g . ANA ) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to resolve than clinical manifestations .
5 . 7 Cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B - 12 ) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid - suppressing medications over a long period of time ( e . g . , longer than 3 years ) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin ( vitamin B - 12 ) caused by hypo - or achlorhydria .
Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid - suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature .
This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed in patients treated with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
5 . 8 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia , symptomatic and asymptomatic , has been reported rarely in adult patients treated with PPIs for at least three months , in most cases after a year of therapy .
Serious adverse events include tetany , arrhythmias , and seizures .
In most patients , treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI .
For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia ( e . g . , diuretics ) , healthcare professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are indicated for short - term treatment of up to 12 weeks .
Treatment for longer than 12 weeks is not recommended .
5 . 9 Interaction with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate ( primarily at high dose ; see methotrexate prescribing information ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and / or its metabolite , possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities .
In high - dose methotrexate administration , a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
5 . 10 Fundic Gland Polyps PPI use is associated with an increased risk of fundic gland polyps that increases with long - term use , especially beyond one year .
Most PPI users who developed fundic gland polyps were asymptomatic and fundic gland polyps were identified incidentally on endoscopy .
Use the shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling : • Acute Interstitial Nephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Bone Fracture [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B - 12 ) Deficiency [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hypomagnesemia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Fundic Gland Polyps [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( > 5 % ) are vomiting , abdominal pain , diarrhea , headache , and nausea ( 6 . 1 ) .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sarras Health , LLC at 888 - 570 - 5004 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The efficacy of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules was established in a two - part , randomized , multicenter , double - blind , parallel - group study of 127 pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age with a history of at least one GERD symptom within the 3 months before screening and a positive esophagogastroduodenoscopy ( EGD ; Hetzel - Dent Endoscopic Classification System , Grade ≥ 1 and Histological Features of Reflux Esophagitis Scale , Grade > 0 ) .
The two - part study consisted of a 12 - week treatment period in patients with endoscopically - proven GERD followed by a 24 - week , double - blinded extension study .
Subjects had a mean age of 6 years ( range : 1 to 11 years ) and 44 % ( 56 / 127 ) were female and 56 % ( 71 / 127 ) were male .
Of the 127 subjects enrolled , 78 % ( 99 / 127 ) were white , 10 % ( 13 / 127 ) were black , and 2 % ( 3 / 127 ) were Asian .
In the study , patients less than 15 kg body weight received either 5 mg or 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and patients 15 kg or greater body weight received 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
In this study , some patients were treated for 36 weeks .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were vomiting , abdominal pain , diarrhea , and nausea .
The most common adverse reactions from the first 12 weeks of treatment are listed in Table 1 .
Table 1 : Common Adverse Reactions * in Pediatric Study ( Ages 1 To 11 Years First 12 Weeks of Treatment ) Adverse Reaction Patients Less than 15 kg Patients 15 kg or greater 5 mg ( N = 21 ) % 10 mg ( N = 19 ) % 10 mg ( N = 44 ) % * incidence of adverse reactions ≥ 9 % Vomiting 10 11 14 Abdominal Pain 0 0 16 Diarrhea 14 21 9 Headache 0 0 9 Nausea 0 0 9 The safety profile was similar for those patients who received treatment for up to 36 weeks .
Adults and Adolescents Experience with Other Rabeprazole Formulations The data described below reflect exposure to rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets in 1064 adult patients exposed for up to 8 weeks .
The studies were primarily placebo - and active - controlled trials in adult patients with Erosive or Ulcerative Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) , Duodenal Ulcers and Gastric Ulcers .
The population had a mean age of 53 years ( range 18 - 89 years ) and had a ratio of approximately 60 % male : 40 % female .
The racial distribution was 86 % Caucasian , 8 % African American , 2 % Asian , and 5 % other .
Most patients received either 10 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg per day of rabeprazole .
An analysis of adverse reactions appearing in ≥ 2 % of rabeprazole - treated patients ( n = 1064 ) and with a greater frequency than placebo ( n = 89 ) in controlled North American and European acute treatment trials , revealed the following adverse reactions : pain ( 3 % vs . 1 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 % vs . 2 % ) , flatulence ( 3 % vs . 1 % ) , infection ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) , and constipation ( 2 % vs . 1 % ) .
Other adverse reactions seen in controlled clinical trials , which do not meet the above criteria ( ≥ 2 % of rabeprazole - treated patients and greater than placebo ) and for which there is a possibility of a causal relationship to rabeprazole , include the following : headache , abdominal pain , diarrhea , dry mouth , dizziness , peripheral edema , hepatic enzyme increase , hepatitis , hepatic encephalopathy , myalgia , and arthralgia .
In a multicenter , open - label study of adolescent patients 12 to 16 years of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD or endoscopically proven GERD , the adverse event profile was similar to that of adults .
The adverse reactions reported without regard to relationship to rabeprazole that occurred in ≥ 2 % of 111 patients were headache ( 9 . 9 % ) , diarrhea ( 4 . 5 % ) , nausea ( 4 . 5 % ) , vomiting ( 3 . 6 % ) , and abdominal pain ( 3 . 6 % ) .
The related reported adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 2 % of patients were headache ( 5 . 4 % ) and nausea ( 1 . 8 % ) .
There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adults .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of rabeprazole sodium .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : agranulocytosis , hemolytic anemia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , and thrombocytopenia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : vertigo Eye Disorders : blurred vision Gastrointestinal Disorders : fundic gland polyps General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : sudden death Hepatobiliary Disorders : jaundice Immune System Disorders : anaphylaxis , angioedema , systemic lupus erythematosus , Stevens - Johnson syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis ( some fatal ) Infections and Infestations : Clostridium difficile - associated diarrhea Investigations : Increases in prothrombin time / INR ( in patients treated with concomitant warfarin ) , TSH elevations Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : hyperammonemia , hypomagnesemia Musculoskeletal System Disorders : bone fracture , rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : coma Psychiatric Disorders : delirium , disorientation Renal and Urinary Disorders : interstitial nephritis Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : interstitial pneumonia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : severe dermatologic reactions , including bullous and other drug eruptions of the skin ; cutaneous lupus erythematosus , erythema multiforme 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 2 includes clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and instructions for preventing or managing them .
Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs .
Table 2 : Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co - Administered with Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed - Release Capsules and Interactions with DiagnosticsAntiretrovirals Clinical Impact : The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable .
The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known .
• Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs ( e . g . , rilpivirine , atazanavir , nelfinavir ) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance • Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs ( e . g . , saquinavir ) when used concomitantly with rabeprazole may increase toxicity .
• There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with rabeprazole .
Intervention : Rilpivirine - containing products : Concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
See prescribing information .
Atazanavir : See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information .
Nelfinavir : Avoid concomitant use with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
See prescribing information for nelfinavir .
Saquinavir : See the prescribing information for saquinavir and monitor for potential saquinavir toxicities .
Other antiretrovirals : See prescribing information .
Warfarin Clinical Impact : Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs , including rabeprazole , and warfarin concomitantly .
Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor INR and prothrombin time .
Dose adjustment of warfarin may be needed to maintain target INR range .
See prescribing information for warfarin .
Methotrexate Clinical Impact : Concomitant use of rabeprazole with methotrexate ( primarily at high dose ) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and / or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate , possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities .
No formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Intervention : A temporary withdrawal of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules may be considered in some patients receiving high - dose methotrexate administration .
Digoxin Clinical Impact : Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention : Monitor digoxin concentrations .
Dose adjustment of digoxin may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations .
See prescribing information for digoxin .
Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption ( e . g . , iron salts , erlotinib , dasatinib , nilotinib , mycophenolate mofetil , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) Clinical Impact : Rabeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity .
Intervention : Mycophenolate mofetil ( MMF ) : Co - administration of PPIs in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite , mycophenolic acid ( MPA ) , possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH . The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and MMF .
Use rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF .
See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption .
Tacrolimus Clinical Impact : Potentially increased exposure of tacrolimus , especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19 .
Intervention : Monitor tacrolimus whole blood trough concentrations .
Dose adjustment of tacrolimus may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations .
See prescribing information for tacrolimus .
Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact : Serum chromogranin A ( CgA ) levels increase secondary to PPI - induced decreases in gastric acidity .
The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors .
Intervention : Temporarily stop rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high .
If serial tests are performed ( e . g . for monitoring ) , the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing , as reference ranges between tests may vary .
Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact : Hyper - response in gastrin secretion in adults in response to secretin stimulation test , falsely suggesting gastrinoma .
Intervention : Temporarily stop treatment with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline .
False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact : There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) in patients receiving PPIs .
Intervention : An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results .
See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions ( 7 ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS Pediatric Use : Use is not recommended for the treatment of GERD in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age ; efficacy not demonstrated ( 8 . 4 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available human data on rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules use in pregnant women to inform the drug associated risk .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are unknown .
However , the background risk in the U . S . general population of major birth defects is 2 - 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 - 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
No evidence of adverse developmental effects were seen in animal reproduction studies with rabeprazole administered during organogenesis at 13 and 8 times the human area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) at the recommended dose for GERD , in rats and rabbits , respectively [ see Data ] .
Changes in bone morphology were observed in offspring of rats treated with oral doses of a different PPI through most of pregnancy and lactation .
When maternal administration was confined to gestation only , there were no effects on bone physeal morphology in the offspring at any age [ see Data ] .
Data Animal Data Embryo - fetal developmental studies have been performed in rats at intravenous doses of rabeprazole during organogenesis up to 50 mg / kg / day ( plasma AUC of 11 . 8 µg • hr / mL , about 13 times the adult human exposure at the recommended oral dose for GERD ) and rabbits at intravenous doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( plasma AUC of 7 . 3 µg • hr / mL , about 8 times the adult human exposure at the recommended oral dose for GERD : 20 mg of rabeprazole delayed - release tablets per day ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to rabeprazole .
Administration of rabeprazole to rats in late gestation and during lactation at an oral dose of 400 mg / kg / day ( about 195 times the adult human oral dose based on mg / m2 ) resulted in decreases in body weight gain of the pups .
A pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity study in rats with additional endpoints to evaluate bone development was performed with a different PPI at about 3 . 4 to 57 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis .
Decreased femur length , width and thickness of cortical bone , decreased thickness of the tibial growth plate , and minimal to mild bone marrow hypocellularity were noted at doses of this PPI equal to or greater than 3 . 4 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis .
Physeal dysplasia in the femur was also observed in offspring after in utero and lactational exposure to the PPI at doses equal to or greater than 33 . 6 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis .
Effects on maternal bone were observed in pregnant and lactating rats in a pre - and postnatal toxicity study when the PPI was administered at oral doses of 3 . 4 to 57 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis .
When rats were dosed from gestational day 7 through weaning on postnatal day 21 , a statistically significant decrease in maternal femur weight of up to 14 % ( as compared to placebo treatment ) was observed at doses equal to or greater than 33 . 6 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis .
A follow - up developmental toxicity study in rats with further time points to evaluate pup bone development from postnatal day 2 to adulthood was performed with a different PPI at oral doses of 280 mg / kg / day ( about 68 times an oral human dose on a body surface area basis ) where drug administration was from either gestational day 7 or gestational day 16 until parturition .
When maternal administration was confined to gestation only , there were no effects on bone physeal morphology in the offspring at any age .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Lactation studies have not been conducted to assess the presence of rabeprazole in human milk , the effects of rabeprazole on the breastfed infant , or the effects of rabeprazole on milk production .
Rabeprazole is present in rat milk .
The development and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use GERD in Pediatric Patients 1 to 11 Years of Age The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for treatment of GERD in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age is supported by a randomized , multicenter , double - blind clinical trial which evaluated two dose levels of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules in 127 pediatric patients with endoscopic and histologic evidence of GERD prior to study treatment .
Dosing was determined by body weight : Patients weighing 6 . 0 to 14 . 9 kg received either 5 or 10 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules daily and those weighing 15 . 0 kg or more received 10 or 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules daily .
After 12 weeks of rabeprazole treatment , 81 % of patients demonstrated esophageal mucosal healing on endoscopic assessment .
In patients who had esophageal mucosal healing at 12 weeks and elected to continue for 24 more weeks of rabeprazole , 90 % retained esophageal mucosal healing at 36 weeks .
No prespecified formal hypothesis testing for evaluation of efficacy was conducted .
The absence of a placebo group does not allow assessment of sustained efficacy through 36 weeks .
There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adolescents or adults .
Symptomatic GERD in Infants 1 to 11 Months of Age The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is not recommended because studies conducted do not demonstrate efficacy for the treatment of GERD in pediatric patients younger than 1 year of age .
In a randomized , multicenter , placebo - controlled withdrawal trial , infants 1 to 11 months of age with a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic GERD , or suspected or endoscopically proven GERD , were treated up to 8 weeks in two treatment periods .
In the first treatment period ( open - label ) , 344 infants received 10 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for up to 3 weeks .
Infants with clinical response were then eligible to enter the second treatment period , which was double - blind and randomized .
Two hundred sixty - eight infants were randomized to receive either placebo or 5 mg or 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
This study did not demonstrate efficacy based on assessment of frequency of regurgitation and weight - for - age Z - score .
Adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 5 % of patients in any treatment group and with a higher rate than placebo included pyrexia ( 7 % ) and increased serum gastrin levels ( 5 % ) .
There were no adverse reactions reported in this study that were not previously observed in adolescents and adults .
Neonates < 1 Month and Preterm Infants < 44 Weeks Corrected Gestational Age The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is not recommended for the treatment of GERD , based on the risk of prolonged acid suppression and lack of demonstrated safety and effectiveness in neonates .
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , the median ( range ) for the apparent clearance ( CL / F ) was 1 . 05 L / h ( 0 . 0543 to 3 . 44 L / h ) in neonates and 4 . 46 L / h ( 0 . 822 to 12 . 4 L / h ) in patients 1 to 11 months of age following once daily administration of oral rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Juvenile Animal Data Studies in juvenile and young adult rats and dogs were performed .
In juvenile animal studies rabeprazole sodium was administered orally to rats for up to 5 weeks and to dogs for up to 13 weeks , each commencing on Day 7 post - partum and followed by a 13 - week recovery period .
Rats were dosed at 5 , 25 , or 150 mg / kg / day and dogs were dosed at 3 , 10 , or 30 mg / kg / day .
The data from these studies were comparable to those reported for young adult animals .
Pharmacologically mediated changes , including increased serum gastrin levels and stomach changes , were observed at all dose levels in both rats and dogs .
These observations were reversible over the 13 - week recovery periods .
Although body weights and / or crown - rump lengths were minimally decreased during dosing , no effects on the development parameters were noted in either juvenile rats or dogs .
When juvenile animals were treated for 28 days with a different PPI at doses equal to or greater than 34 times the daily oral human dose on a body surface area basis , overall growth was affected and treatment - related decreases in body weight ( approximately 14 % ) and body weight gain , and decreases in femur weight and femur length were observed .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use No studies with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules have been conducted in geriatric patients .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are not indicated for use in patients older than 11 years of age .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Administration of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets to adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B , respectively ) resulted in increased exposure and decreased elimination [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
No dosage adjustment of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment .
There is no information in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) .
Avoid use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules in patients with severe hepatic impairment ; however , if treatment is necessary , monitor patients for adverse reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 ) , Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Seven reports of accidental overdosage with rabeprazole have been received .
The maximum reported overdose was 80 mg .
There were no clinical signs or symptoms associated with any reported overdose .
Patients with Zollinger - Ellison syndrome have been treated with up to 120 mg rabeprazole once daily .
No specific antidote for rabeprazole is known .
Rabeprazole is extensively protein bound and is not readily dialyzable .
In the event of overdosage , treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
If over - exposure occurs , call your Poison Control Center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 for current information on the management of poisoning or overdosage .
11 DESCRIPTION The active ingredient in rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is rabeprazole sodium , which is a proton pump inhibitor .
It is a substituted benzimidazole known chemically as 2 - [ [ [ 4 - ( 3 - methoxypropoxy ) - 3 - methyl - 2 - pyridinyl ] - methyl ] sulfinyl ] - 1 H – benzimidazole sodium salt .
It has an empirical formula of C18H20N3NaO3S and a molecular weight of 381 . 42 .
Rabeprazole sodium is a white to slightly yellowish - white solid .
It is very soluble in water and methanol , freely soluble in ethanol , chloroform , and ethyl acetate and insoluble in ether and n - hexane .
The stability of rabeprazole sodium is a function of pH ; it is rapidly degraded in acid media , and is more stable under alkaline conditions .
The structural figure is : Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( sprinkle ) are available for oral administration as 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules containing enteric coated granules .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules contain granules of rabeprazole sodium in a hard hypromellose capsule .
Inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , diacetylated monoglycerides , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose phthalate , magnesium oxide , magnesium stearate , mannitol , talc , titanium dioxide , carrageenan , potassium chloride , FD & C Yellow , No . 6 ( in the 10 mg capsule ) , and gray printing ink .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Rabeprazole belongs to a class of antisecretory compounds ( substituted benzimidazole proton - pump inhibitors ) that do not exhibit anticholinergic or histamine H2 - receptor antagonist properties , but suppress gastric acid secretion by inhibiting the gastric H + , K + ATPase at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cell .
Because this enzyme is regarded as the acid ( proton ) pump within the parietal cell , rabeprazole has been characterized as a gastric proton - pump inhibitor .
Rabeprazole blocks the final step of gastric acid secretion .
In gastric parietal cells , rabeprazole is protonated , accumulates , and is transformed to an active sulfenamide .
When studied in vitro , rabeprazole is chemically activated at pH 1 . 2 with a half - life of 78 seconds .
It inhibits acid transport in porcine gastric vesicles with a half - life of 90 seconds .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption After oral administration to healthy adults of 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( delayed - release capsules opened and granules sprinkled on one tablespoon [ 15 mL ] of applesauce ) under fasting condition , median time ( Tmax ) to peak plasma concentrations ( Cmax ) of rabeprazole was 2 . 5 hours and ranged 1 . 0 to 6 . 5 hours .
The plasma half - life of rabeprazole ranges from 1 to 2 hours .
In healthy adults , a concomitant high fat meal delayed the absorption of rabeprazole from rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( granules sprinkled on one tablespoon ( 15 mL ) of applesauce ) resulting in the median Tmax of 4 . 5 hours and decreased the Cmax and AUClast on average by 55 % and 33 % , respectively [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) ] .
When 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( granules ) administered under fasting conditions to healthy adults on one tablespoon ( 15 mL ) of applesauce , one tablespoon ( 15 mL ) of yogurt , or when mixed with a small amount ( 5 mL ) of liquid infant formula ; the type of soft food did not significantly affect Tmax , Cmax and AUC of rabeprazole .
Distribution Rabeprazole is 96 . 3 % bound to human plasma proteins .
Elimination Metabolism : Rabeprazole is extensively metabolized .
A significant portion of rabeprazole is metabolized via systemic nonenzymatic reduction to a thioether compound .
Rabeprazole is also metabolized to sulphone and desmethyl compounds via cytochrome P450 in the liver .
The thioether and sulphone are the primary metabolites measured in human plasma .
These metabolites were not observed to have significant antisecretory activity .
In vitro studies have demonstrated that rabeprazole is metabolized in the liver primarily by cytochromes P450 3 A ( CYP3A ) to a sulphone metabolite and cytochrome P450 2C19 ( CYP2C19 ) to desmethyl rabeprazole .
CYP2C19 exhibits a known genetic polymorphism due to its deficiency in some sub - populations ( e . g . , 3 to 5 % of Caucasians and 17 to 20 % of Asians ) .
Rabeprazole metabolism is slow in these sub - populations , therefore , they are referred to as poor metabolizers of the drug .
Excretion : Following a single 20 mg oral dose of 14 C - labeled rabeprazole , approximately 90 % of the drug was eliminated in the urine , primarily as thioether carboxylic acid ; its glucuronide , and mercapturic acid metabolites .
The remainder of the dose was recovered in the feces .
Total recovery of radioactivity was 99 . 8 % .
No unchanged rabeprazole was recovered in the urine or feces .
Specific Populations Pediatric Patients : In patients with GERD 1 to 11 years of age , following once daily administration of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules at doses from 0 . 14 to 1 mg / kg , the median time to peak plasma concentration ranged from 2 to 4 hours and the half - life was about 2 . 5 hours .
No appreciable accumulation was noted following 5 days of dosing compared to exposure after a single dose .
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis , over the body weight range from 7 to 77 kg , the apparent rabeprazole clearance increased from 8 . 0 to 13 . 5 L / hr , an increase of 69 % .
The mean estimated total exposure i . e . , AUC after a 10 mg dose of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules in patients with GERD 1 to 11 years of age is comparable to AUC after 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablet in adults .
Male and Female Patients and Racial or Ethnic Groups : In analyses of adult data adjusted for body mass and height , rabeprazole pharmacokinetics showed no clinically significant differences between male and female subjects .
In studies that used different formulations of rabeprazole , AUC0 - ∞ values for healthy Japanese men were approximately 50 to 60 % greater than values derived from pooled data from healthy men in the United States .
Patients with Renal Impairment : In 10 adult patients with stable end - stage renal disease requiring maintenance hemodialysis ( creatinine clearance ≤ 5 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) , no clinically significant differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of rabeprazole after administration of rabeprazole 20 mg delayed - release tablets when compared to 10 healthy adult subjects .
Patients with Hepatic Impairment : In a single dose study of 10 adult patients with chronic mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class A and B , respectively ) who were administered a 20 mg dose of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets , AUC0 - 24 was approximately doubled , the elimination half - life was 2 - to 3 - fold higher , and total body clearance was decreased to less than half compared to values in healthy adult men .
In a multiple dose study of 12 adult patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment administered 20 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets once daily for eight days , AUC0 - ∞ and Cmax values increased approximately 20 % compared to values in healthy age - and gender - matched subjects .
These increases were not statistically significant .
No information exists on rabeprazole disposition in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh Class C ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interaction Studies Effects of Other Drugs on Rabeprazole Antacids : Co - administration of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets and antacids produced no clinically relevant changes in plasma rabeprazole concentrations .
Effects of Rabeprazole on Other Drugs Studies in healthy adult subjects have shown that rabeprazole does not have clinically significant interactions with other drugs metabolized by the CYP450 system , such as theophylline ( CYP1A2 ) given as single oral doses , diazepam ( CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 ) as a single intravenous dose , and phenytoin ( CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 ) given as a single intravenous dose ( with supplemental oral dosing ) .
Steady state interactions of rabeprazole and other drugs metabolized by this enzyme system have not been studied in patients .
Clopidogrel : Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19 .
A study of healthy adult subjects including CYP2C19 extensive and intermediate metabolizers receiving once daily administration of clopidogrel 75 mg concomitantly with placebo or with 20 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets ( n = 36 ) , for 7 days was conducted .
The mean AUC of the active metabolite of clopidogrel was reduced by approximately 12 % ( mean AUC ratio was 88 % , with 90 % CI of 81 . 7 to 95 . 5 % ) when rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets was co - administered compared to administration of clopidogrel with placebo [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Digoxin : In healthy adult subjects ( n = 16 ) , co - administration of 20 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets with 2 . 5 mg once daily doses of digoxin at steady state resulted in approximately 29 % and 19 % increase in mean Cmax and AUC ( 0 - 24 ) of digoxin [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Ketoconazole : In healthy adult subjects ( n = 19 ) , co - administration of 20 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets at steady state with a single 400 mg oral dose ketoconazole resulted in approximately an average of 31 % reduction in both Cmax and AUC ( 0 - inf ) of ketoconazole [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Cyclosporine : In vitro incubations employing human liver microsomes indicated that rabeprazole inhibited cyclosporine metabolism with an IC50 of 62 micromolar , a concentration that is over 50 times higher than the Cmax in healthy volunteers following 14 days of dosing with 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets .
This degree of inhibition is similar to that by omeprazole at equivalent concentrations .
12 . 5 Pharmacogenomics In a clinical study in Japan evaluating rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets in Japanese adult patients categorized by CYP2C19 genotype ( n = 6 per genotype category ) , gastric acid suppression was higher in poor metabolizers as compared to extensive metabolizers .
The clinical relevance of this is not known .
This could be due to higher rabeprazole plasma levels in poor metabolizers .
Whether or not interactions of rabeprazole sodium with other drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 would be different between extensive metabolizers and poor metabolizers has not been studied .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an 88 / 104 - week carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , rabeprazole at oral doses up to 100 mg / kg / day did not produce any increased tumor occurrence .
The highest tested dose produced a systemic exposure to rabeprazole ( AUC ) of 1 . 40 µg • hr / mL which is 1 . 6 times the adult human exposure ( plasma AUC0 - ∞ = 0 . 88 µg • hr / mL ) at the recommended dose for GERD ( 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets per day ) .
In a 28 - week carcinogenicity study in p53 + / - transgenic mice , rabeprazole at oral doses of 20 , 60 , and 200 mg / kg / day did not cause an increase in the incidence rates of tumors but produced gastric mucosal hyperplasia at all doses .
The systemic exposure to rabeprazole at 200 mg / kg / day is about 17 to 24 times the adult human exposure at the recommended dose for GERD ( 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets per day ) .
In a 104 - week carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , males were treated with oral doses of 5 , 15 , 30 , and 60 mg / kg / day and females with 5 , 15 , 30 , 60 , and 120 mg / kg / day .
Rabeprazole produced gastric enterochromaffin - like ( ECL ) cell hyperplasia in male and female rats and ECL cell carcinoid tumors in female rats at all doses including the lowest tested dose .
The lowest dose ( 5 mg / kg / day ) produced a systemic exposure to rabeprazole ( AUC ) of about 0 . 1 µg • hr / mL which is about 0 . 1 times the adult human exposure at the recommended dose for GERD ( 20 mg of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets per day ) .
In male rats , no treatment - related tumors were observed at doses up to 60 mg / kg / day producing a rabeprazole plasma exposure ( AUC ) of about 0 . 2 µg • hr / mL ( 0 . 2 times the adult human exposure at the recommended dose for GERD ) .
Rabeprazole was positive in the Ames test , the Chinese hamster ovary cell ( CHO / HGPRT ) forward gene mutation test , and the mouse lymphoma cell ( L5178Y / TK + / – ) forward gene mutation test .
Its demethylated - metabolite was also positive in the Ames test .
Rabeprazole was negative in the in vitro Chinese hamster lung cell chromosome aberration test , the in vivo mouse micronucleus test , and the in vivo and ex vivo rat hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) tests .
Rabeprazole at intravenous doses up to 30 mg / kg / day ( plasma AUC of 8 . 8 µg • hr / mL , about 10 times the adult human exposure at the recommended dose for GERD ) was found to have no effect on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats .
The recommended dose for GERD in adults is 20 mg per day ( rabeprazole sodium delayed - release tablets ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules in pediatric patients 1 to 11 years of age is supported by a two - part , multicenter , randomized , double - blind , parallel 2 dose arms clinical trial which was conducted in 127 pediatric patients with endoscopic and histologic evidence of GERD prior to study treatment .
Part 1 of the trial was 12 weeks in duration .
Patients were randomized to one of two rabeprazole dose levels based on body weight .
Patients weighing 6 to 14 . 9 kg received either 5 or 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , and those with body weight ≥ 15 kg received 10 mg rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Part 2 was a 24 - week double - blinded extension of Part 1 ( on same dose assigned in Part 1 ) .
Endoscopic evaluations were performed at 12 weeks ( Part 1 ) and 36 weeks ( Part 2 ) to assess esophageal healing .
No prespecified formal hypothesis testing was conducted .
For Part 1 , rates of endoscopic healing were calculated and are shown in Table 3 .
Table 3 : Short - Term ( 12 - Week ) Healing Rates In 1 To 11 Year Old Children ( Part 1 ) Endoscopic Classification of GERD At Baseline Healing Rate at 12 weeks Body Weight Less than 15 kg Body Weight 15 kg or Greater 5 mg dose 10 mg dose 10 mg dose a Hetzel - Dent score ≥ 2 b Hetzel - Dent score = 1 Erosivea 88 % ( 7 / 8 ) 83 % ( 5 / 6 ) 71 % ( 12 / 17 ) Non - erosiveb 78 % ( 7 / 9 ) 100 % ( 10 / 10 ) 81 % ( 17 / 21 ) Of the 87 patients with healing in Part 1 , 64 patients were enrolled into Part 2 .
The absence of a placebo group does not allow assessment of sustained efficacy through 36 weeks .
Of the 52 patients with available data , healing was observed in 47 ( 90 % ) patients at 36 weeks .
The recommended dosage of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules is 5 mg once daily for 12 weeks in patients less than 15 kg with the option to increase to 10 mg once daily if there is an inadequate response .
In patients 15 kg or greater , the recommended dosage is 10 mg once daily for 12 weeks .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ( 10 mg ) ( sprinkle ) are supplied as transparent yellow and opaque white capsules containing enteric coated granules .
Identification and strength ( ACX 10 mg ) are imprinted on the body of the capsule .
An arrow ( ↑ ) imprint on the capsule cap indicates direction for opening a capsule .
Bottles of 30 ( NDC 72834 - 210 - 30 ) Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient or caregiver to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Acute Interstitial Nephritis Advise the patient or caregiver to call the patient ’ s healthcare provider immediately if they experience signs and / or symptoms associated with acute interstitial nephritis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Clostridium difficile - Associated Diarrhea Advise the patient or caregiver to immediately call the patient ’ s healthcare provider if they experience diarrhea that does not improve [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Bone Fracture Advise the patient or caregiver to report any fractures , especially of the hip , wrist or spine , to the patient ’ s healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Cutaneous and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Advise the patient or caregiver to immediately call the patient ’ s healthcare provider for any new or worsening of symptoms associated with cutaneous or systemic lupus erythematosus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] Cyanocobalamin ( Vitamin B - 12 ) Deficiency Advise the patient or caregiver to report any clinical symptoms that may be associated with cyanocobalamin deficiency to the patient ’ s healthcare provider if they have been receiving rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for longer than 3 years [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Hypomagnesemia Advise the patient or caregiver to report any clinical symptoms that may be associated with hypomagnesemia to the patient ’ s healthcare provider , if they have been receiving rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for at least 3 months [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Advise the patient or caregiver to report to the patient ’ s healthcare provider if they are taking rilpilvirine - containing products [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] , warfarin or high - dose methotrexate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 , 5 . 9 ) ] .
Administration • Take the dose 30 minutes before a meal .
• Do not swallow the capsule whole .
• Open the rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsule and sprinkle the granule contents on a small amount of soft food ( e . g . , applesauce , fruit or vegetable based baby food , or yogurt ) or empty contents into a small amount of liquid ( e . g . , infant formula , apple juice , or pediatric electrolyte solution ) .
Food or liquid should be at or below room temperature .
• Do not chew or crush the granules .
• Take the entire dose within 15 minutes of preparation .
• Do not store mixture for future use .
• Take a missed dose as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for the next dose , skip the missed dose and go back to the normal schedule .
Do not take 2 doses at the same time .
Distributed and Marketed by Sarras Health , LLC , Athens , GA 30601 MEDICATION GUIDE Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed Release Capsules ( Sprinkle ) What is the most important information I should know about rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
Your child should take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules exactly as prescribed , at the lowest dose possible and for the shortest time needed .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules may help your child ' s acid - related symptoms , but your child could still have serious stomach problems .
Talk with your child ' s doctor .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules can cause serious side effects , including : • A type of kidney problem ( acute interstitial nephritis ) .
Some people who take proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) medicines , including rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , may develop a kidney problem called acute interstitial nephritis that can happen at any time during treatment with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Call your child ’ s doctor right away if your child has a decrease in the amount that they urinate or if they have blood in their urine .
• Diarrhea caused by an infection ( Clostridium difficile ) in your child ’ s intestines .
Call your child ’ s doctor right away if your child has watery stools or stomach pain that does not go away .
Your child may or may not have a fever .
• Bone fractures ( hip , wrist or spine ) .
Bone fractures in the hip , wrist or spine may happen in people who take multiple daily doses of PPI medicines and for a long period of time ( a year or longer ) .
Tell your child ’ s doctor if your child has a bone fracture , especially in the hip , wrist or spine .
• Certain types of lupus erythematosus .
Lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disorder ( the body ’ s immune cells attack other cells or organs in the body ) .
Some people who take PPI medicines , including rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , may develop certain types of lupus erythematosus or have worsening of the lupus they already have .
Call your child ’ s doctor right away if they have new or worsening joint pain or a rash on their cheeks or arms that gets worse in the sun .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor about your child ’ s risk of serious side effects .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules can have other serious side effects .
See " What are the possible side effects of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ? "
What are rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are a prescription medicine called a proton pump inhibitor ( PPI ) .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules reduce the amount of acid in the stomach .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are used in children 1 year to 11 years of age to treat Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease ( GERD ) for up to 12 weeks .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules are not effective in treating GERD in children under 1 year of age .
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules should not be used to treat GERD in babies younger than 1 month of age .
Your child should not take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules if they are : • allergic to rabeprazole , any other PPI medicine , or any of the ingredients in rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients .
• taking a medicine that contains rilpivirine ( EDURANT , COMPLERA , ODEFSEY ) used to treat HIV - 1 ( Human Immunodeficiency Virus ) .
Before your child takes rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , tell your child ’ s doctor about all of your child ’ s medical conditions , including if they : • have low magnesium levels in their blood .
• have liver problems .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules can harm an unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules passes into breast milk .
Talk to your child ’ s doctor about the best way to feed her baby if she takes rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Tell your child ’ s doctor about all the medicines your child takes , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your child ’ s doctor if your child takes warfarin ( COUMADIN , JANTOVEN ) or methotrexate ( Otrexup , Rasuvo , Trexall , Xatmep ) .
How should my child take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
• Your child should take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules exactly as prescribed .
Your child ’ s doctor will prescribe the dose that is right for your child .
• Your child should take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules 1 time each day .
• Your child should take rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules 30 minutes before a meal .
• Your child should not swallow the rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsule whole .
• Prepare and give a dose of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules to your child as follows : • Open the rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsule in the direction that the arrow ( ↑ ) on the capsule is pointing .
Sprinkle all of the capsule contents onto a small amount of soft food such as applesauce , fruit or vegetable based baby food , or yogurt .
You may also empty all of the capsule contents into a small amount of infant formula , apple juice , or a pediatric electrolyte solution .
The food or liquid that you use should be at or below room temperature .
• Your child should swallow the entire mixture .
They should not chew or crush the granules .
• Your child should take the entire dose within 15 minutes of preparing it .
Do not save it for use later .
• If your child misses a dose of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , they should take it as soon as possible .
If it is almost time for their next dose , they should not take the missed dose .
Your child should take their next dose at their regular time .
They should not take 2 doses at the same time .
• If your child takes too much rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , call your child ’ s doctor or your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 right away , or go to the nearest emergency room .
What are the possible side effects of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
Rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ? "
• Interaction with warfarin .
Taking warfarin with a PPI medicine may lead to an increased risk of bleeding and death .
If your child takes warfarin , their doctor may check their blood to see if they have an increased risk of bleeding .
If your child takes warfarin during treatment with rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules , tell their doctor right away if they have any signs or symptoms of bleeding , including : • • pain , swelling or discomfort • headaches , dizziness , or weakness • unusual bruising ( bruises that happen without known cause or that grow in size ) • nosebleeds • bleeding gums • bleeding from cuts takes a long time to stop • • menstrual bleeding that is heavier than normal • pink or brown urine • red or black stools • coughing up blood • vomiting blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds • Low vitamin B - 12 levels in the body can happen in people who have taken rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for a long time ( more than 3 years ) .
Tell your child ’ s doctor if your child has symptoms of low vitamin B - 12 levels , including shortness of breath , lightheadedness , irregular heartbeat , muscle weakness , pale skin , feeling tired , mood changes , and tingling or numbness in the arms and legs .
• Low magnesium levels in the body can happen in people who have taken rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for at least 3 months .
Tell your child ’ s doctor if your child has symptoms of low magnesium levels , including seizures , dizziness , irregular heartbeat , jitteriness , muscle aches or weakness , and spasms of hands , feet or voice .
• Stomach growths ( fundic gland polyps ) .
People who take PPI medicines for a long time have an increased risk of developing a certain type of stomach growths called fundic gland polyps , especially after taking PPI medicines for more than 1 year .
The most common side effects of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules include : vomiting , stomach - area ( abdomen ) pain , diarrhea , headache , and nausea .
These are not all of the possible side effects of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Call your child ’ s doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
Store rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules in a dry place at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information about the safe and effective use of rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your child ' s doctor or pharmacist for information about rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in rabeprazole sodium delayed - release capsules ?
Active ingredient : rabeprazole sodium Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , diacetylated monoglycerides , ethylcellulose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , hypromellose phthalate , magnesium oxide , magnesium stearate , mannitol , talc , titanium dioxide , carrageenan , potassium chloride , FD & C Yellow , No . 6 ( in the 10 mg capsule ) , and gray printing ink .
Distributed and Marketed by Sarras Health , LLC Athens , GA 30601 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : April 2019 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 10 mg Bottle Label NDC : 72834 - 210 - 30 Rx only Rabeprazole Sodium Delayed Release Capsules ( Sprinkle ) sarras health 10 mg 30 capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
