Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to : • eczema • psoriasis • poison ivy , oak , sumac • insect bites • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with eyes • do not use more than directed unless told to do so by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product unless you have asked a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes : • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : ask a doctor • for external anal and genital itching , adults : • when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before applying • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : ask a doctor Other information • To open : unscrew cap , pull tab to remove foil seal , and screw cap back onto tube • store at room temperature • see carton or tube crimp for lot number and expiration date Inactive ingredients aloe powder , cetearyl alcohol / sodium lauryl sulfate / sodium cetearyl sulfate , citric acid , glycerin , glyceryl monostearate , methylparaben , mineral oil , paraffin wax , propylparaben , purified water , sodium lauryl sulfate , stearyl alcohol Questions ?
Call 1 - 866 - 923 - 4914 DISTRIBUTED BY : fred ' s , Inc . 4300 NEW GETWELL RD , MEMPHIS , TN 38118 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 28 . 4 g Tube Carton fred ' s Pharmacy NDC 55315 - 181 - 56 Compare to the Active Ingredient in Cortizone • 10 ® * MAXIMUM STRENGTH Hydrocortisone Cream 1 % Antipruritic ( Anti - Itch ) Itch and Rash Relief • Eczema & Psoriasis • Seborrheic Dermatitis • Insect Bites & Poison Ivy • External Genital & Anal Itching • Skin Irritation & Rashes With Healing Aloe NET WT 1 oz ( 28 . 4 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
