Active Ingredient ( in each 2 . 7 - mL average delivered dose ) Glycerin 2 . 8 g .................
Hyperosmotic Laxative Use • or relief of occasional constipation • this product generally produes bowel movement in 15 minutes to 1 hour Warnings For rectal use only May cause rectal discomfort or a burning sensation Ask a doctor before using any laxative if you have • abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting • a sudden change in bowel habits lasting more than 2 weeks • already used a laxative for more than 1 week Stop using this product and consult a doctor if you have • rectal bleeding • no bowel movement after use of a laxative These symptoms may indicate a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions Single daily dosage children 2 to under 6 years 1 suppository or as directed by a doctor children under 2 years consult a doctor Left - side position .
Place child on left side with knees bent and arms resting comfortably .
Knee - chest position .
Have child kneel , then lower head and chest forward until left side of face is resting on surface with left arm folded comfortably .
Administering the laxative : CAUTION : REMOVE GREEN PROTECTIVE COVER BEFORE INSERTING .
Hold unit upright , grasping bulb of unit with fingers .
Grasp green protective cover with other hand , twist one revolution and pull green cover off and discard .
With steady pressure , gently insert tip into rectum with a slight side - to - side movement , with tip pointing toward navel .
Discontinue use if resistance is encountered .
Forcing the tip can result in injury .
Insertion may be easier if child receiving suppository bears down as if having a bowel movement .
This helps relax the muscles around the anus .
Squeeze the bulb until nearly all liquid is expelled .
While continuing to squeeze the bulb , remove the tip from the rectum and discard unit .
It is not necessary to empty unit completely .
The unit contains more than the amount of liquid needed for effective use .
A small amount of liquid will remain in the unit after squeezing .
Other Information • Tamper Evident : If the bottle is open do not use Inactive Ingredients edetate disodium , purified water Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 545 - 3635 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
