Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg / day Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 2 mg / day Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg / day Clonidine Transdermal System Formulated to deliver in vivo 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , or 0 . 3 mg clonidine per day , for one week .
Rx only Prescribing Information DESCRIPTION Clonidine Transdermal System is a transdermal system ( patch ) providing continuous systemic delivery of clonidine for 7 days at an approximately constant rate .
Clonidine is a centrally acting alpha - agonist hypotensive agent .
It is an imidazoline derivative with the chemical name 2 , 6 - dichloro - N - 2 - imidazolidinylidenebenzenamine and has the following chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] System Structure and Components : Clonidine Transdermal System is a multi - laminate patch , 0 . 3 mm thick , containing clonidine as the active agent .
The patch surface areas are 10 . 8 cm2 ( Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg / day ) , 21 . 6 cm2 ( Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 2 mg / day ) , and 32 . 4 cm2 ( Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg / day ) .
The composition per unit area is the same for all three doses .
Proceeding from the outer printed backing layer towards the surface applied to the skin , the system comprises : 1 ) a backing layer of polyethylene / aluminum / polyester film ; 2 ) a drug reservoir layer of clonidine , isopropyl palmitate , and amine - compatible silicone adhesive ; 3 ) an ethylene vinyl acetate ( EVA ) membrane that controls the rate of clonidine delivery from the system to the skin ; 4 ) an amine - compatible silicone adhesive layer ( ADHESIVE LAYER B ) ; 5 ) an acrylate adhesive layer ( ADHESIVE LAYER C ) that attaches to the skin ; and 6 ) a protective release liner of siliconized polyester that is removed prior to use .
Cross - sectional view of the Clonidine Transdermal System .
Not to scale .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Release Rate Concept : Clonidine Transdermal System is designed to deliver clonidine through the skin at an approximately constant rate for 7 days .
Saturated clonidine in the reservoir layer provides a concentration gradient between the system and the skin .
Clonidine diffuses from the higher concentration in the system to the lower concentration in the skin .
The rate of delivery from the system is primarily controlled by passage of clonidine through the EVA membrane .
When a patch is applied to the skin ( after removal of the protective release liner ) , clonidine dissolved in adhesive layers B & C is delivered to the skin .
The EVA membrane then becomes the principal factor controlling clonidine delivery from the system by regulating clonidine release from the reservoir .
A constant clonidine driving force is maintained by the drug reservoir layer , which contains a uniform dispersion of clonidine crystals .
Clonidine is delivered through the skin and into the systemic circulation via the capillaries beneath the skin .
Therapeutic plasma clonidine levels are achieved 2 to 3 days after initial application of Clonidine Transdermal System to the skin .
The 10 . 8 , 21 . 6 , and 32 . 4 cm2 systems deliver 0 . 1 , 0 2 , and 0 . 3 mg of clonidine per day , respectively .
To ensure constant release of drug for 7 days , the total drug content of the system is higher than the total amount of drug delivered .
Application of a new system to a fresh skin site at weekly intervals continuously maintains therapeutic plasma concentrations of clonidine .
If the Clonidine Transdermal System is removed and not replaced with a new system , therapeutic plasma clonidine levels will persist for about 8 hours and then decline slowly over several days .
Over this time period , blood pressure returns gradually to pretreatment levels .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Clonidine stimulates alpha - adrenoreceptors in the brain stem .
This action results in reduced sympathetic outflow from the central nervous system and in decreases in peripheral resistance , renal vascular resistance , heart rate , and blood pressure .
Renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate remain essentially unchanged .
Normal postural reflexes are intact ; therefore , orthostatic symptoms are mild and infrequent .
Acute studies with clonidine hydrochloride in humans have demonstrated a moderate reduction ( 15 % - 20 % ) of cardiac output in the supine position with no change in the peripheral resistance ; at a 45 ° tilt there is a smaller reduction in cardiac output and a decrease of peripheral resistance .
During long - term therapy , cardiac output tends to return to control values , while peripheral resistance remains decreased .
Slowing of the pulse rate has been observed in most patients given clonidine , but the drug does not alter normal hemodynamic responses to exercise .
Tolerance to the antihypertensive effect may develop in some patients , necessitating a reevaluation of therapy .
Other studies in patients have provided evidence of a reduction in plasma renin activity and in the excretion of aldosterone and catecholamines .
The exact relationship of these pharmacologic actions to the antihypertensive effect of clonidine has not been fully elucidated .
Clonidine acutely stimulates the release of growth hormone in children as well as adults but does not produce a chronic elevation of growth hormone with long - term use .
Pharmacokinetics : The plasma half - life of clonidine is 12 . 7 ± 7 hours .
Following oral administration , about 40 - 60 % of the absorbed dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged drug within 24 hours .
The remainder of the absorbed dose is metabolized in the liver .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clonidine Transdermal System is indicated in the treatment of hypertension .
It may be employed alone or concomitantly with other antihypertensive agents .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clonidine Transdermal System should not be used in patients with known hypersensitivity to clonidine or to any other component of the transdermal system .
WARNINGS Withdrawal : Patients should be instructed not to discontinue therapy without consulting their physician .
Sudden cessation of clonidine treatment has , in some cases , resulted in symptoms such as nervousness , agitation , headache , and confusion accompanied or followed by a rapid rise in blood pressure and elevated catecholamine concentrations in the plasma .
The likelihood of such reactions to discontinuation of clonidine therapy appears to be greater after administration of higher doses or continuation of concomitant beta - blocker treatment and special caution is therefore advised in these situations .
Rare instances of hypertensive encephalopathy , cerebrovascular accidents and death have been reported after clonidine withdrawal .
When discontinuing therapy with Clonidine Transdermal System , the physician should reduce the dose gradually over 2 to 4 days to avoid withdrawal symptomatology .
An excessive rise in blood pressure following discontinuation of Clonidine Transdermal System therapy can be reversed by administration of oral clonidine hydrochloride or by intravenous phentolamine .
If therapy is to be discontinued in patients receiving a beta - blocker and clonidine concurrently , the beta - blocker should be withdrawn several days before the gradual discontinuation of Clonidine Transdermal System .
PRECAUTIONS General : In patients who have developed localized contact sensitization to Clonidine Transdermal System continuation of Clonidine Transdermal System or substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride therapy may be associated with development of a generalized skin rash .
In patients who develop an allergic reaction to Clonidine Transdermal System , substitution of oral clonidine hydrochloride may also elicit an allergic reaction ( including generalized rash , urticaria , or angioedema ) .
Clonidine Transdermal System should be used with caution in patients with severe coronary insufficiency , conduction disturbances : recent myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , or chronic renal failure .
In rare instances , loss of blood pressure control has been reported in patients using clonidine transdermal systems according to the instructions for use .
Perioperative Use : Clonidine Transdermal System therapy should not be interrupted during the surgical period .
Blood pressure should be carefully monitored during surgery and additional measures to control blood pressure should be available if required .
Physicians considering starting Clonidine Transdermal System therapy during the perioperative period must be aware that therapeutic plasma clonidine levels are not achieved until 2 to 3 days after initial application of Clonidine Transdermal System ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Defibrillation or Cardioversion : The transdermal clonidine systems should be removed before attempting defibrillation or cardioversion because of the potential for altered electrical - conductivity which may increase the risk of arcing , a phenomenon associated with the use of defibrillators .
Information for Patients : Patients should be cautioned against interruption of Clonidine Transdermal System therapy without their physician ' s advice .
Patients who engage in potentially hazardous activities , such as operating machinery or driving , should be advised of a possible sedative effect of clonidine .
They should also be informed that this sedative effect may be increased by concomitant use of alcohol , barbiturates , or other sedating drugs .
Patients should be instructed to consult their physicians promptly about the possible need to remove the patch if they observe moderate to severe localized erythema and / or vesicle formation at the site of application or generalized skin rash .
If a patient experiences isolated , mild localized skin irritation before completing 7 days of use , the system may be removed and replaced with a new system applied to a fresh skin site .
If the system should begin to loosen from the skin after application , the patient should be instructed to place the adhesive cover directly over the system to ensure adhesion during its 7 - day use .
Used Clonidine Transdermal System patches contain a substantial amount of their initial drug content which may be harmful to infants and children if accidentally applied or ingested .
THEREFORE , PATIENTS SHOULD BE CAUTIONED TO KEEP BOTH USED AND UNUSED CLONIDINE TRANSDERMAL SYSTEM PATCHES OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
After use , Clonidine Transdermal System should be folded in half with the adhesive sides together and discarded away from children ' s reach .
Instructions for use , storage and disposal of the system are provided at the end of this monograph .
These instructions are also included in each box of Clonidine Transdermal System .
Drug Interactions : Clonidine may potentiate the CNS - depressive effects of alcohol , barbiturates or other sedating drugs .
If a patient receiving clonidine is also taking tricyclic antidepressants , the hypotensive effect of clonidine may be reduced , necessitating an increase in the clonidine dose .
Due to a potential for additive effects such as bradycardia and AV block , caution is warranted in patients receiving clonidine concomitantly with agents known to affect sinus node function or AV nodal conduction e . g . , digitalis , calcium channel blockers and beta - blockers .
Amitriptyline in combination with clonidine enhances the manifestation of corneal lesions in rats ( See Toxicology ) .
Toxicology : In several studies with oral clonidine hydrochloride , a dose - dependent increase in the incidence and severity of spontaneous retinal degeneration was seen in albino rats treated for six months or longer .
Tissue distribution studies in dogs and monkeys showed a concentration of clonidine in the choroid .
In view of the retinal degeneration seen in rats , eye examinations were performed during clinical trials in 908 patients before , and periodically after , the start of clonidine therapy .
In 353 of these 908 patients , the eye examinations were carried out over periods of 24 months or longer .
Except for some dryness of the eyes , no drug - related abnormal ophthalmological findings were recorded and , according to specialized tests such as electroretinography and macular dazzle , retinal function was unchanged .
In combination with amitriptyline , clonidine hydrochloride administration led to the development of corneal lesions in rats within 5 days .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Chronic dietary administration of clonidine was not carcinogenic to rats ( 132 weeks ) or mice ( 78 weeks ) dosed , respectively , at up to 46 to 70 times the maximum recommended daily human dose as mg / kg ( 9 or 6 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in the AMES test for mutagenicity or mouse micronucleus test for clastogenicity .
Fertility of male and female rats was unaffected by clonidine doses as high as 150 mcg / kg ( approximately 3 times the MRDHD ) .
In a separate experiment , fertility of female rats appeared to be affected at dose levels of 500 to 2000 mcg / kg ( 10 to 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 2 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Pregnancy : TERATOGENIC EFFECTS Pregnancy Category C Reproduction studies performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 3 times the oral maximum recommended daily human dose ( MRDHD ) of clonidine hydrochloride produced no evidence of a teratogenic or embryotoxic potential in rabbits .
In rats , however , doses as low as 1 / 3 the oral MRDHD ( 1 / 15 the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) of clonidine were associated with increased resorptions in a study in which dams were treated continuously from 2 months prior to mating .
Increased resorptions were not associated with treatment at the same time or at higher dose levels ( up to 3 times the oral MRDHD ) when the dams were treated on gestation days 6 - 15 .
Increases in resorption were observed at much higher dose levels ( 40 times the oral MRDHD on a mg / kg basis ; 4 to 8 times the MRDHD on a mg / m2 basis ) in mice and rats treated on gestation days 1 - 14 ( lowest dose employed in the study was 500 mcg / kg ) .
No adequate well - controlled studies have been conducted in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers : As clonidine is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Clonidine Transdermal System is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of twelve have not been established ( See WARNINGS on Withdrawal ) .
MRI : Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during a magnetic resonance imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because the Clonidine Transdermal Patch contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trial experience with transdermal systems containing clonidine : Most systemic adverse effects during transdermal system therapy containing clonidine have been mild and have tended to diminish with continued therapy .
In a 3 - month multiclinic trial of clonidine transdermal therapy in 101 hypertensive patients , the systemic adverse reactions were , dry mouth ( 25 patients ) and drowsiness ( 12 ) , fatigue ( 6 ) , headache ( 5 ) , lethargy and sedation ( 3 each ) , insomnia , dizziness , impotence / sexual dysfunction , dry throat ( 2 each ) and constipation , nausea , change in taste and nervousness ( 1 each ) .
In the above mentioned 3 - month controlled clinical trial , as well as other uncontrolled clinical trials , the most frequent adverse reactions were dermatological and are described below .
In the 3 - month trial , 51 of the 101 patients had localized skin reactions such as erythema ( 26 patients ) and / or pruritus , particularly after using an adhesive cover throughout the 7 - day dosage interval .
Allergic contact sensitization to clonidine transdermal therapy was observed in 5 patients .
Other skin reactions were localized vesiculation ( 7 patients ) , hyperpigmentation ( 5 ) , edema ( 3 ) , excoriation ( 3 ) , burning ( 3 ) , papules ( 1 ) , throbbing ( 1 ) , blanching ( 1 ) , and a generalized macular rash ( 1 ) .
In additional clinical experience , contact dermatitis resulting in treatment discontinuation was observed in 128 of 673 patients ( about 19 in 100 ) after a mean duration of treatment of 37 weeks .
The incidence of contact dermatitis was about 34 in 100 among white women , about 18 in 100 in white men , about 14 in 100 in black women , and approximately 8 in 100 in black men .
Analysis of skin reaction data showed that the risk of having to discontinue clonidine transdermal treatment because of contact dermatitis was greatest between treatment weeks 6 and 26 , although sensitivity may develop either earlier or later in treatment .
In a large - scale clinical acceptability and safety study by 451 physicians in a total of 3539 patients , other allergic reactions were recorded for which a causal relationship to clonidine transdermal treatment was not established : maculopapular rash ( 10 cases ) ; urticaria ( 2 cases ) ; and angioedema of the face ( 2 cases ) , which also affected the tongue in one of the patients .
Marketing Experience with transdermal systems containing clonidine : Other adverse effects reported since the drug has been marketed are listed below by body system .
In this setting , an incidence or causal relationship cannot always be accurately determined .
However , none of the events listed below occurred in a frequency greater than 0 . 5 % .
Body as a Whole : Fever ; malaise ; weakness ; and pallor , and withdrawal syndrome .
Cardiovascular : Congestive heart failure ; cerebrovascular accident ; electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , bradycardia , sick sinus syndrome disturbances and arrhythmias ) ; chest pain ; orthostatic symptoms ; syncope ; increases in blood pressure ; sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block with and without the use of concomitant digitalis ; Raynaud ' s phenomenon ; tachycardia ; bradycardia ; and palpitations .
Central and Peripheral Nervous System / Psychiatric : Delirium ; mental depression ; visual and auditory hallucinations ; localized numbness ; vivid dreams or nightmares ; restlessness ; anxiety ; agitation ; irritability ; other behavioral changes ; and drowsiness .
DermatologicaI : Angioneurotic edema ; localized or generalized rash ; hives ; urticaria ; contact dermatitis ; pruritus ; alopecia ; and localized hypo or hyperpigmentation .
Gastrointestinal : Anorexia and vomiting .
Genitourinary : Difficult micturition ; loss of libido ; and decreased sexual activity .
Metabolic : Gynecomastia or breast enlargement and weight gain .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle or joint pain , and leg cramps .
Ophthalmological : Blurred vision ; burning of the eyes and dryness of the eyes .
Adverse Events Associated with Oral Clonidine Therapy : Most adverse effects are mild and tend to diminish with continued therapy .
The most frequent ( which appear to be dose - related ) are dry mouth , occurring in about 40 of 100 patients ; drowsiness , about 33 in 100 ; dizziness , about 16 in 100 ; constipation and sedation , each about 10 in 100 .
The following less frequent adverse experiences have also been reported in patients receiving clonidine hydrochloride USP , but in many cases patients were receiving concomitant medication and a causal relationship has not been established .
Body as a Whole : Weakness , about 10 in 100 patients ; fatigue , about 4 in 100 ; headache and withdrawal syndrome each about 1 in 100 .
Also reported were pallor ; a weakly positive Coombs ' test ; increased sensitivity to alcohol ; and fever .
Cardiovascular : Orthostatic symptoms , about 3 in 100 patients ; palpitations and tachycardia , and bradycardia , each about 5 in 1000 .
Syncope , Raynaud ' s phenomenon , congestive heart failure , and electrocardiographic abnormalities ( i . e . , sinus node arrest , functional bradycardia , high degree AV block and arrhythmias ) have been reported rarely .
Rare cases of sinus bradycardia and AV block have been reported , both with and without the use of concomitant digitalis .
Central Nervous System : Nervousness and agitation , about 3 in 100 patients ; mental depression , about 1 in 100 and insomnia , about 5 in 1000 .
Other behavioral changes , vivid dreams or nightmares , restlessness , anxiety , visual and auditory hallucinations and delirium have rarely been reported .
Dermatological : Rash , about 1 in 100 patients ; pruritus , about 7 in 1000 ; hives , angioneurotic edema and urticaria , about 5 in 1000 ; alopecia , about 2 in 1000 .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and vomiting , about 5 in 100 patients ; anorexia and malaise : each about 1 in 100 ; mild transient abnormalities in liver function tests , about 1 in 100 ; hepatitis , parotitis , constipation , pseudo - obstruction , and abdominal pain , rarely .
Genitourinary : Decreased sexual activity , impotence and loss of libido , about 3 in 100 patients ; nocturia , about 1 in 100 ; difficulty in micturition , about 2 in 1000 ; urinary retention , about 1 in 1000 .
Hematologic : Thrombocytopenia , rarely .
Metabolic : Weight gain , about 1 in 100 patients ; gynecomastia , about 1 in 1000 ; transient elevation of blood glucose or serum creatine phosphokinase , rarely .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle or joint pain , about 6 in 1000 and leg cramps , about 3 in 1000 .
Oro - otolaryngeal : Dryness of the nasal mucosa was rarely reported .
Ophthalmological : Dryness of the eyes , burning of the eyes and blurred vision were reported .
OVERDOSAGE Hypertension may develop early and may be followed by hypotension , bradycardia , respiratory depression , hypothermia , drowsiness , decreased or absent reflexes , weakness , irritability and miosis .
The frequency of CNS depression may be higher in children than adults .
Large overdoses may result in reversible cardiac conduction defects or dysrhythmias , apnea , coma and seizures .
Signs and symptoms of overdose generally occur within 30 minutes to two hours after exposure .
As little as 0 . 1 mg of clonidine has produced signs of toxicity in children .
If symptoms of poisoning occur following dermal exposure , remove all Clonidine Transdermal Systems .
After their removal , the plasma clonidine levels will persist for about 8 hours , then decline slowly over a period of several days .
Rare cases of clonidine transdermal system poisoning due to accidental or deliberate mouthing or ingestion of the patch have been reported , many of them involving children .
There is no specific antidote for clonidine overdosage .
Ipecac syrup - induced vomiting and gastric lavage would not be expected to remove significant amounts of clonidine following dermal exposure .
If the patch is ingested , whole bowel irrigation may be considered and the administration of activated charcoal and / or cathartic may be beneficial .
Supportive care may include atropine sulfate for bradycardia , intravenous fluids and / or vasopressor agents for hypotension and vasodilators for hypertension .
Naloxone may be a useful adjunct for the management of clonidine - induced respiratory depression , hypotension and / or coma ; blood pressure should be monitored since the administration of naloxone has occasionally resulted in paradoxical hypertension .
Tolazoline administration has yielded inconsistent results and is not recommended as first - line therapy .
Dialysis is not likely to significantly enhance the elimination of clonidine .
The largest overdose reported to date , involved a 28 - year - old male who ingested 100 mg of clonidine hydrochloride powder .
This patient developed hypertension followed by hypotension , bradycardia , apnea , hallucinations , semi - coma , and premature ventricular contractions .
The patient fully recovered after intensive treatment .
Plasma clonidine levels were 60 ng / mL after 1 hour , 190 ng / mL after 1 . 5 hours , 370 ng / mL after 2 hours , and 120 ng / mL after 5 . 5 and 6 . 5 hours .
In mice and rats , the oral LD50 of clonidine is 206 and 465 mg / kg , respectively .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply Clonidine Transdermal Systems once every 7 days to a hairless area of intact skin on the upper outer arm or chest .
Each new application of Clonidine Transdermal System should be on a different skin site from the previous location .
If the system loosens during 7 - day wearing , the adhesive cover should be applied directly over the system to ensure good adhesion .
There have been rare reports of the need for patch changes prior to 7 days to maintain blood pressure control .
To initiate therapy , Clonidine Transdermal System dosage should be titrated according to individual therapeutic requirements , starting with Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg .
If after one or two weeks the desired reduction in blood pressure is not achieved , increase the dosage by adding another Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg or changing to a larger system .
An increase in dosage above two Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg is usually not associated with additional efficacy .
When substituting Clonidine Transdermal System for oral clonidine or for other antihypertensive drugs , physicians should be aware that the antihypertensive effect of Clonidine Transdermal System may not commence until 2 - 3 days after initial application .
Therefore , gradual reduction of prior drug dosage is advised .
Some or all previous antihypertensive treatment may have to be continued , particularly in patients with more severe forms of hypertension .
Renal Impairment : Dosage must be adjusted according to the degree of impairment , and patients should be carefully monitored .
Since only a minimal amount of clonidine is removed during routine hemodialysis , there is no need to give supplemental clonidine following dialysis .
HOW SUPPLIED Clonidine Transdermal Systems 0 . 1 mg , Clonidine Transdermal Systems 0 . 2 mg , and Clonidine Transdermal Systems 0 . 3 mg are supplied as 4 pouched systems and 4 adhesive covers per carton .
* Delivery Clonidine in vivo Per Day Over 1 Week Clonidine Content Size Code NDC Numbers Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg 3 . 67 mg 10 . 8 cm2 Clonidine 0 . 1 mg 54868 - 6310 - 0 Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 2 mg 7 . 34 mg 21 . 6 cm2 Clonidine 0 . 2 mg 54868 - 6214 - 0 Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg 11 . 02 mg 32 . 4 cm2 Clonidine 0 . 3 mg 54868 - 6260 - 0 STORAGE AND HANDLING Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] Manufactured by : AVEVA Drug Delivery Systems A Nitto Denko Company Miramar , FL 33025 Manufactured for : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES , INC .
Spring Valley , NY 10977 3001690 OS774 - 86 - 1 - 06 Rev . 11 / 08 Relabeling of additional barcode by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 ( Read the following instructions carefully before using this medication .
If you have any questions , please consult with your doctor ) .
General Information Clonidine Transdermal System is a tan colored , oval shaped adhesive PATCH containing an active blood - pressure - lowering medication .
It is designed to deliver the drug into the body through the skin smoothly and consistently for one full week .
Normal exposure to water , as in showering , bathing , and swimming , should not affect the PATCH .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] The optional white , oval shaped , ADHESIVE COVER should be applied directly over the PATCH , should the PATCH begin to separate from the skin .
The ADHESIVE COVER ensures that the PATCH sticks to the skin .
The Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH must be replaced with a new one on a fresh skin site if the one in use significantly loosens or falls off .
Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal system during a magnetic resonance imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because the Clonidine Transdermal Patch contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
How to Apply the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH • Apply the tan colored , oval shaped Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH once a week , preferably at a convenient time on the same day of the week ( i . e . , prior to bedtime on Tuesday of week one ; prior to bedtime on Tuesday of week two , etc . ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Select a hairless area such as on the upper , outer arm or upper chest .
The area chosen should be free of cuts , abrasions , irritation , scars or calluses and should not be shaved before applying the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH .
Do not place the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH on skin folds or under tight undergarments , since premature loosening may occur .
• Wash hands with soap and water and thoroughly dry them .
• Clean the area chosen with soap and water .
Rinse and wipe dry with a clean , dry tissue .
• Select the pouch labeled Clonidine Transdermal System and open it as illustrated in Figure 3 .
Remove the tan colored , oval shaped PATCH from the pouch .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the white translucent plastic protective liner from the PATCH by gently peeling off one half of the liner at a time as shown in Figure 4 .
Avoid touching the sticky side of the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Place the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH on the prepared skin site ( sticky side down ) by applying firm pressure over the PATCH to ensure good contact with the skin , especially around the edges ( Figure 5 ) .
Discard the white translucent plastic protective liner and wash your hands with soap and water to remove any drug from your hands .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • After one week , remove the old PATCH and discard it ( refer to Instructions for Disposal ) .
After choosing a different skin site , repeat instructions 2 through 7 for the application of your next Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH .
What to do if your Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH becomes loose while wearing : How to Apply the ADHESIVE COVER Note : The white , oval shaped ADHESIVE COVER does not contain any drug and should not be used alone .
The cover should be applied directly over the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH only if the PATCH begins to separate from the skin , thereby ensuring that it sticks to the skin for seven full days .
• Wash hands with soap and water and thoroughly dry them .
• Using a clean , dry tissue , make sure that the area around the oval shaped , tan Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH is clean and dry .
Press gently on the Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH to ensure that the edges are in good contact with the skin .
• Take the white , oval shaped , ADHESIVE COVER ( Figure 6 ) from the plain white pouch and remove the paper liner backing from the cover .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Carefully center the white , oval shaped ADHESIVE COVER over the tan oval shaped , Clonidine Transdermal System PATCH and apply firm pressure , especially around the edges in contact with the skin .
Instructions for Disposal KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN During or even after use , a PATCH contains active medication which may be harmful to infants and children if accidentally applied or ingested .
After use , fold in half with the sticky sides together .
Dispose of carefully out of reach of children .
Mfd by : AVEVA Drug Delivery Systems , A Nitto Denko Company , Miramar , FL 33025 Mfd for : PAR PHARMACEUTICAL COS , INC . , Spring Valley , NY 10977 3001690 PI774 - 86 - 1 - 06 Rev . 11 / 08 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label 0 . 1 mg NDC 54868 - 6310 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 1 mg / day Rx only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers 0 . 1 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label 0 . 2 mg NDC 54868 - 6214 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 2 mg / day Rx only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers 0 . 2 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] Carton Label 0 . 3 mg NDC 54868 - 6260 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clonidine Transdermal System 0 . 3 mg / day Rx only 4 Systems and 4 Adhesive Covers 0 . 3 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ]
