WARNING : If you are pregnant , nursing or taking medication , consult your doctor before use .
Accidental overdose of iron containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately .
DESCRIPTION NEONATAL 19 is a prescription prenatal vitamin with folic acid .
Other vitamins and minerals for nutritional supplementation NEONATAL 19 is a small , round , tablet Each tablet contains : Vitamin C ( Ascorbic Acid ) 100 mg Vitamin B1 ( Thiamine ) 1 . 5 mg Vitamin B2 ( Riboflavin ) 1 . 7 mg Vitamin B3 ( Niacinamide ) 20 mg Vitamin B6 ( Pyridoxine HCl ) 10 mg Folic Acid 1000 mcg Vitamin B12 ( Cyanocobalamin ) 6 mcg Biotin 150 mcg Pantothenic Acid 5 mg Inactive ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Di Calcium Phosphate , Stearic Acid , Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , Silicon Dioxide , Opadry II Yellow ( color ) .
INDICATIONS NEONATAL 19 is a multi - vitamin / mineral prescription drug indicated for use in improving the nutritional status of women prior to conception , throughout pregnancy , and in the postnatal period for both lactating and nonlactating mothers .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
WARNING Accidental overdose of iron - containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6 .
KEEP THIS PRODUCT OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
In case of accidental overdose , call a doctor or poison control center immediately .
PRECAUTIONS Folic Acid Folic acid in doses above 0 . 1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive .
Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using these products since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Dosing for elderly patients should be cautious .
Due to the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy , dosing should start at the lower end of the dosing range .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions with iron therapy may include GI irritation , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and dark stools .
Adverse reactions with iron therapy are usually transient .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
DRUG INTERACTIONS Prescriber should be aware of a number of iron / drug interactions , including antacids , tetracyclines , or fluoroquinolones .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms : abdominal pain , metabolic acidosis , anuria , CNS damage , coma , convulsions , death , dehydration , diffuse vascular congestion , hepatic cirrohosis , hypotension , hypothermia , lethargy , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , tarry stools , melena , hematemesis , tachycardia , hyperglycemia , drowsiness , pallor , cyanosis , lassitude , seizures , and shock .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION One tablet daily or as directed by a physician .
NOTICE Contact with moisture can discolor or erode the tablet .
Do not chew tablet .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 66 ° - 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from heat , light and moisture .
HOW SUPPLIED Bottles of 100 tablets each - NDC 73317 - 8242 - 1 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call ( 866 ) - 760 - 6565 Call your licensed medical practitioner about side effect .
You may report side effects by calling AUM 866 - 760 - 6565 .
Distributed by : AUM Pharmaceuticals Hauppauge , NY 11788 .
Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
