Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Oxybenzone 6 % Purpose Sunscreen Use • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Flammable : Do not use near heat , flame , or while smoking .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center Right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : • after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating • immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • avoid long term storage above 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) Inactive ingredients alcohol denat . , acrylates / octylacrylamide copolymer , glycerin , Aloe barbadensis leaf extract , fragrance , Cocos nucifera ( coconut ) oil , mineral oil May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces * This product is not manufactured or distributed by Bayer , distributor of Coppertone Kids Sunscreen Continuous Spray Broad Spectrum SPF 50 .
Distributed by Foodhold USA , LLC Landover , MI 20785 1 - 877 - 848 - 9949 ( c ) 2018 S & S Brands , LLC Quality guaranteed or your money back 727 . 000 / 727 AA principal display panel Care One * Compare to Coppertone Kids Sunscreen Continuous spray SPF 50 Kids sunscreen continuous spray SPF 50 UVA / UVB protection Broad Spectrum SPF 50 • Water Resistant ( 80 minutes ) NET WT 5 . 5 OZ ( 156 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
