Active ingredient : DIMETHICONE 4 . 50 % Inactive ingredients : Water , Argania Spinosa Kernel Oil , Squalane , Simmondsia Chinensis ( Jojoba ) Seed Oil , Butyrospermum Parkii ( Shea Butter ) , Beeswax , Cethyl Ethylhexanoate ( CEH ) , Olea Europaea ( Olive ) Fruit Oil , Butylene Glycol , Macadamis Ternifolia Seed Oil , Glycerin , Limnanthes Alba ( Meadowfoam ) Seed Oil , Hydrolyzed Pea Protein , Lecithin , Phytosterols , Stearyl Alcohol , Polysorbate 60 , Hydrogenated Coconut Oil , Tocopheryl Acetate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice Powder , Glyceryl Stearate , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Oil , Stearic Acid , Bisabolol , Triethanolamine , Sorbitan Sesquiolate , Phenoxyethanol , Carbomer , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Sericin , Aesculus Hippocastanum ( Horse Chestnut ) Seed Extract , Methyl Paraben , Chaenomeles Sinensis Fruit Extract , Allantoin , Ceramide3 , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride , Disodium EDTA , Xanthan Gum , Tourmaline , Aluminum Silicate , Topaz , Amethyst Powder , Zeolite , Sodium Hyaluronate , Sea Water , Butylated Hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) , Flavor Purpose : Skin Protectant Warnings : In case of having following symptoms after using this , you ' re advised to stop using it immediately .
If you keep using it , the symptoms will get worse and need to consult a dermatologist .
- In case of having problems such as red rash , swollenness , itching , stimulation during usage .
- In case of having the same symptoms above on the part you put this product on by direct sunlight .
You are banned to use it on the part where you have a scar , eczema , or dermatitis .
In case of getting it into your eyes , you have to wash it immediately .
Keep out of reach of children : Keep out of reach of babies and children .
Indications and usage : Tighten the lid after using it .
Do n't keep it in the place where the temperature is extremely hot or low and exposed to the direct sunlight .
Use it in the evening after washing face .
Dosage and administration : Apply after washing face .
Take a small amount of cream about 1 . 0 g - 1 . 5 g onto the fingertips and gently massage over the entire face .
( cheeks , nostrils , mouth corners , forehead , and the around of eyes , even your hands ) Blot face lightly with tissue , and may sleep without washing it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
