WARNING : QT PROLONGATION WARNING : QT PROLONGATION Toremifene citrate has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose - and concentration - related manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Prolongation of the QT interval can result in a type of ventricular tachycardia called Torsade de pointes , which may result in syncope , seizure , and / or death .
Toremifene should not be prescribed to patients with congenital / acquired QT prolongation , uncorrected hypokalemia or uncorrected hypomagnesemia .
Drugs known to prolong the QT interval and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : QT PROLONGATION Toremifene citrate has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose - and concentration - related manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Prolongation of the QT interval can result in a type of ventricular tachycardia called Torsade de pointes , which may result in syncope , seizure , and / or death .
Toremifene should not be prescribed to patients with congenital / acquired QT prolongation , uncorrected hypokalemia or uncorrected hypomagnesemia .
Drugs known to prolong the QT interval and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors should be avoided [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Toremifene citrate tablets are estrogen agonist / antagonist indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women with estrogen - receptor positive or unknown tumors .
Toremifene citrate tablets are estrogen agonist / antagonist indicated for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women with estrogen - receptor positive or unknown tumors .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of toremifene citrate tablets are 60 mg , once daily , orally .
Treatment is generally continued until disease progression is observed .
• 60 mg once daily , orally ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tablet is 60 mg , white to off white colored , round shaped , uncoated tablets , debossed with “ MT ” on one side and plain on other side and free from physical defects .
• 60 mg tablet is white to off white colored , round shaped , uncoated tablets , debossed with “ MT ” on one side and plain on other side .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Hypersensitivity to the drug ( 4 . 1 ) • QT Prolongation , Hypokalemia , Hypomagnesemia ( 4 . 2 ) 4 . 1 Hypersensitivity to the Drug Toremifene citrate is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
4 . 2 QT Prolongation , Hypokalemia , Hypomagnesemia Toremifene should not be prescribed to patients with congenital / acquired QT prolongation ( long QT syndrome ) , uncorrected hypokalemia , or uncorrected hypomagnesemia .
5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Prolongation of the QT Interval ( 5 . 1 ) • Heptatotoxicty ( 5 . 2 ) • Hypercalcemia and Tumor Flare ( 5 . 3 ) • Risk of Uterine Malignancy ( 5 . 4 ) • General ( 5 . 5 ) • Laboratory Tests ( 5 . 6 ) • Pregnancy : Fetal harm may occur when administered to a pregnant woman .
Women should be advised not to become pregnant when taking toremifene citrate .
( 5 . 7 , 8 . 1 ) • Women of Childbearing Potential : Use effective nonhormonal contraception during toremifene citrate therapy .
( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Prolongation of the QT Interval Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose - and concentration - related manner [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Prolongation of the QT interval can result in a type of ventricular tachycardia called Torsade de pointes , which may result in syncope , seizure , and / or death .
Toremifene should be avoided in patients with long QT syndrome .
Caution should be exercised in patients with congestive heart failure , hepatic impairment and electrolyte abnormalities .
Hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia must be corrected prior to initiating toremifene and these electrolytes should be monitored periodically during therapy .
Drugs that prolong the QT interval should be avoided .
In patients at increased risk , electrocardiograms ( ECGs ) should be obtained at baseline and as clinically indicated [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hepatotoxicity Hepatotoxicity , both increases in the serum concentration for grade 3 and 4 transaminitis and hyperbilirubinemia , including jaundice , hepatitis , and non - alcoholic fatty liver disease , have also been reported in clinical trials and postmarketing with toremifene citrate .
Liver function tests should be performed periodically .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Post - marketing Experience ( 6 . 2 ) ] 5 . 3 Hypercalcemia and Tumor Flare As with other antiestrogens , hypercalcemia and tumor flare have been reported in some breast cancer patients with bone metastases during the first weeks of treatment with toremifene citrate .
Tumor flare is a syndrome of diffuse musculoskeletal pain and erythema with increased size of tumor lesions that later regress .
It is often accompanied by hypercalcemia .
Tumor flare does not imply failure of treatment or represent tumor progression .
If hypercalcemia occurs , appropriate measures should be instituted and , if hypercalcemia is severe , toremifene citrate treatment should be discontinued .
5 . 4 Risk of Uterine Malignancy Endometrial cancer , endometrial hypertrophy , hyperplasia , and uterine polyps have been reported in some patients treated with toremifene citrate .
Endometrial hyperplasia of the uterus was observed in animals treated with toremifene [ see Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13 . 1 ) ] .
Long - term use of toremifene citrate has not been established in patients with pre - existing endometrial hyperplasia .
All patients should have baseline and annual gynecological examinations .
In particular , patients at high risk of endometrial cancer should be closely monitored .
5 . 5 General Patients with a history of thromboembolic diseases should generally not be treated with toremifene citrate .
Patients with bone metastases should be monitored closely for hypercalcemia during the first weeks of treatment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia have been reported rarely ; leukocyte and platelet counts should be monitored when using toremifene citrate in patients with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia .
5 . 6 Laboratory Tests Periodic complete blood counts , calcium levels , and liver function tests should be obtained .
5 . 7 Use in Pregnancy Based on its mechanism of action in humans and findings of increased pregnancy loss and fetal malformation in animal studies , toremifene citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Toremifene caused embryo - fetal toxicities at maternal doses that were lower than the 60 mg daily recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women using toremifene citrate .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 8 Women of Childbearing Potential Toremifene citrate is indicated only in postmenopausal women .
However , premenopausal women prescribed toremifene citrate should use effective non - hormonal contraception and should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus should pregnancy occur .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Most common adverse reactions are hot flashes , sweating , nausea and vaginal discharge .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact MSN Pharmaceuticals Inc . at 1 - 855 - 668 - 2369 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Adverse drug reactions are principally due to the antiestrogenic actions of toremifene citrate and typically occur at the beginning of treatment .
The incidences of the following eight clinical toxicities were prospectively assessed in the North American Study .
The incidence reflects the toxicities that were considered by the investigator to be drug related or possibly drug related .
North American Study FAR60 TAM20 n = 221 n = 215 Hot Flashes 35 % 30 % Sweating 20 % 17 % Nausea 14 % 15 % Vaginal Discharge 13 % 16 % Dizziness 9 % 7 % Edema 5 % 5 % Vomiting 4 % 2 % Vaginal Bleeding 2 % 4 % Approximately 1 % of patients receiving toremifene citrate ( n = 592 ) in the three controlled studies discontinued treatment as a result of adverse reactions ( nausea and vomiting , fatigue , thrombophlebitis , depression , lethargy , anorexia , ischemic attack , arthritis , pulmonary embolism , and myocardial infarction ) .
Serious adverse reactions occurring in at least 1 % of patients receiving toremifene citrate in the three major trials are listed in the table below .
Three prospective , randomized , controlled clinical studies ( North American , Eastern European , and Nordic ) were conducted .
The patients were randomized to parallel groups receiving toremifene citrate 60 mg ( FAR60 ) or tamoxifen 20 mg ( TAM20 ) in the North American Study or tamoxifen 40 mg ( TAM40 ) in the Eastern European and Nordic studies .
The North American and Eastern European studies also included high - dose toremifene arms of 200 and 240 mg daily , respectively [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Adverse Reactions North American Eastern European Nordic FAR60 TAM20 FAR60 TAM40 FAR60 TAM40 n = 221 ( % ) n = 215 ( % ) n = 157 ( % ) n = 149 ( % ) n = 214 ( % ) n = 201 ( % ) Cardiac Cardiac Failure 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) - 1 ( < 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 . 5 ) Myocardial Infarction 2 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( < 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) - 1 ( < 1 ) Arrhythmia - - - - 3 ( 1 . 5 ) 1 ( < 1 ) Angina Pectoris - - 1 ( < 1 ) - 1 ( < 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) Ocular * Cataracts 22 ( 10 ) 16 ( 7 . 5 ) - - - 5 ( 3 ) Dry Eyes 20 ( 9 ) 16 ( 7 . 5 ) - - - - Abnormal Visual Fields 8 ( 4 ) 10 ( 5 ) - - - 1 ( < 1 ) Corneal Keratopathy 4 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) - - - - Glaucoma 3 ( 1 . 5 ) 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) - - 1 ( < 1 ) Abnormal - - - - 3 ( 1 . 5 ) - Vision / Diplopia Thromboembolic Pulmonary Embolism 4 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) - - 1 ( < 1 ) Thrombophlebitis - 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) 4 ( 2 ) 3 ( 1 . 5 ) Thrombosis - 1 ( < 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) - 3 ( 1 . 5 ) 4 ( 2 ) CVA / TIA 1 ( < 1 ) - - 1 ( < 1 ) 4 ( 2 ) 4 ( 2 ) Elevated Liver Tests ** AST 11 ( 5 ) 4 ( 2 ) 30 ( 19 ) 22 ( 15 ) 32 ( 15 ) 35 ( 17 ) Alkaline Phosphatase 41 ( 19 ) 24 ( 11 ) 16 ( 10 ) 13 ( 9 ) 18 ( 8 ) 31 ( 15 ) Bilirubin 3 ( 1 . 5 ) 4 ( 2 ) 2 ( 1 ) 1 ( < 1 ) 2 ( 1 ) 3 ( 1 . 5 ) Hypercalcemia 6 ( 3 ) 6 ( 3 ) 1 ( < 1 ) - - - * Most of the ocular abnormalities were observed in the North American Study in which on - study and biannual ophthalmic examinations were performed .
No cases of retinopathy were observed in any arm .
** Elevated defined as follows : North American Study : AST > 100 IU / L ; alkaline phosphatase > 200 IU / L ; bilirubin > 2 mg / dL .
Eastern European and Nordic studies : AST , alkaline phosphatase , and bilirubin – WHO Grade 1 ( 1 . 25 times the upper limit of normal ) .
Other adverse reactions included leukopenia and thrombocytopenia , skin discoloration or dermatitis , constipation , dyspnea , paresis , tremor , vertigo , pruritus , anorexia , reversible corneal opacity ( corneal verticulata ) , asthenia , alopecia , depression , jaundice , and rigors .
The incidence of AST elevations was greater in the 200 and 240 mg toremifene citrate dose arms than in the tamoxifen arms .
Higher doses of toremifene citrate were also associated with an increase in nausea .
Approximately 4 % of patients were withdrawn for toxicity from the high - dose toremifene citrate treatment arms .
Reasons for withdrawal included hypercalcemia , abnormal liver function tests , and one case each of toxic hepatitis , depression , dizziness , incoordination , ataxia , blurry vision , diffuse dermatitis , and a constellation of symptoms consisting of nausea , sweating , and tremor .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience The following adverse reactions were identified during post approval use of toremifene citrate .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Adverse reactions reported during post approval use of toremifene citrate have been consistent with clinical trial experience .
The most frequently reported adverse reactions related to toremifene citrate use since market introduction include hot flash , sweating , nausea , and vaginal discharge .
Hepatototoxicity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Risk of Uterine Malignancy [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Drugs that decrease renal calcium excretion , e . g . , thiazide diuretics , may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene citrate .
( 7 . 1 ) • Agents that prolong QT should be avoided .
( 7 . 2 ) • Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer may result in a relevant decrease in toremifene citrate exposure and should be avoided .
( 7 . 3 ) • Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor can result in a relevant increase in toremifene citrate exposure and should be avoided .
( 7 . 4 ) • CYP2C9 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index such as warfarin or phenytoin with toremifene citrate should be used with caution and require careful monitoring .
( 7 . 6 ) 7 . 1 Drugs that Decrease Renal Calcium Excretion Drugs that decrease renal calcium excretion , e . g . , thiazide diuretics , may increase the risk of hypercalcemia in patients receiving toremifene citrate .
7 . 2 Agents that Prolong QT The administration of toremifene citrate with agents that have demonstrated QT prolongation as one of their pharmacodynamic effects should be avoided .
Should treatment with any of these agents be required , it is recommended that therapy with toremifene citrate be interrupted .
If interruption of treatment with toremifene citrate is not possible , patients who require treatment with a drug that prolongs QT should be closely monitored for prolongation of the QT interval .
Agents generally accepted to prolong QT interval include Class 1 A ( e . g . , quinidine , procainamide , disopyramide ) and Class III ( e . g . , amiodarone , sotalol , ibutilide , dofetilide ) antiarrhythmics ; certain antipsychotics ( e . g . , thioridazine , haloperidol ) ; certain antidepressants ( e . g . , venlafaxine , amitriptyline ) ; certain antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin , clarithromycin , levofloxacin , ofloxacin ) ; and certain anti - emetics ( e . g . , ondansetron , granisetron ) .
In patients at increased risk , electrocardiograms ( ECGs ) should be obtained and patients monitored as clinically indicated [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 3 Effect of Strong CYP3A4 Inducers on Toremifene Strong CYP3A4 enzyme inducers , such as dexamethasone , phenytoin , carbamazepine , rifampin , rifabutin , phenobarbital , St . John ’ s Wort , lower the steady - state concentration of toremifene in serum .
7 . 4 Effect of Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors on Toremifene In a study of 18 healthy subjects , 80 mg toremifene once daily coadministered with 200 mg of ketoconazole twice daily increased the toremifene Cmax and AUC by 1 . 4 - and 2 . 9 - fold , respectively .
N - demethyltoremifene Cmax and AUC were reduced by 56 % and 20 % , respectively .
The administration of toremifene citrate with agents that are strong CYP3A4 inhibitors ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , clarithromycin , atazanavir , indinavir , nefazodone , nelfinavir , ritonavir , saquinavir , telithromycin , and voriconazole ) increase the steady - state concentration in serum and should be avoided .
Grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of toremifene and should be avoided .
Should treatment with any of these agents be required , it is recommended that therapy with toremifene citrate be interrupted .
If interruption of treatment with toremifene citrate is not possible , patients who require treatment with a drug that strongly inhibits CYP3A4 should be closely monitored for prolongation of the QT interval [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
7 . 5 Effect of Toremifene on CYP3A4 Substrates In a study of 20 healthy subjects , 2 mg midazolam once daily ( days 6 and 18 ) coadministered with toremifene as a 480 mg loading dose followed by 80 mg once daily for 16 days .
Following coadministration on days 6 and 18 relevant increases in midazolam and α - hydroxymidazolam Cmax and AUC were not observed .
Following coadministration on day 18 midazolam and α - hydroxymidazolam Cmax and AUC were reduced by less than 20 % .
Clinically relevant exposure changes in sensitive substrates due to inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 by toremifene appear unlikely .
7 . 6 Effect of Toremifene on CYP2C9 Substrates In a study of 20 healthy subjects , 500 mg tolbutamide once daily ( days 7 and 19 ) coadministered with toremifene as a 480 mg loading dose followed by 80 mg once daily for 16 days .
Following coadministration on days 7 and 19 plasma tolbutamide Cmax and AUC were increased by less than 30 % .
A reduction of similar magnitude was observed for hydroxytolbutamide and carboxytolbutamide Cmax and AUC .
Toremifene is a weak inhibitor of CYP2C9 .
Concomitant use of CYP2C9 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index such as warfarin or phenytoin with toremifene citrate should be done with caution and requires careful monitoring ( e . g . , substrate concentrations ( if possible ) , appropriate laboratory markers , and signs and symptoms of increased exposure ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Discontinue drug or nursing taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
( 8 . 2 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) . ]
Based on its mechanism of action in humans and findings of increased pregnancy loss and fetal malformation in animal studies , toremifene citrate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Toremifene caused embryo - fetal toxicities at maternal doses that were lower than the 60 mg daily recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women using toremifene citrate .
If this drug is used during pregnancy , or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug , the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus .
In animal studies , toremifene crossed the placenta and accumulated in the rodent fetus .
Administration of toremifene to pregnant rats during organogenesis at doses of approximately 6 % the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg ( on a mg / m2 basis ) resulted in signs of maternal toxicity and increased preimplantation loss , increased resorptions , reduced fetal weight , and fetal anomalies .
Fetal anomalies include malformation of limbs , incomplete ossification , misshapen bones , ribs / spine anomalies , hydroureter , hydronephrosis , testicular displacement , and subcutaneous edema .
Maternal toxicity may have contributed to these adverse embryo - fetal effects .
Similar embryo - fetal toxicities occurred in rabbits that received toremifene at doses approximately 40 % the daily recommended human dose of 60 mg ( on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Findings in rabbits included increased preimplantation loss , increased resorptions , and fetal anomalies , including incomplete ossification and anencephaly .
Animal doses resulting in embryo - fetal toxicities were ≥ 1 . 0 mg / kg / day in rats and ≥ 1 . 25 mg / kg / day in rabbits .
In rodent models of fetal reproductive tract development , toremifene produced inhibition of uterine development in female pups similar to effects seen with diethylstilbestrol ( DES ) and tamoxifen .
The clinical relevance of these changes is not known .
Neonatal rodent studies have not been conducted to assess the potential for toremifene to cause other DES - like effects in offspring ( i . e . , vaginal adenosis ) .
Vaginal adenosis in animals occurred following treatment with other drugs of this class and has been observed in women exposed to diethylstilbestrol in utero .
8 . 2 Nursing Mothers It is not known if toremifene is excreted in human milk .
Toremifene is excreted in the milk of lactating rats .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from toremifene citrate , a decision should be made to either discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 3 Pediatric Use There is no indication for use of toremifene citrate in pediatric patients .
8 . 4 Geriatric Use The pharmacokinetics of toremifene were studied in 10 healthy young males and 10 elderly females following a single 120 mg dose under fasting conditions .
Increases in the elimination half - life ( 4 . 2 versus 7 . 2 days ) and the volume of distribution ( 457 versus 627 L ) of toremifene were seen in the elderly females without any change in clearance or AUC .
The median ages in the three controlled studies ranged from 60 to 66 years .
No significant age - related differences in toremifene citrate effectiveness or safety were noted .
8 . 5 Renal Impairment The pharmacokinetics of toremifene and N - demethyltoremifene were similar in normals and in patients with impaired kidney function .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The mean elimination half - life of toremifene was increased by less than twofold in 10 patients with hepatic impairment ( cirrhosis or fibrosis ) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
The pharmacokinetics of N - demethyltoremifene were unchanged in these patients .
Ten patients on anticonvulsants ( phenobarbital , clonazepam , phenytoin , and carbamazepine ) showed a twofold increase in clearance and a decrease in the elimination half - life of toremifene .
8 . 7 Race The pharmacokinetics of toremifene in patients of different races has not been studied .
Fourteen percent of patients in the North American Study were non - Caucasian .
No significant race - related differences in toremifene citrate effectiveness or safety were noted .
10 OVERDOSAGE Lethality was observed in rats following single oral doses that were ≥ 1000 mg / kg ( about 150 times the recommended human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) and was associated with gastric atony / dilatation leading to interference with digestion and adrenal enlargement .
Vertigo , headache , and dizziness were observed in healthy volunteer studies at a daily dose of 680 mg for 5 days .
The symptoms occurred in two of the five subjects during the third day of the treatment and disappeared within 2 days of discontinuation of the drug .
No immediate concomitant changes in any measured clinical chemistry parameters were found .
In a study in postmenopausal breast cancer patients , toremifene 400 mg / m2 / day caused dose - limiting nausea , vomiting , and dizziness , as well as reversible hallucinations and ataxia in one patient .
Theoretically , overdose may be manifested as an increase of antiestrogenic effects , such as hot flashes ; estrogenic effects , such as vaginal bleeding ; or nervous system disorders , such as vertigo , dizziness , ataxia , and nausea .
There is no specific antidote and the treatment is symptomatic .
11 DESCRIPTION Toremifene citrate tablets for oral administration each contain 88 . 5 mg of toremifene citrate , which is equivalent to 60 mg toremifene .
Toremifene citrate tablets are estrogen agonist / antagonist .
The chemical name of toremifene is : 2 - { p - [ ( Z ) - 4 - chloro - 1 , 2 - diphenyl - 1 - butenyl ] phenoxy } - N , N - dimethylethylamine citrate ( 1 : 1 ) .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and the molecular formula is C26H28ClNO .
C6H8O7 .
The molecular weight of toremifene citrate is 598 . 10 .
The pKa is 7 . 76 .
Freely soluble in dimethyl sulphoxide , sparingly soluble in methanol and insoluble in water .
Toremifene citrate tablets are available only as tablets for oral administration .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone K 30 , and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Toremifene is a nonsteroidal triphenylethylene derivative .
Toremifene binds to estrogen receptors and may exert estrogenic , antiestrogenic , or both activities , depending upon the duration of treatment , animal species , gender , target organ , or endpoint selected .
In general , however , nonsteroidal triphenylethylene derivatives are predominantly antiestrogenic in rats and humans and estrogenic in mice .
In rats , toremifene causes regression of established dimethylbenzanthracene ( DMBA ) - induced mammary tumors .
The antitumor effect of toremifene in breast cancer is believed to be mainly due to its antiestrogenic effects , i . e . , its ability to compete with estrogen for binding sites in the cancer , blocking the growth - stimulating effects of estrogen in the tumor .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Toremifene causes a decrease in the estradiol - induced vaginal cornification index in some postmenopausal women , indicative of its antiestrogenic activity .
Toremifene also has estrogenic activity as shown by decreases in serum gonadotropin concentrations ( FSH and LH ) .
Effects on Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of 20 mg , 80 mg , and 300 mg of toremifene on QT interval was evaluated in a double - blind , randomized study in healthy male subjects aged 18 to 45 years .
The QT interval was measured at steady state of toremifene ( Day 5 of dosing ) , including the time of peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) , at 13 time points ( 4 ECGs / time point ) over 24 hours post dose in a time matched analysis .
The 300 mg dose of toremifene ( approximately five times the highest recommended dose 60 mg ) was chosen because this dose produces exposure to toremifene that will cover the expected exposures that may result from potential drug interactions and hepatic impairment [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 2 ) ] .
Dose and concentration - related increases in the QTc interval and T wave changes were observed ( see Table 1 ) .
These effects are believed to be caused by toremifene and N - demethyltoremifene .
Toremifene had no effects on heart rate , PR and QRS interval duration [ see Boxed Warningand Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Table 1 : QTc Prolongation in Healthy Male Volunteers Treatment Arm Mean ( 90 % CI ) ΔΔQTc , ms ΔQTc > 60 ms ( n , % ) QTc > 500 ms ( n , % ) Toremifene 20 mg ( N = 47 ) 7 ( 0 . 9 , 13 . 6 ) 0 0 Toremifene 80 mg ( N = 47 ) 26 ( 21 . 1 , 31 . 2 ) 2 ( 4 . 3 % ) 0 Toremifene 300 mg ( N = 48 ) 65 ( 60 . 1 , 69 . 2 ) 43 ( 89 . 6 % ) 5 ( 10 . 4 % ) 12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption – Toremifene is well absorbed after oral administration and absorption is not influenced by food .
Peak plasma concentrations are obtained within 3 hours .
Toremifene displays linear pharmacokinetics after single oral doses of 10 to 680 mg .
After multiple dosing , dose proportionality was observed for doses of 10 to 400 mg .
Steady state concentrations were reached in about 4 - 6 weeks .
Distribution – Toremifene has an apparent volume of distribution of 580 L and binds extensively ( > 99 . 5 % ) to serum proteins , mainly albumin .
Metabolism – Toremifene is extensively metabolized , principally by CYP3A4 to N - demethyltoremifene which is also antiestrogenic but with weak in vivo antitumor potency .
Serum concentrations of N - demethyltoremifene are 2 to 4 times higher than toremifene at steady state .
Following multiple dosing with toremifene in 20 healthy volunteers , plasma toremifene exposure was lower on Day 17 compared to Day 5 by approximately 14 % .
N - demethyltoremifene exposure was higher on Day 17 compared to Day 5 by approximately 80 % .
Based on these data and an in vitro induction study in human hepatocytes , auto - induction of CYP3A4 by toremifene is likely .
The effect of auto - induction on efficacy was likely captured following prolonged dosing in the clinical studies .
Elimination – The plasma concentration time profile of toremifene declines biexponentially after absorption with a mean distribution half - life of about 4 hours and an elimination half - life of about 5 days .
Elimination half - lives of major metabolites , N - demethyltoremifene and ( Deaminohydroxy ) toremifene , were 6 and 4 days , respectively .
Mean total clearance of toremifene was approximately 5 L / h .
Toremifene is eliminated as metabolites primarily in the feces , with about 10 % excreted in the urine during a 1 - week period .
Elimination of toremifene is slow , in part because of enterohepatic circulation .
Renal insufficiency – The pharmacokinetics of toremifene and N - demethyltoremifene were similar in normals and patients with impaired kidney function .
Hepatic insufficiency – The mean elimination half - life of toremifene was increased by less than twofold in 10 patients with hepatic impairment ( cirrhosis or fibrosis ) compared to subjects with normal hepatic function .
The pharmacokinetics of N - demethyltoremifene were unchanged in these patients .
Ten patients on anticonvulsants ( phenobarbital , clonazepam , phenytoin , and carbamazepine ) showed a twofold increase in clearance and a decrease in the elimination half - life of toremifene .
Geriatric patients – The pharmacokinetics of toremifene were studied in 10 healthy young males and 10 elderly females following a single 120 mg dose under fasting conditions .
Increases in the elimination half - life ( 4 . 2 versus 7 . 2 days ) and the volume of distribution ( 457 versus 627 L ) of toremifene were seen in the elderly females without any change in clearance or AUC .
The median ages in the three controlled studies ranged from 60 to 66 years .
No significant age - related differences in toremifene citrate effectiveness or safety were noted .
Food – The rate and extent of absorption of toremifene citrate are not influenced by food ; thus toremifene citrate may be taken with or without food .
Race – The pharmacokinetics of toremifene in patients of different races has not been studied .
Fourteen percent of patients in the North American Study were non - Caucasian .
No significant race - related differences in toremifene citrate effectiveness or safety were noted .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility Conventional carcinogenesis studies in rats at doses of 0 . 12 to 12 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 / 50 to 2 times the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) for up to 2 years did not show evidence of carcinogenicity .
Studies in mice at doses of 1 . 0 to 30 . 0 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 / 15 to 2 times the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) for up to 2 years revealed increased incidence of ovarian and testicular tumors and increased incidence of osteoma and osteosarcoma .
The significance of the mouse findings is uncertain because of the different role of estrogens in mice and the estrogenic effect of toremifene in mice .
An increased incidence of ovarian and testicular tumors in mice has also been observed with other human estrogen agonists / antagonists that have primarily estrogenic activity in mice .
Endometrial hyperplasia of the uterus was observed in monkeys following 52 weeks of treatment at ≥ 1 mg / kg and in dogs following 16 weeks of treatment at ≥ 3 mg / kg with toremifene ( approximately 1 / 3 and 1 . 4 times , respectively , the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Toremifene has not been shown to be mutagenic in in vitro tests ( Ames and E . coli bacterial tests ) .
Toremifene is clastogenic in vitro ( chromosomal aberrations and micronuclei formation in human lymphoblastoid MCL - 5 cells ) and in vivo ( chromosomal aberrations in rat hepatocytes ) .
Toremifene produced impairment of fertility and conception in male and female rats at doses ≥ 25 . 0 and 0 . 14 mg / kg / day , respectively ( approximately 4 times and 1 / 50 the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
At these doses , sperm counts , fertility index , and conception rate were reduced in males with atrophy of seminal vesicles and prostate .
In females , fertility and reproductive indices were markedly reduced with increased pre - and post - implantation loss .
In addition , offspring of treated rats exhibited depressed reproductive indices .
Toremifene produced ovarian atrophy in dogs administered doses ≥ 3 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 5 times the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) for 16 weeks .
Cystic ovaries and reduction in endometrial stromal cellularity were observed in monkeys at doses ≥ 1 mg / kg / day ( about 1 / 3 the daily maximum recommended human dose of 60 mg , on a mg / m2 basis ) for 52 weeks .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Three prospective , randomized , controlled clinical studies ( North American , Eastern European , and Nordic ) were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of toremifene citrate for the treatment of breast cancer in postmenopausal women .
The patients were randomized to parallel groups receiving toremifene citrate 60 mg ( FAR60 ) or tamoxifen 20 mg ( TAM20 ) in the North American Study or tamoxifen 40 mg ( TAM40 ) in the Eastern European and Nordic studies .
The North American and Eastern European studies also included high - dose toremifene arms of 200 and 240 mg daily , respectively .
The studies included postmenopausal patients with estrogen - receptor ( ER ) positive or estrogen - receptor ( ER ) unknown metastatic breast cancer .
The patients had at least one measurable or evaluable lesion .
The primary efficacy variables were response rate ( RR ) and time to progression ( TTP ) .
Survival ( S ) was also determined .
Ninety - five percent confidence intervals ( 95 % CI ) were calculated for the difference in RR between FAR60 and TAM groups and the hazard ratio ( relative risk for an unfavorable event , such as disease progression or death ) between TAM and FAR60 for TTP and S . Two of the 3 studies showed similar results for all effectiveness endpoints .
However , the Nordic Study showed a longer time to progression for tamoxifen ( see table ) .
Clinical Studies Study North American Eastern European Nordic Treatment Group FAR60 TAM20 FAR60 TAM40 FAR60 TAM40 No .
Patients 221 215 157 149 214 201 Responses CR1 + PR2 14 + 33 11 + 30 7 + 25 3 + 28 19 + 48 19 + 56 RR3 ( CR + PR ) % 21 . 3 19 . 1 20 . 4 20 . 8 31 . 3 37 . 3 Difference in RR 2 . 2 - 0 . 4 - 6 . 0 95 % CI4for Difference in RR - 5 . 8 to 10 . 2 - 9 . 5 to 8 . 6 - 15 . 1 to 3 . 1 Time to Progression ( TTP ) Median TTP ( mo . ) 5 . 6 5 . 8 4 . 9 5 . 0 7 . 3 10 . 2 Hazard Ratio ( TAM / FAR ) 1 . 01 1 . 02 0 . 80 95 % CI4 for Hazard Ratio ( % ) 0 . 81 to 1 . 26 0 . 79 to 1 . 31 0 . 64 to 1 . 00 Survival ( S ) Median S ( mo . ) 33 . 6 34 . 0 25 . 4 23 . 4 33 . 0 38 . 7 Hazard Ratio ( TAM / FAR ) 0 . 94 0 . 96 0 . 94 95 % CI4 for Hazard Ratio ( % ) 0 . 74 to 1 . 24 0 . 72 to 1 . 28 0 . 73 to 1 . 22 1 CR = complete response ; 2 PR = partial response ; 3 RR = response rate ; 4 CI = confidence interval The high - dose groups , toremifene 200 mg daily in the North American Study and 240 mg daily in the Eastern European Study , were not superior to the lower toremifene dose groups , with response rates of 22 . 6 % and 28 . 7 % , median times to progression of 5 . 6 and 6 . 1 months , and median survivals of 30 . 1 and 23 . 8 months , respectively .
The median treatment duration in the three pivotal studies was 5 months ( range 4 . 2 - 6 . 3 months ) .
16 SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Toremifene citrate tablets , containing toremifene citrate in an amount equivalent to 60 mg of toremifene , are white to off white colored , round shaped , uncoated tablets , debossed with “ MT ” on one side and plain on other side and free from physical defects .
Toremifene citrate tablets are available as : NDC 69539 - 152 - 30 bottles of 30 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
Excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from heat and light .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Vaginal bleeding has been reported in patients using toremifene citrate .
Patients should be informed about this and instructed to contact their physician if such bleeding or other gynecological symptoms ( changes in vaginal discharge , pelvic pain or pressure ) occur .
Patients should have a gynecological examination prior to initiation of therapy and at regular intervals while on therapy .
Liver disorders including transaminits grade 3 and 4 , hyperbilirubinemia with jaundice have been reported in patients using toremifene citrate .
Patients should have liver function tests performed periodically while on therapy .
Toremifene citrate may harm the fetus and increase the risk for pregnancy loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Premenopausal women using toremifene citrate should use nonhormonal contraception during treatment and should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus should pregnancy occur [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Patients with bone metastases should be informed about the typical signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia and instructed to contact their physician for further assessment if such signs or symptoms occur .
Patients who must take medications known to prolong the QT interval , or potent CYP3A4 inhibitors , should be informed of the effect of toremifene on QT interval .
Toremifene has been shown to prolong the QTc interval in a dose - related manner [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Specific interactions with foods that inhibit CYP3A4 , including grapefruit juice , have not been studied but may increase toremifene concentrations .
Patients should avoid grapefruit products and other foods that are known to inhibit CYP3A4 during toremifene citrate treatment .
Certain other medicines , including over - the - counter medications or herbal supplements ( such as St . John ’ s Wort ) and toremifene , can reduce concentrations of co - administered drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) ] .
Manufactured by : MSN Laboratories Private Limited Telangana – 509 228 , INDIA Distributed by : MSN Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Piscataway , NJ 08854 - 3714 Issued on : 07 / 2019 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Toremifene Citrate tablets , 60 mg - 30 ' s container label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
