DESCRIPTIONNizatidine USP is a histamine H2 - receptor antagonist .
Chemically , it is N - [ 2 - [ [ [ 2 - [ ( dimethylamino ) methyl ] - 4 - thiazolyl ] methyl ] thio ] ethyl ] - N ’ - methyl - 2 - nitro - 1 , 1 - ethenediamine .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nizatidine has the molecular formula C12H21N5O2S2 representing a molecular weight of 331 . 46 .
It is an off - white to buff crystalline solid that is soluble in water .
Nizatidine has a bitter taste and mild sulfur - like odor .
Each capsule for oral administration contains nizatidine 150 mg ( 0 . 45 mmol ) or 300 mg ( 0 . 91 mmol ) , pregelatinized starch , povidone , corn starch , talc , croscarmellose sodium , dimethicone , gelatin , titanium dioxide , pharmaceutical glaze ( modified ) , synthetic black iron oxide , propylene glycol , FD and C blue # 2 aluminum lake , FD and C red # 40 aluminum lake , FD and C blue # 1 aluminum lake , and D and C yellow # 10 aluminum lake .
The 150 mg capsule also contains yellow iron oxide , and the 300 mg capsule also contains D and C red # 28 , FD and C blue # 1 , and FD and C yellow # 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGYNizatidine is a competitive , reversible inhibitor of histamine at the histamine H2 - receptors , particularly those in the gastric parietal cells .
Antisecretory ActivityEffects on Acid Secretion Nizatidine significantly inhibited nocturnal gastric acid secretion for up to 12 hours .
Nizatidine also significantly inhibited gastric acid secretion stimulated by food , caffeine , betazole , and pentagastrin .
INDICATIONS AND USAGENizatidine is indicated for up to 8 weeks for the treatment of active duodenal ulcer .
In most patients , the ulcer will heal within 4 weeks .
Nizatidine is indicated for maintenance therapy for duodenal ulcer patients , at a reduced dosage of 150 mg h . s . after healing of an active duodenal ulcer .
The consequences of continuous therapy with nizatidine for longer than 1 year are not known .
Nizatidine is indicated for up to 12 weeks for the treatment of endoscopically diagnosed esophagitis , including erosive and ulcerative esophagitis , and associated heartburn due to GERD .
Nizatidine is indicated for up to 8 weeks for the treatment of active benign gastric ulcer .
Before initiating therapy , care should be taken to exclude the possibility of malignant gastric ulceration .
CONTRAINDICATIONSNizatidine is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to the drug .
Because cross sensitivity in this class of compounds has been observed , H2 - receptor antagonists , including nizatidine , should not be administered to patients with a history of hypersensitivity to other H2 - receptor antagonists .
PRECAUTIONSGeneralSymptomatic response to nizatidine therapy does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy .
Because nizatidine is excreted primarily by the kidney , dosage should be reduced in patients with moderate to severe renal insufficiency ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Pharmacokinetic studies in patients with hepatorenal syndrome have not been done .
Part of the dose of nizatidine is metabolized in the liver .
In patients with normal renal function and uncomplicated hepatic dysfunction , the disposition of nizatidine is similar to that in normal subjects .
Laboratory TestsFalse - positive tests for urobilinogen with Multistix ® may occur during therapy with nizatidine .
Drug InteractionsNo interactions have been observed between nizatidine and theophylline , chlordiazepoxide , lorazepam , lidocaine , phenytoin , and warfarin .
Nizatidine does not inhibit the cytochrome P - 450 - linked drug - metabolizing enzyme system ; therefore , drug interactions mediated by inhibition of hepatic metabolism are not expected to occur .
In patients given very high doses ( 3 , 900 mg ) of aspirin daily , increases in serum salicylate levels were seen when nizatidine , 150 mg b . i . d . , was administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of FertilityA 2 - year oral carcinogenicity study in rats with doses as high as 500 mg / kg / day ( about 13 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect .
There was a dose - related increase in the density of enterochromaffin - like ( ECL ) cells in the gastric oxyntic mucosa .
In a 2 - year study in mice , there was no evidence of a carcinogenic effect in male mice ; although hyperplastic nodules of the liver were increased in the high - dose males as compared with placebo .
Female mice given the high dose of nizatidine ( 2 , 000 mg / kg / day , about 27 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) showed marginally statistically significant increases in hepatic carcinoma and hepatic nodular hyperplasia with no numerical increase seen in any of the other dose groups .
The rate of hepatic carcinoma in the high - dose animals was within the historical control limits seen for the strain of mice used .
The female mice were given a dose larger than the maximum tolerated dose , as indicated by excessive ( 30 % ) weight decrement as compared with concurrent controls and evidence of mild liver injury ( transaminase elevations ) .
The occurrence of a marginal finding at high dose only in animals given an excessive and somewhat hepatotoxic dose , with no evidence of a carcinogenic effect in rats , male mice , and female mice ( given up to 360 mg / kg / day , about 5 times the recommended human dose based on body surface aea ) , and a negative mutagenicity battery are not considered evidence of a carcinogenic potential for nizatidine .
Nizatidine was not mutagenic in a battery of tests performed to evaluate its potential genetic toxicity , including bacterial mutation tests , unscheduled DNA synthesis , sister chromatid exchange , mouse lymphoma assay , chromosome aberration tests , and a micronucleus test .
In a 2 - generation , perinatal and postnatal fertility study in rats , doses of nizatidine up to 650 mg / kg / day ( about 17 . 5 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) produced no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of parental animals or their progeny .
PregnancyTeratogenic Effects – Pregnancy Category B : Oral reproduction studies in pregnant rats at doses up to 1500 mg / kg / day ( about 40 . 5 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) and in pregnant rabbits at doses up to 275 mg / kg / day ( about 14 . 6 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area ) have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to nizatidine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing MothersStudies conducted in lactating women have shown that 0 . 1 % of the administered oral dose of nizatidine is secreted in human milk in proportion to plasma concentrations .
Because of the growth depression in pups reared by lactating rats treated with nizatidine , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric UseSafety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric UseOf the 955 patients in clinical studies who were treated with nizatidine , 337 ( 35 . 3 % ) were 65 and older .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these and younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
ADVERSE REACTIONSWorldwide , controlled clinical trials of nizatidine included over 6 , 000 patients given nizatidine in studies of varying durations .
Placebo - controlled trials in the United States and Canada included over 2 , 600 patients given nizatidine and over 1 , 700 given placebo .
Among the adverse events in these placebo - controlled trials , anemia ( 0 . 2 % vs 0 % ) and urticaria ( 0 . 5 % vs 0 . 1 % ) were significantly more common in the nizatidine group .
Incidence in Placebo - Controlled Clinical Trials in the United States and CanadaTable 5 lists adverse events that occurred at a frequency of 1 % or more among nizatidine - treated patients who participated in placebo - controlled trials .
The cited figures provide some basis for estimating the relative contribution of drug and nondrug factors to the side effect incidence rate in the population studied .
A variety of less common events were also reported ; it was not possible to determine whether these were caused by nizatidine .
Hepatic : Hepatocellular injury , evidenced by elevated liver enzyme tests ( SGOT [ AST ] , SGPT [ ALT ] , or alkaline phosphatase ) , occurred in some patients and was possibly or probably related to nizatidine .
In some cases there was marked elevation of SGOT , SGPT enzymes ( greater than 500 IU / L ) and , in a single instance , SGPT was greater than 2 , 000 IU / L .
The overall rate of occurrences of elevated liver enzymes and elevations to 3 times the upper limit of normal , however , did not significantly differ from the rate of liver enzyme abnormalities in placebo - treated patients .
All abnormalities were reversible after discontinuation of nizatidine .
Since market introduction , hepatitis and jaundice have been reported .
Rare cases of cholestatic or mixed hepatocellular and cholestatic injury with jaundice have been reported with reversal of the abnormalities after discontinuation of nizatidine .
Cardiovascular : In clinical pharmacology studies , short episodes of asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia occurred in 2 individuals administered nizatidine and in 3 untreated subjects .
CNS : Rare cases of reversible mental confusion have been reported .
Endocrine : Clinical pharmacology studies and controlled clinical trials showed no evidence of antiandrogenic activity due to nizatidine .
Impotence and decreased libido were reported with similar frequency by patients who received nizatidine and by those given placebo .
Rare reports of gynecomastia occurred .
Hematologic : Anemia was reported significantly more frequently in nizatidine - than in placebo - treated patients .
Fatal thrombocytopenia was reported in a patient who was treated with nizatidine and another H2 - receptor antagonist .
On previous occasions , this patient had experienced thrombocytopenia while taking other drugs .
Rare cases of thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported .
Integumental : Sweating and urticaria were reported significantly more frequently in nizatidine - than in placebo - treated patients .
Rash and exfoliative dermatitis were also reported .
Vasculitis has been reported rarely .
Hypersensitivity : As with other H2 - receptor antagonists , rare cases of anaphylaxis following administration of nizatidine have been reported .
Rare episodes of hypersensitivity reactions ( e . g . , bronchospasm , laryngeal edema , rash , and eosinophilia ) have been reported .
Body as a Whole : Serum sickness - like reactions have occurred rarely in conjunction with nizatidine use .
Genitourinary : Reports of impotence have occurred .
Other : Hyperuricemia unassociated with gout or nephrolithiasis was reported .
Eosinophilia , fever , and nausea related to nizatidine administration have been reported .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONActive Duodenal UlcerThe recommended oral dosage for adults is 300 mg once daily at bedtime .
An alternative dosage regimen is 150 mg twice daily .
Maintenance of Healed Duodenal UlcerThe recommended oral dosage for adults is 150 mg once daily at bedtime .
Gastroesophageal Reflux DiseaseThe recommended oral dosage in adults for the treatment of erosions , ulcerations , and associated heartburn is 150 mg twice daily .
Active Benign Gastric UlcerThe recommended oral dosage is 300 mg given either as 150 mg twice daily or 300 mg once daily at bedtime .
Prior to treatment , care should be taken to exclude the possibility of malignant gastric ulceration .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients With Moderate to Severe Renal InsufficiencyThe dose for patients with renal dysfunction should be reduced as follows : Some elderly patients may have creatinine clearances of less than 50 mL / min , and , based on pharmacokinetic data in patients with renal impairment , the dose for such patients should be reduced accordingly .
The clinical effects of this dosage reduction in patients with renal failure have not been evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIEDNizatidine Capsules USP , 150 mg are available as white opaque body and yellow opaque cap , imprinted “ 150 ” on the body and cap in black ink .
They are available in bottles of 60 and 500 .
Nizatidine Capsules USP , 300 mg are available as white opaque body and peach opaque cap , imprinted “ 300 ” on the body and cap in black ink .
They are available in bottles of 30 and 100 .
Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Sandoz , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Lable Image [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
