FOR DERMATOLOGIC USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE Rx only DESCRIPTION Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP 0 . 05 % ( Augmented ) contains betamethasone dipropionate , USP , a synthetic adrenocorticosteroid , for dermatologic use .
Betamethasone , an analog of prednisolone , has a high degree of corticosteroid activity and a slight degree of mineralocorticoid activity .
Betamethasone dipropionate is the 17 , 21 - dipropionate ester of betamethasone .
Chemically , betamethasone dipropionate is 9 - fluoro - 11β , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16β - methylpregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione 17 , 21 - dipropionate , with the empirical formula C28H37FO7 , a molecular weight of 504 . 6 and the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a white to creamy - white , odorless powder insoluble in water ; freely soluble in acetone and in chloroform ; sparingly soluble in alcohol .
Each gram of Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP 0 . 05 % ( Augmented ) contains 0 . 643 mg betamethasone dipropionate , USP ( equivalent to 0 . 5 mg betamethasone ) , in an augmented lotion base of purified water ; isopropyl alcohol ( 30 % ) ; hydroxypropyl cellulose ; propylene glycol ; monobasic sodium phosphate and phosphoric acid used to adjust the pH . [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The corticosteroids are a class of compounds comprising steroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex and their synthetic analogs .
In pharmacologic doses , corticosteroids are used primarily for their anti - inflammatory and / or immunosuppressive effects .
Topical corticosteroids , such as betamethasone dipropionate , are effective in the treatment of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses primarily because of their anti - inflammatory , antipruritic , and vasoconstrictive actions .
However , while the physiologic , pharmacologic , and clinical effects of the corticosteroids are well known , the exact mechanisms of their actions in each disease are uncertain .
Betamethasone dipropionate , a corticosteroid , has been shown to have topical ( dermatologic ) and systemic pharmacologic and metabolic effects characteristic of this class of drugs .
Pharmacokinetics : The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier , and the use of occlusive dressings .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed through normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Once absorbed through the skin , topical corticosteroids enter pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids .
Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees , are metabolized primarily in the liver and excreted by the kidneys .
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile .
Studies performed with betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) indicate that it is in the super - high range of potency as compared with other topical corticosteroids .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) is a super - high potency corticosteroid indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid - responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years and older .
The total dose should not exceed 50 mL per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress the hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) is contraindicated in patients who are hypersensitive to betamethasone dipropionate , to other corticosteroids , or to any ingredient in this preparation .
PRECAUTIONS Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible HPA axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
Conditions which augment systemic absorption include the application of the more potent corticosteroids , use over large surface areas , prolonged use , and the addition of occlusive dressings .
Use of more than one corticosteroid - containing product at the same time may increase total systemic glucocorticoid exposure .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section . )
Therefore , patients receiving a large dose of a potent topical steroid applied to a large surface area should be evaluated periodically for evidence of HPA axis suppression by using the urinary free cortisol and ACTH stimulation tests .
If HPA axis suppression is noted , an attempt should be made to withdraw the drug , to reduce the frequency of application , or to substitute a less potent steroid .
Recovery of HPA axis function is generally prompt and complete upon discontinuation of the drug .
Patients should not be treated with amounts of betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) greater than 50 mL per week because of the potential for the drug to suppress HPA axis .
Patients receiving super - potent corticosteroids should not be treated for more than 2 weeks at a time and only small areas should be treated at any one time due to the increased risk of HPA axis suppression .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) was applied once daily at 7 mL per day for 21 days to diseased scalp and body skin in patients with scalp psoriasis to study its effects on the HPA axis .
In 2 out of 11 patients , the drug lowered plasma cortisol levels below normal limits .
HPA axis suppression in these patients was transient and returned to normal within a week .
In one of these patients , plasma cortisol levels returned to normal while treatment continued .
Infrequently , signs and symptoms of steroid withdrawal may occur , requiring supplemental systemic corticosteroids .
Pediatric patients may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
( See PRECAUTIONS - Pediatric Use . )
If irritation develops , topical corticosteroids should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
In the presence of dermatological infections , the use of an appropriate antifungal or antibacterial agent should be instituted .
If a favorable response does not occur promptly , the corticosteroid should be discontinued until the infection has been adequately controlled .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should not be used in the treatment of rosacea or perioral dermatitis , and it should not be used on the face , groin or in the axillae .
Information for Patients : Patients using topical corticosteroids should receive the following information and instructions .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
• This medication is to be used as directed by the physician and should not be used longer than the prescribed time period .
It is for external use only .
Avoid contact with the eyes .
• This medication should not be used for any disorder other than that for which it was prescribed .
• The treated skin area should not be bandaged , or otherwise covered or wrapped , so as to be occlusive ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section ) .
• Patients should report to their physician any signs of local adverse reactions .
• Patients should be advised not to use betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) in the treatment of diaper dermatitis .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should not be applied in the diaper areas as diapers or plastic pants may constitute occlusive dressing ( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
• This medication should not be used on the face , underarms , or groin areas unless directed by the physician .
• As with other corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , contact the physician .
• Other corticosteroid - containing products should not be used with betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) .
Laboratory Tests : The following tests may be helpful in evaluating patients for HPA axis suppression : ACTH stimulation test , Urinary free cortisol test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , and Impairment of Fertility : Long - term animal studies have not been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of betamethasone dipropionate .
Betamethasone was negative in the bacterial mutagenicity assay ( Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli ) , and in the mammalian cell mutagenicity assay ( CHO / HGPRT ) .
It was positive in the in - vitro , human lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay , and equivocal in the in - vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
This pattern of response is similar to that of dexamethasone and hydrocortisone .
Studies in rabbits , mice and rats using intramuscular doses up to 1 , 33 and , 2 , mg / kg , respectively , resulted in dose related increases in fetal resorptions in rabbits and mice .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic in laboratory animals when administered systemically at relatively low dosage levels .
Some corticosteroids have been shown to be teratogenic after dermal application in laboratory animals .
Betamethasone dipropionate has been shown to be teratogenic in rabbits when given by the intramuscular route at doses of 0 . 05 mg / kg .
This dose is approximately 0 . 2 times the human topical dose of betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) in mg / m2 of body surface area , assuming 100 % absorption and the use in a 60 kg person of 7 g per day .
The abnormalities observed included umbilical hernias , cephalocele and cleft palate .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women on teratogenic effects from topically applied corticosteroids .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers : Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use : Use of betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) in pediatric patients 12 years of age and younger is not recommended .
( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY and ADVERSE REACTIONS sections . )
Pediatric patients may demonstrate greater susceptibility to topical corticosteroid - induced HPA axis suppression and Cushing ' s syndrome than mature patients because of a larger skin surface area to body weight ratio .
Hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , Cushing ' s syndrome , and intracranial hypertension have been reported in children receiving topical corticosteroids .
Manifestations of adrenal suppression in children include linear growth retardation , delayed weight gain , low plasma cortisol levels and absence of response to ACTH stimulation .
Manifestations of intracranial hypertension include bulging fontanelles , headaches , and bilateral papilledema .
Chronic corticosteroid therapy may interfere with the growth and development of children .
Geriatric Use : Seven clinical studies of betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) evaluated 407 subjects or which 56 subjects were 65 years of age and over and 9 subjects were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed in these clinical studies between geriatric subjects and younger subjects .
There was a numerical difference for application site reactions ( most frequently reported events were burning and stinging ) which occurred in 15 % ( 10 / 65 ) of geriatric subjects and 11 % ( 38 / 342 ) of subjects less than 65 years of age .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The local adverse reactions which were reported with betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) during controlled clinical trials were as follows : erythema , folliculitis , pruritus and vesiculation each occurring in less than 1 % of patients .
The following additional local adverse reactions have been reported with topical corticosteroids , and they may occur more frequently with the use of occlusive dressings and higher potency corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximately decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , secondary infection , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal ( HPA ) axis suppression , manifestations of Cushing ' s syndrome , hyperglycemia , and glucosuria in some patients .
OVERDOSAGE Topically applied betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a few drops of betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) to the affected skin once or twice daily and massage lightly until the lotion disappears .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) is a super - high potency topical corticosteroid .
Treatment with betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should be limited to two weeks , and amounts greater than 50 mL per week should not be used .
As with other highly active corticosteroids , therapy should be discontinued when control is achieved .
If no improvement is seen within 2 weeks , reassessment of diagnosis may be necessary .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should not be used with occlusive dressings .
Betamethasone dipropionate lotion ( augmented ) should not be applied to the diaper area if the patient requires diapers or plastic pants as these garments may constitute occlusive dressing .
HOW SUPPLIED Betamethasone Dipropionate Lotion USP 0 . 05 % ( Augmented ) is supplied as follows : 30 mL NDC 54868 - 6288 - 0 Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Nycomed US Inc .
MELVILLE , NEW YORK 11747 I2267A R1 / 08 # 105 Relabeling ( Additional barcode label ) by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 NDC 54868 - 6288 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] BETAMETHASONE DIPROPIONATE LOTION USP , 0 . 05 % ( AUGMENTED * ) ( Potency expressed as betamethasone ) * Vehicle augments the penetration of the steroid .
For Topical Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic Use .
Rx Only DO NOT USE IN EYES 30 mL [ MULTIMEDIA ]
