Athenex Rx only DESCRIPTION Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of magnesium sulfate heptahydrate in water for injection .
May contain sulfuric acid and / or sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment .
The pH is 4 . 5 ( 3 . 5 to 6 . 5 ) .
It is available in 4 % and 8 % concentrations .
See HOW SUPPLIED section for the content and characteristics of available dosage forms and sizes .
Magnesium Sulfate , USP heptahydrate is chemically designated MgSO4 • 7H2O , colorless crystals or white powder freely soluble in water .
Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The flexible plastic container is free of polyvinylchloride .
Water can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap but not in amounts sufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Magnesium ( Mg + + ) is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
Magnesium prevents or controls convulsions by blocking neuromuscular transmission and decreasing the amount of acetylcholine liberated at the end plate by the motor nerve impulse .
Magnesium is said to have a depressant effect on the central nervous system , but it does not adversely affect the mother , fetus or neonate when used as directed in eclampsia or pre - eclampsia .
Normal serum magnesium levels range from 1 . 3 to 2 . 1 mEq / liter .
As serum magnesium rises above 4 mEq / liter , the deep tendon reflexes are first decreased and then disappear as the serum level approaches 10 mEq / liter .
At this level respiratory paralysis may occur .
Heart block also may occur at this or lower serum levels of magnesium .
Magnesium acts peripherally to produce vasodilation .
With low doses only flushing and sweating occur , but larger doses cause lowering of blood pressure .
The central and peripheral effects of magnesium poisoning are antagonized to some extent by intravenous administration of calcium .
With intravenous administration the onset of anticonvulsant action is immediate and lasts about 30 minutes .
Following intramuscular administration the onset of action occurs in about one hour and persists for three to four hours .
Effective anticonvulsant serum levels range from 2 . 5 to 7 . 5 mEq / liter .
Pharmacokinetics Absorption : Intravenously administered magnesium is immediately absorbed .
Distribution : Approximately 1 - 2 % of total body magnesium is located in the extracellular fluid space .
Magnesium is 30 % bound to albumin .
Metabolism : Magnesium is not metabolized .
Excretion : Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the serum concentration and glomerular filtration .
Special Populations Renal Insufficiency : Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney .
In patients with severe renal insufficiency , the dose should be lower and frequent serum magnesium levels must be obtained ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hepatic Insufficiency : Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney .
No dosing adjustments are necessary in hepatic insufficiency .
Drug - Drug Interactions Drug induced renal losses of magnesium occur with the following drugs or drug classes : Aminoglycosides Cyclosporine Digitalis Alcohol Amphotericin B Diuretics Cisplatin INDICATIONS AND USAGE Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is indicated for the prevention and control of seizures in preeclampsia and eclampsia , respectively .
When used judiciously it effectively prevents and controls the convulsions of eclampsia without producing deleterious depression of the central nervous system of the mother or infant .
However , other effective drugs are available for this purpose .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Intravenous magnesium should not be given to mothers with toxemia of pregnancy during the two hours preceding delivery .
WARNINGS FETAL HARM : Continuous administration of magnesium sulfate beyond 5 - 7 days to pregnant women can lead to hypocalcemia and bone abnormalities in the developing fetus .
These bone abnormalities include skeletal demineralization and osteopenia .
In addition , cases of neonatal fracture have been reported .
The shortest duration of treatment that can lead to fetal harm is not known .
Magnesium sulfate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
If magnesium sulfate is given for treatment of preterm labor , the woman should be informed that the efficacy and safety of such use have not been established and that use of magnesium sulfate beyond 5 - 7 days may cause fetal abnormalities .
Parenteral use in the presence of renal insufficiency may lead to magnesium intoxication .
PRECAUTIONS Because magnesium is removed from the body solely by the kidneys , the drug should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment .
Urine output should be maintained at a level of 100 mL every four hours .
Monitoring serum magnesium levels and the patient ' s clinical status is essential to avoid the consequences of overdosage in toxemia .
Clinical indications of a safe dosage regimen include the presence of the patellar reflex ( knee jerk ) and absence of respiratory depression ( approximately 16 breaths or more / minute ) .
Serum magnesium levels usually sufficient to control convulsions range from 3 to 6 mg / 100 mL ( 2 . 5 to 5 mEq / liter ) .
The strength of the deep tendon reflexes begins to diminish when serum magnesium levels exceed 4 mEq / liter .
Reflexes may be absent at 10 mEq magnesium / liter , where respiratory paralysis is a potential hazard .
An injectable calcium salt should be immediately available to counteract the potential hazards of magnesium intoxication in eclampsia .
Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection should be administered slowly to avoid producing hypermagnesemia .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy ( see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ) Teratogenic Effects Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection can cause fetal abnormalities when administered beyond 5 - 7 days to pregnant women .
There are retrospective epidemiological studies and case reports documenting fetal abnormalities such as hypocalcemia , skeletal demineralization ' s , osteopenia and other skeletal abnormalities with continuous maternal administration of magnesium sulfate for more than 5 - 7 days . 1 - 12 Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
If this drug is used during pregnancy the woman should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects When administered by continuous IV infusion ( especially for more than 24 hours preceding delivery ) to control convulsions in a toxemic woman , the newborn may show signs of magnesium toxicity , including neuromuscular or respiratory depression ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Labor and Delivery Continuous administration of magnesium sulfate is an unapproved treatment for preterm labor .
The safety and efficacy of such use have not been established .
The administration of Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection outside of its approved indication in pregnant women should be by trained obstetrical personnel in a hospital setting with appropriate obstetrical care facilities .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is administered to a nursing mother .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication .
These include flushing , sweating , hypotension , depressed reflexes , flaccid paralysis , hypothermia , circulatory collapse , cardiac and central nervous system depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis .
Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Athenex Pharmaceutical Division , LLC .
at 1 - 855 - 273 - 0154 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE Magnesium intoxication is manifested by a sharp drop in blood pressure and respiratory paralysis .
Disappearance of the patellar reflex is a useful clinical sign to detect the onset of magnesium intoxication .
In the event of overdosage , artificial ventilation must be provided until a calcium salt can be injected IV to antagonize the effects of magnesium .
For Treatment of Overdose Artificial respiration is often required .
Intravenous calcium , 10 to 20 mL of a 5 % solution ( diluted if desirable ) with isotonic sodium chloride for injection ) is used to counteract effects of hypermagnesemia .
Subcutaneous physostigmine , 0 . 5 to 1 mg may be helpful .
Hypermagnesemia in the newborn may require resuscitation and assisted ventilation via endotracheal intubation or intermittent positive pressure ventilation as well as IV calcium .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is intended for intravenous use only .
For the management of pre - eclampsia or eclampsia , intravenous infusions of dilute solutions of magnesium ( 1 % to 8 % ) are often given in combination with intramuscular injections of 50 % Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP .
Therefore , in the clinical conditions cited below , both forms of therapy are noted , as appropriate .
Continuous maternal administration of magnesium sulfate in pregnancy beyond 5 - 7 days can cause fetal abnormalities .
In Eclampsia In severe pre - eclampsia or eclampsia , the total initial dose is 10 to 14 g of magnesium sulfate .
To initiate therapy , 4 g of Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection may be administered intravenously .
The rate of I . V . infusion should generally not exceed 150 mg / minute , or 3 . 75 mL of a 4 % concentration ( or its equivalent ) per minute , except in severe eclampsia with seizures .
Simultaneously , 4 to 5 g ( 32 . 5 to 40 . 6 mEq ) of magnesium sulfate may be administered intramuscularly into each buttock using undiluted 50 % Magnesium Sulfate Injection , USP .
After the initial I . V . dose , some clinicians administer 1 to 2 g / hour by constant I . V . infusion .
Subsequent intramuscular doses of 4 to 5 g of magnesium sulfate may be injected into alternate buttocks every four hours , depending on the continuing presence of the patellar reflex , adequate respiratory function , and absence of signs of magnesium toxicity .
Therapy should continue until paroxysms cease .
A serum magnesium level of 6 mg / 100 mL is considered optimal for control of seizures .
A total daily ( 24 hr ) dose of 30 to 40 g magnesium sulfate should not be exceeded .
In the presence of severe renal insufficiency , frequent serum magnesium concentrations must be obtained and the maximum dosage of magnesium sulfate is 20 g per 48 hours .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Do not administer unless solution is clear .
Discard unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection is supplied in single - dose flexible plastic containers as follows : * Partial fill container 50 mL volume in 100 mL container .
** As the heptahydrate .
NDC Size Container Total Magnesium Sulfate ** Total Magnesium Ion Magnesium Sulfate ** Concentration Magnesium Ion Concentration Osmolarity ( calc . )
70860 - 501 - 81 50 mL * 2 grams 16 . 25 mEq 4 % ( 40 mg per mL ) 16 . 25 mEq / 50 mL 325 mOsmol / Liter 70860 - 501 - 82 100 mL 4 grams 32 . 5 mEq 4 % ( 40 mg per mL ) 32 . 5 mEq / 100 mL 325 mOsmol / Liter 70860 - 502 - 81 50 mL * 4 grams 32 . 5 mEq 8 % ( 80 mg per mL ) 32 . 5 mEq / 50 mL 649 mOsmol / Liter WARNING : DO NOT USE FLEXIBLE CONTAINER IN SERIES CONNECTIONS .
Storage Conditions Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Sterile , Nonpyrogenic , Preservative - free .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
REFERENCES • Yokoyama K , Takahashi N , Yada Y . Prolonged maternal magnesium administration and bone metabolism in neonates .
Early Human Dev .
2010 ; 86 ( 3 ) : 187 - 91 .
Epub 2010 Mar 12 .
• Wedig KE , Kogan J , Schorry EK et al .
Skeletal demineralization and fractures caused by fetal magnesium toxicity .
J Perinatol .
2006 ; 26 ( 6 ) : 371 - 4 .
• Nassar AH , Sakhel K , Maarouf H , et al .
Adverse maternal and neonatal outcome of prolonged course of magnesium sulfate tocolysis .
Acta Obstet Gynecol Scan .
2006 ; 85 ( 9 ) : 1099 - 103 .
• Malaeb SN , Rassi A , Haddad MC .
Bone mineralization in newborns whose mothers received magnesium sulphate for tocolysis of premature labor .
Pediatr Radiol .
2004 ; 34 ( 5 ) : 384 - 6 .
Epub 2004 Feb 18 .
• Matsuda Y , Maeda Y , Ito M , et al .
Effect of magnesium sulfate treatment on neonatal bone abnormalities .
Gynecol Obstet Invest .
1997 ; 44 ( 2 ) : 82 - 8 .
• Schanler RJ , Smith LG , Burns PA .
Effects of long - term maternal intravenous magnesium sulfate therapy on neonatal calcium metabolism and bone mineral content .
Gynecol Obstet Invest .
1997 ; 43 ( 4 ) : 236 - 41 .
• Santi MD , Henry GW , Douglas GL .
Magnesium sulfate treatment of preterm labor as a cause of abnormal neonatal bone mineralization .
J Pediatr Orthop .
1994 ; 14 ( 2 ) : 249 - 53 .
• Holocomb WL , Shackelford GD , Petrie RH .
Magnesium tocolysis and neonatal bone abnormalities : a controlled study .
Obstet Gynecol .
1991 ; 78 ( 4 ) : 611 - 4 .
• Cumming WA , Thomas VJ .
Hypermagnesemia : a cause of abnormal metaphyses in the neonate .
Am J Roentgenol .
1989 ; 152 ( 5 ) : 1071 - 2 .
• Lamm CL , Norton KL , Murphy RJ .
Congenital rickets associated with magnesium sulfate infusion for tocolysis .
J Pediatr .
1988 ; 113 ( 6 ) : 1078 - 82 .
• McGuinness GA , Weinstein MM , Cruikshank DP , et al .
Effects of magnesium sulfate treatment on perinatal calcium metabolism .
II .
Neonatal responses .
Obstet Gynecol .
1980 ; 56 ( 5 ) : 595 - 600 .
• Riaz M , Porat R , Brodsky NL , et al .
The effect of maternal magnesium sulfate treatment on newborns : a prospective controlled study .
J Perinatol .
1998 ; 18 ( 6 pt 1 ) : 449 - 54 .
Athenex Mfd .
for Athenex Schaumburg , IL 60173 ( USA ) Made in Italy © 2022 Athenex .
July 2022 PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – BAG NDC 70860 - 501 - 41 Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection 50 mL ( 0 . 325 mEq Mg + + / mL ) 40 mg / mL 2 g Total For I . V . Use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – BAG NDC 70860 - 502 - 41 Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection 50 mL ( 0 . 650 mEq Mg + + / mL ) 80 mg / mL 4 g Total For I . V . Use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – BAG NDC 70860 - 501 - 42 Magnesium Sulfate in Water for Injection 100 mL ( 0 . 325 mEq Mg + + / mL ) 40 mg / mL 4 g Total For I . V . Use Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
