Drug Facts Active ingredient Levonorgestrel , USP 1 . 5 mg Purpose Emergency contraceptive Use for women to reduce chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if a contraceptive failed or if you did not use birth control ) Warnings Allergy alert Do not use if you have ever had an allergic reaction to levonorgestrel Sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) alert This product does not protect against HIV / AIDS or other STDs .
Do not use • 1 .
if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • 2 .
for regular birth control Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel .
When using this product you may have • 1 .
menstrual changes • 2 .
tiredness • 3 .
dizziness • 4 .
nausea • 5 .
headache • 6 .
breast pain • 7 .
lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • 8 .
vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Directions • 1 .
take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it , the better it will work .
• 2 .
if you vomit within 2 hours after taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose Other information • 1 .
read the instructions , warnings , and enclosed product leaflet before use • 2 .
this product works mainly by preventing ovulation ( egg release ) .
It may also prevent fertilization of a released egg ( joining of sperm and egg ) or attachment of a fertilized egg to the uterus ( implantation ) .
• 3 .
do not use if carton is open or tear strip is removed or blister seal is broken or missing • 4 .
store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) Inactive ingredients colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , hypromellose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , talc Questions or comments ?
For more information , call toll free 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 weekdays Distributed by : Ohm Laboratories Inc .
New Brunswick , NJ 08901 LEVONORGESTREL TABLET , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Step .
What You Need to Know What is levonorgestrel tablet ?
Levonorgestrel tablet is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What levonorgestrel tablet is not .
Levonorgestrel tablet will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel tablet will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use levonorgestrel tablet ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use levonorgestrel tablet within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
Levonorgestrel tablet is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • 1 .
your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • 2 .
you did not use any birth control method When not to use levonorgestrel tablet .
Levonorgestrel tablet should not be used : • 1 .
as a regular birth control method , because it ' s not as effective as regular birth control .
• 2 .
if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• 3 .
if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in levonorgestrel tablet .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of levonorgestrel tablet and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does levonorgestrel tablet work ?
Levonorgestrel tablet is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
Levonorgestrel tablet contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that levonorgestrel tablet may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from levonorgestrel tablet ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take levonorgestrel tablet , the better it works .
How effective is levonorgestrel tablet ?
If levonorgestrel tablet is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know levonorgestrel tablet worked ?
You will know levonorgestrel tablet has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• 1 .
some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• 2 .
if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• 3 .
when used as directed , levonorgestrel tablet is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• 4 .
if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about levonorgestrel tablet ?
If you have questions or need more information , call our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 818 - 4555 .
Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store at room temperature 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , talc , corn starch , lactose monohydrate If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
Manufactured by : Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Halol - Baroda Highway , Halol - 389 350 , Gujarat , India .
March 2018 5182666 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1 . 5 mg Tablet Blister Pack Carton † Compare To the active ingredient of Plan B One - Step ® NDC 62756 - 723 - 60 See New Warning AfterPlan ™ Levonorgestrel Tablet 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive • 1 .
The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be • 2 .
Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex • 3 .
Will not harm an existing pregnancy • 4 .
Reduces the chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex • 5 .
Not for regular birth control Contains 1 Tablet 1 . 5 mg One Step .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
