Drug Facts Active ingredient Hydrocortisone USP , 1 % Purpose Anti - itch Uses • temporarily relieves itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to • eczema • psoriasis • insect bites • poison ivy , oak , sumac • detergents • jewelry • cosmetics • soaps • seborrheic dermatitis • temporarily relieves external anal and genital itching • other uses of this product should be only under the advice and supervision of a doctor Warnings For external use only .
Do not use • in the genital area if you have a vaginal discharge .
Consult a doctor .
• for the treatment of diaper rash .
Consult a doctor .
When using this product • avoid contact with the eyes • do not use more than directed unless directed by a doctor • do not put directly into the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a doctor if • condition worsens , symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days • do not begin the use of any other hydrocortisone product unless directed by a doctor • rectal bleeding occurs Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) right away .
Directions • for itching of skin irritation , inflammation , and rashes • adults and children 2 years of age and older : apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor • for external anal and genital itching • adults : when practical , clean the affected area with mild soap and warm water ; rinse thoroughly • gently dry by patting or blotting with toilet tissue or a soft cloth before application of this product • apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily • children under 12 years of age : consult a doctor Other information • store at 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
Protect from freezing .
• before using any medication , read all label directions .
Keep carton , it contains important information .
Inactive ingredients mineral oil , white petrolatum Questions or comments ?
Call 1 - 877 - 753 - 3935 Monday - Friday 9 AM - 5 PM EST Distributed by : H2 - Pharma , LLC Montgomery , AL 36117 HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 5856 NDC : 50090 - 5856 - 0 28 g in a TUBE / 1 in a CARTON hydrocortisone [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
