DESCRIPTION Each 100 mL of Ringer ' s Injection USP contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 86 g ; Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP 0 . 033 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 8 ( 5 . 0 – 7 . 5 ) Calculated Osmolarity : 310 mOsmol / liter Concentration of Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Sodium 147 ; Potassium 4 ; Calcium 4 . 5 ; Chloride 156 Ringer ' s Injection USP is sterile , nonpyrogenic and contains no bacteriostatic or antimicrobial agents .
This product is intended for intravenous administration in a single dose container .
The formulas of the active ingredients are : Ingredients Molecular Formula Molecular Weight Sodium Chloride USP NaCl 58 . 44 Potassium Chloride USP KCl 74 . 55 Calcium Chloride Dihydrate USP CaCl2 • 2H2O 147 . 02 Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
The plastic container is made from a multilayered film specifically developed for parenteral drugs .
It contains no plasticizers and exhibits virtually no leachables .
The solution contact layer is a rubberized copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container is nontoxic and biologically inert .
The container - solution unit is a closed system and is not dependent upon entry of external air during administration .
The container is overwrapped to provide protection from the physical environment and to provide an additional moisture barrier when necessary .
Addition of medication should be accomplished using complete aseptic technique .
The closure system has two ports ; the one for the administration set has a tamper evident plastic protector and the other is a medication addition site .
Refer to the Directions for Use of the container .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ringer ' s Injection USP provides electrolytes and is a source of water for hydration .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
Sodium , the major cation of the extracellular fluid , functions primarily in the control of water distribution , fluid balance , and osmotic pressure of body fluids .
Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid - base equilibrium of body fluid .
Potassium , the principal cation of intracellular fluid , participates in carbohydrate utilization and protein synthesis , and is critical in the regulation of nerve conduction and muscle contraction , particularly in the heart .
Chloride , the major extracellular anion , closely follows the metabolism of sodium , and changes in the acid - base balance of the body are reflected by changes in the chloride concentration .
Calcium , an important cation , provides the framework of bones and teeth in the form of calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate .
In the ionized form , calcium is essential for the functional mechanism of the clotting of blood , normal cardiac function , and regulation of neuromuscular irritability .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE This solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of electrolytes and water for hydration .
CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of Ringer ’ s Injection USP is contraindicated in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) receiving concomitant treatment with ceftriaxone , even if separate infusion lines are used , due to the risk of fatal ceftriaxone - calcium salt precipitation in the neonate ’ s bloodstream [ see Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
This solution is contraindicated where the administration of sodium , potassium , calcium , or chloride could be clinically detrimental .
WARNINGS Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions , such as Ringer ’ s Injection USP , in the same intravenous administration line .
Do not administer ceftriaxone simultaneously with Ringer ’ s Injection USP via a Y - site .
Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used .
Ringer ’ s Injection USP is contraindicated in neonates receiving ceftriaxone .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and Ringer ’ s Injection USP may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid .
[ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
The administration of intravenous solutions can cause fluid and / or solute overload resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentration .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there is sodium retention with edema .
Solutions containing potassium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with hyperkalemia , severe renal failure , and in conditions in which potassium retention is present .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium or potassium ions may result in sodium or potassium retention .
Solutions containing calcium ions should not be administered through the same administration set as blood because of the likelihood of coagulation .
PRECAUTIONS General Extraordinary electrolytes losses such as may occur during protracted nasogastric suction , vomiting , diarrhea or gastrointestinal fistula drainage may necessitate additional electrolyte supplementation .
Sodium - containing solutions should be administered with caution to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin , or to other salt - retaining patients .
Potassium therapy should be guided primarily by serial electrocardiograms , especially in patients receiving digitalis .
Serum potassium levels are not necessarily indicative of tissue potassium levels .
Care should be exercised in administering solutions containing sodium or potassium to patients with renal or cardiovascular insufficiency , with or without congestive heart failure , particularly if they are postoperative or elderly .
Solutions containing potassium or calcium should be used with caution in the presence of cardiac disease , particularly in the presence of renal disease .
Parenteral calcium should be administered with extreme caution to patients receiving digitalis preparations .
To minimize the risk of possible incompatibilities arising from mixing this solution with other additives that may be prescribed , the final infusate should be inspected for cloudiness or precipitation immediately after mixing , prior to administration , and periodically during administration .
Do not use plastic container in series connection .
If administration is controlled by a pumping device , care must be taken to discontinue pumping action before the container runs dry or air embolism may result .
If administration is not controlled by a pumping device , refrain from applying excessive pressure ( > 300 mmHg ) causing distortion to the container such as wringing or twisting .
Such handling could result in breakage of the container .
This solution is intended for intravenous administration using sterile equipment .
It is recommended that intravenous administration apparatus be replaced at least once every 24 hours .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Laboratory Tests Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Significant deviations from normal concentrations may require the use of additional electrolyte supplements , or the use of electrolyte - free dextrose solutions to which individualized electrolyte supplements may be added .
Drug Interactions Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone - calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium - containing solutions , such as Ringer ’ s Injection USP , in the same intravenous administration line .
Do not administer ceftriaxone simultaneously with Ringer ’ s Injection USP via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and Ringer ’ s Injection USP may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Warnings , Dosage and Administration ] .
Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Pediatric Use , Dosage and Administration ] .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with Ringer ' s Injection USP have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Ringer ' s Injection USP .
It is also not known whether Ringer ' s Injection USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Ringer ' s Injection USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery As reported in the literature , Ringer ' s Injection USP has been administered during labor and delivery .
Caution should be exercised , and the fluid balance , glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and acid - base balance , of both mother and fetus should be evaluated periodically or whenever warranted by the condition of the patient or fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Ringer ' s Injection USP is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use Deaths have occurred in neonates ( 28 days of age or younger ) who received concomitant intravenous calcium - containing solutions with ceftriaxone resulting from calcium - ceftriaxone precipitates in the lungs and kidneys , even when separate infusion lines were used .
Ringer ’ s Injection USP is contraindicated in neonates receiving ceftriaxone [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions ] .
Safety and effectiveness of Ringer ' s Injection USP in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of electrolyte solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions , and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Ringer ' s Injection USP did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
Symptoms may result from an excess or deficit of one or more of the ions present in the solution ; therefore , frequent monitoring of electrolyte levels is essential .
Hypernatremia may be associated with edema and exacerbation of congestive heart failure due to the retention of water , resulting in an expanded extracellular fluid volume .
Reactions reported with the use of potassium - containing solutions include nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain and diarrhea .
The signs and symptoms of potassium intoxication include paresthesias of the extremities , areflexia , muscular or respiratory paralysis , mental confusion , weakness , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias , heart block , electrocardiographic abnormalities and cardiac arrest .
Potassium deficits result in disruption of neuromuscular function , and intestinal ileus and dilatation .
If infused in large amounts , chloride ions may cause a loss of bicarbonate ions , resulting in an acidifying effect .
Abnormally high plasma levels of calcium can result in depression , amnesia , headaches , drowsiness , disorientation , syncope , hallucinations , hypotonia of both skeletal and smooth muscles , dysphagia , arrhythmias and coma .
Calcium deficits can result in neuromuscular hyperexcitability , including cramps and convulsions .
The physician should also be alert to the possibility of adverse reactions to drug additives .
Prescribing information for drug additives to be administered in this manner should be consulted .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of a fluid or solute overload during parenteral therapy , reevaluate the patient ' s condition and institute appropriate corrective treatment .
In the event of overdosage with potassium - containing solutions , discontinue the infusion immediately and institute corrective therapy to reduce serum potassium levels .
Treatment of hyperkalemia includes the following : • Dextrose Injection USP , 10 % or 25 % , containing 10 units of crystalline insulin per 20 grams of dextrose administered intravenously , 300 to 500 mL per hour .
• Absorption and exchange of potassium using sodium or ammonium cycle cation exchange resin , orally and as retention enema .
• Hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis .
The use of potassium - containing foods or medications must be eliminated .
However , in cases of digitalization , too rapid a lowering of plasma potassium concentration can cause digitalis toxicity .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION This solution is for intravenous use only .
Dosage is to be directed by a physician and is dependent upon age , weight , clinical condition of the patient and laboratory determinations .
Frequent laboratory determinations and clinical evaluation are essential to monitor changes in blood glucose and electrolyte concentrations , and fluid and electrolyte balance during prolonged parenteral therapy .
The usual adult dose is one to two liters per day .
In the average adult , daily requirements of sodium and chloride are met by the infusion of one liter of 0 . 9 % sodium chloride ( 154 mEq each of sodium and chloride ) .
Fluid administration should be based on calculated maintenance or replacement fluid requirements for each patient .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with calcium - containing intravenous solutions such as Ringer ’ s Injection USP via a Y - site .
However , in patients other than neonates , ceftriaxone and Ringer ’ s Injection USP may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ see Contraindications , Warnings , Drug Interactions , Pediatric Use ] .
HOW SUPPLIED Ringer ' s Injection USP is supplied sterile and nonpyrogenic in EXCEL ® Containers packaged 12 per case .
NDC REF Size Ringer ' s Injection USP ( Canada DIN 01936034 ) 0264 - 7780 - 00 L7800 1000 mL Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
It is recommended that the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Rx only Revised : November 2021 EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
Directions for Use of EXCEL ® Container Caution : Do not use plastic container in series connection .
To Open Tear overwrap down at notch and remove solution container .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing solution container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below before preparing for administration .
NOTE : Before use , perform the following checks : • Inspect each container .
Read the label .
Ensure solution is the one ordered and is within the expiration date .
• Invert container and carefully inspect the solution in good light for cloudiness , haze , or particulate matter .
Any container which is suspect should not be used .
• Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
Preparation for Administration • Remove plastic protector from sterile set port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Some additives may be incompatible .
To Add Medication Before Solution Administration • Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle , puncture medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Squeeze and tap ports while ports are upright and mix solution and medication thoroughly .
To Add Medication During Solution Administration • Close clamp on the set .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 18 – 22 gauge needle of appropriate length ( at least 5 / 8 inch ) , puncture resealable medication port and inner diaphragm and inject .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by tapping and squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y36 - 003 - 024 LD - 497 - 3 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Container Label Ringer ' s Injection USP REF L7800 NDC 0264 - 7780 - 00 DIN 01936034 HK 22699 1000 mL EXCEL ® CONTAINER Each 100 mL contains : Sodium Chloride USP 0 . 86 g ; Calcium Chloride • 2H2O USP 0 . 033 g ; Potassium Chloride USP 0 . 03 g ; Water for Injection USP qs pH : 5 . 8 ( 5 . 0 - 7 . 5 ) ; Calc .
Osmolarity : 310 mOsmol / liter Electrolytes ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 147 ; K + 4 ; Ca + + 4 . 5 ; Cl - 156 Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Single dose container .
Do not use in series connection .
For intravenous use only .
Use only if solution is clear and container and seals are intact .
WARNINGS : Do Not Administer Simultaneously With Blood .
Some additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist .
When introducing additives , use aseptic techniques .
Mix thoroughly .
Do not store .
Recommended Storage : Room temperature ( 25 ° C ) .
Avoid excessive heat .
Protect from freezing .
See Package Insert .
Do not remove overwrap until ready for use .
After removing the overwrap , check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
Not made with natural rubber latex , PVC or DEHP .
Rx only [ MULTIMEDIA ] EXCEL is a registered trademark of B . Braun Medical Inc .
B . Braun Medical Inc .
Bethlehem , PA 18018 - 3524 USA 1 - 800 - 227 - 2862 www . bbraun . com In Canada , distributed by : B . Braun of Canada , Ltd .
Scarborough , Ontario M1H 2W4 Y94 - 003 - 233 LD - 139 - 3 EXP LOT [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
