Contraindications ( 4 ) 6 / 2021 • Warnings and Precautions , Melanoma - removal ( 5 . 9 ) 6 / 2021 Risk for Patients with Phenylketonuria ( 5 . 10 ) 6 / 2021 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE ZELAPAR is indicated as an adjunct in the management of patients with Parkinson ’ s disease being treated with levodopa / carbidopa who exhibit deterioration in the quality of their response to this therapy .
There is no evidence from controlled studies that ZELAPAR has any beneficial effect in the absence of concurrent levodopa therapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
ZELAPAR , a monoamine oxidase type B ( MAO - B ) inhibitor , is indicated as an adjunct in the management of patients with Parkinson ’ s disease being treated with levodopa / carbidopa who exhibit deterioration in the quality of their response to this therapy ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • • Initiate treatment with 1 . 25 mg given once a day for at least 6 weeks ; after 6 weeks , the dose may be escalated to 2 . 5 mg once a day ( 2 . 1 ) • • Place tablet on top of the tongue where the tablet will disintegrate in seconds ; avoid food and liquid intake 5 minutes before and after each dose ( 2 . 1 ) • • In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment , the dose should be reduced to 1 . 25 mg ; ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe ( Child - Pugh score > 9 ) hepatic impairment ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Dosage Recommendations Initiate treatment with 1 . 25 mg given once a day for at least 6 weeks .
After 6 weeks , the dose may be increased to 2 . 5 mg given once a day if a desired benefit has not been achieved and the patient is tolerating ZELAPAR .
There is no evidence that doses greater than 2 . 5 mg a day provide additional benefit , and they should ordinarily be avoided because of the potential increased risk of adverse events .
Take ZELAPAR in the morning before breakfast and without liquid .
Patients should avoid ingesting food or liquids for 5 minutes before and after taking ZELAPAR .
Patients should not attempt to push ZELAPAR through the foil backing .
Patients should PEEL BACK the backing of one or two blisters ( as prescribed ) with dry hands , and GENTLY remove the tablet ( s ) .
Patients should IMMEDIATELY place the ZELAPAR tablet ( s ) on top of the tongue where it will disintegrate in seconds .
2 . 2 Patients with Hepatic Impairment In patients with mild to moderate hepatic disease ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 9 ) , the daily dose of ZELAPAR should be reduced ( from 2 . 5 to 1 . 25 mg daily ) , depending on the clinical response .
ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score greater than 9 ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Patients with Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of ZELAPAR is required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] 30 to 89 mL / min ) .
The maintenance dose of ZELAPAR ( 1 . 25 mg or 2 . 5 mg ) is determined by the individual clinical response .
ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment and patients with end - stage renal disease [ ESRD ] ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] < 30 mL / min ) [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS ZELAPAR Orally Disintegrating Tablets are pale yellow , imprinted with a stylized “ V ” , and contain 1 . 25 mg selegiline hydrochloride .
Orally Disintegrating Tablets : 1 . 25 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS ZELAPAR is contraindicated in patients with : • • Concomitant use of opioid drugs ( e . g . , meperidine , tramadol , or methadone ) .
Serotonin syndrome , a potentially serious condition , which can result in death , has been reported with concomitant use of meperidine ( e . g . , Demerol and other trade names ) .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with these medications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
• • Concomitant use of other drugs in the monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) class or other drugs that are potent inhibitors of monoamine oxidase , including linezolid ) , because of an increased risk for hypertensive crisis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with any MAO inhibitor .
• • Concomitant use of St . John ’ s wort or cyclobenzaprine ( a tricyclic muscle relaxant ) .
• • Concomitant use of dextromethorphan , because of reported episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior .
ZELAPAR is contraindicated in patients using the following drugs : opioid drugs ( e . g . , meperidine , tramadol , methadone ) , MAO inhibitors including selective MAO - B inhibitors , dextromethorphan , St . John ’ s wort , and cyclobenzaprine ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • May cause hypertension above 2 . 5 mg / day ( 5 . 1 ) • • May cause serotonin syndrome when used with antidepressants ( 5 . 2 ) • • May cause falling asleep during activities of daily living ( 5 . 3 ) • • May cause hypotension / orthostatic hypotension ( 5 . 4 ) • • May cause or exacerbate dyskinesia ( 5 . 5 ) • • May cause hallucinations and psychotic - like behavior ( 5 . 6 ) • • May cause problems with impulse control and compulsive behaviors ( 5 . 7 ) • • Abrupt discontinuation may cause hyperpyrexia and confusion ( 5 . 8 ) • • May cause irritation of the buccal mucosa ( 5 . 9 ) • • Increased risk for patients with phenylketonuria ( 5 . 10 ) 5 . 1 Hypertension ZELAPAR should not be used at daily doses exceeding those recommended ( 2 . 5 mg / day ) because of the risks associated with non - selective inhibition of MAO [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The selectivity of ZELAPAR for MAO - B may not be absolute even at the recommended daily dose of 2 . 5 mg daily .
The selectivity of MAO - B inhibitors typically decreases , and it is ultimately lost as the dose is increased beyond recommended doses .
Hypertensive reactions associated with ingestion of tyramine - containing foods have been reported even in patients taking the recommended daily dose of swallowed selegiline , a dose which is generally believed to be selective for MAO - B .
Selectivity for MAO - B inhibition is gradually lost with increasing daily doses .
An increase in tyramine sensitivity for blood pressure responses appears to begin at a dose of 5 mg ZELAPAR daily [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 5 ) ] .
However , the precise dose at which ZELAPAR becomes a non - selective inhibitor of all MAO enzymes in individual patients is unknown .
Reports of hypertensive reactions have occurred in patients who ingested tyramine - containing consumables ( i . e . , food or drink ) while receiving swallowed selegiline at the recommended dose ( a dose believed to be relatively selective for MAO - B ) .
The safe use of ZELAPAR at doses above 2 . 5 mg daily without dietary tyramine restrictions has not been established .
A pharmacodynamic study showed increased tyramine sensitivity for increasing blood pressure and decreased selectivity for MAO - B with dosing above the recommended level ( 2 . 5 mg daily ) [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication ( ephedrine ) .
After starting ZELAPAR , monitor patients for new onset hypertension or exacerbation of hypertension that is not adequately controlled .
5 . 2 Serotonin Syndrome Serotonin syndrome and hyperpyrexia have been reported with the combined treatment of an antidepressant ( e . g . , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors - SSRIs , serotonin - norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors - SNRIs , tricyclic antidepressants , tetracyclic antidepressants , triazolopyridine antidepressants ) and a non - selective MAOI ( e . g . , phenelzine , tranylcypromine ) or selective MAO - B inhibitors , such as selegiline ( ELDEPRYL ) , rasagiline ( AZILECT ) , and olanzapine ( Zydis ) selegiline ( ZELAPAR ) .
Serotonin syndrome is a potentially serious condition , which can result in death .
Typical clinical signs and symptoms include behavioral and cognitive / mental status changes ( e . g . , confusion , hypomania , hallucinations , agitation , delirium , headache , and coma ) , autonomic effects ( e . g . , syncope , shivering , sweating , high fever / hyperthermia , hypertension , hypotension , tachycardia , nausea , diarrhea ) , and somatic effects ( e . g . , muscular rigidity , myoclonus , muscle twitching , hyperreflexia manifested by clonus , and tremor ) .
In the post - marketing period , fatal and non - fatal cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients treated with antidepressants concomitantly with ZELAPAR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 2 , 7 . 3 ) ] .
Clinical studies of ZELAPAR did not allow concomitant use of any selective serotonin re - uptake inhibitor ( e . g . , fluoxetine - Prozac , fluvoxamine - Luvox , paroxetine - Paxil , sertraline , venlafaxine - Effexor , or nefazodone - Serzone ) or any non - selective serotonin reuptake inhibiting antidepressant drug ( except when taken at a low dose and only at night for the purpose of effective sleep ) with ZELAPAR .
Because the mechanisms responsible for these reactions are not fully understood , avoid the combination of ZELAPAR with any antidepressant .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with a SSRI , SNRI , tricyclic , tetracyclic , or triazolopyridine antidepressant .
In patients taking antidepressants with a long half - life ( e . g . , fluoxetine and its active metabolite ) , allow at least five weeks ( perhaps longer , especially if fluoxetine has been prescribed chronically and / or at higher doses ) to elapse between discontinuation of fluoxetine and initiation of ZELAPAR [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 6 ) ] .
5 . 3 Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Patients with Parkinson ’ s disease treated with ZELAPAR or other drugs increasing dopaminergic tone have reported falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living , including the operation of motor vehicles , which sometimes resulted in accidents .
Although many of these patients reported somnolence , some did not perceive warning signs , such as excessive drowsiness , and believed that they were alert immediately prior to the event .
Some of these events have been reported as late as one year after initiation of treatment .
It has been reported that falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living always occurs in a setting of pre - existing somnolence , although patients may not give such a history .
For this reason , prescribers should reassess patients for drowsiness or sleepiness especially since some of the events occur well after the start of treatment .
Somnolence may occur in patients receiving ZELAPAR .
There was an increased risk for somnolence in geriatric patients ( ≥ 65 years ) vs . non - geriatric patients treated with ZELAPAR .
Prescribers should also be aware that patients may not acknowledge drowsiness or sleepiness until directly questioned about drowsiness or sleepiness during specific activities .
Patients should be advised to exercise caution while driving , operating machines , or working at heights during treatment with ZELAPAR .
Patients who have already experienced somnolence and / or an episode of sudden sleep onset should not participate in these activities during treatment with ZELAPAR .
Before initiating treatment with ZELAPAR , advise patients about the potential to develop drowsiness and specifically ask about factors that may increase this risk , such as concomitant sedating medications and the presence of sleep disorders .
If a patient develops daytime sleepiness or episodes of falling asleep during activities that require active participation ( e . g . , conversations , eating , etc . ) , ZELAPAR should ordinarily be discontinued .
If a decision is made to continue ZELAPAR , patients should be advised not to drive and to avoid other potentially dangerous activities .
There is insufficient information to establish whether dose reduction will eliminate episodes of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
5 . 4 Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension Assessments of orthostatic ( supine and standing ) blood pressures at different times throughout the 12 week study period in two controlled trials showed that the frequency of orthostatic hypotension ( > 20 mm Hg decrease in systolic blood pressure and / or > 10 mm Hg decrease in diastolic blood pressure ) was greater with ZELAPAR treatment than with placebo treatment .
Patients taking ZELAPAR were most likely to experience a decline in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at 8 weeks ( 2 weeks after initiating 2 . 5 mg ZELAPAR ) .
At that time , the incidence of systolic orthostatic hypotension was about 21 % in ZELAPAR - treated patients and 9 % in placebo - treated patients .
The incidence of diastolic orthostatic hypotension was about 12 % in ZELAPAR - treated patients and about 4 % in placebo - treated patients .
Thus , it appears that there may be an increased risk for orthostatic hypotension in the period after increasing the daily dose of ZELAPAR from 1 . 25 to 2 . 5 mg .
The incidence of orthostatic hypotension was higher in geriatric patients ( ≥ 65 years ) than in non - geriatric patients .
In the geriatric patients , orthostatic hypotension occurred in about 3 % of ZELAPAR - treated patients compared to 0 % of placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Dyskinesia ZELAPAR may potentiate dopaminergic side effects of levodopa and may cause dyskinesia or exacerbate preexisting dyskinesia .
In controlled trials , the incidence of dyskinesia was 6 % in ZELAPAR - treated patients and 3 % in placebo - treated patients .
Decreasing the dose of levodopa may lessen dyskinesia .
The incidence of dyskinesia causing study discontinuation was greater on ZELAPAR than on placebo .
5 . 6 Hallucinations / Psychotic - Like Behavior In controlled trials , hallucination was reported by 4 % of ZELAPAR - treated patients and 2 % in placebo - treated patients .
Hallucinations led to drug discontinuation and premature withdrawal from clinical trials in about 1 % of ZELAPAR - treated patients , compared to no patient on placebo .
Postmarketing reports indicate that patients may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes , which may be severe , including psychotic - like behavior during ZELAPAR treatment or after starting or increasing the dose of ZELAPAR .
Other drugs prescribed to improve the symptoms of Parkinson ’ s disease can have similar effects on thinking and behavior .
This abnormal thinking and behavior can consist of one or more of a variety of manifestations including paranoid ideation , delusions , hallucinations , confusion , psychotic - like behavior , disorientation , aggressive behavior , agitation , and delirium .
Patients with a major psychotic disorder should ordinarily not be treated with ZELAPAR because of the risk of exacerbating psychosis .
In addition , certain medications used to treat psychosis may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson ' s disease and may decrease the effectiveness of ZELAPAR [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 8 ) ] .
5 . 7 Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors Case reports suggest that patients can experience intense urges to gamble , increased sexual urges , intense urges to spend money , binge eating , and / or other intense urges , and the inability to control these urges while taking one or more of the medications , including ZELAPAR , that increase central dopaminergic tone and that are generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease .
In some cases , although not all , these urges were reported to have stopped when the dose was reduced or the medication was discontinued .
Because patients may not recognize these behaviors as abnormal , it is important for prescribers to specifically ask patients or their caregivers about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges , uncontrolled spending , binge eating , or other urges while being treated with ZELAPAR .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking ZELAPAR .
5 . 8 Withdrawal Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Although not reported with ZELAPAR in the clinical development program , a symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome ( characterized by elevated temperature , muscular rigidity , altered consciousness , and autonomic instability ) , with no other obvious etiology , has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction , withdrawal of , or changes in antiparkinsonian therapy .
5 . 9 Irritation of the Buccal Mucosa In the controlled clinical trials , periodic examinations of the tongue and oral mucosa were performed .
At the end of the study , the frequency of mild oropharyngeal abnormality ( e . g . , swallowing pain , mouth pain , discrete areas of focal reddening , multiple foci of reddening , edema , and / or ulceration ) in patients without similar abnormality at baseline was 10 % in ZELAPAR - treated patients compared to 3 % in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 10 Risk for Patients with Phenylketonuria Phenylalanine can be harmful to patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) .
ZELAPAR contains phenylalanine , a component of aspartame .
Each ZELAPAR 1 . 25 mg tablet contains 1 . 25 mg phenylalanine .
Patients taking the 2 . 5 mg dose of ZELAPAR will receive 2 . 5 mg phenylalanine .
Before prescribing ZELAPAR to a patient with PKU , consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources , including ZELAPAR .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in the Warnings and Precautions section of labeling : • • Risk for Hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Risk of Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • • Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • • Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • • Dyskinesia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • • Hallucinations / Psychotic - Like Behavior [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • • Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • • Withdrawal Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • • Irritation of the Buccal Mucosa [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] • • Risk for Patients with Phenylketonuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( incidence at least 3 % greater than on placebo ) are constipation , skin disorders , vomiting , dizziness , dyskinesia , insomnia , dyspnea , myalgia , and rash ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bausch Health US , LLC at 1 - 800 - 321 - 4576 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , the incidence of adverse reactions ( number of unique patients experiencing an adverse reaction per total number of patients treated ) observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the incidence of adverse reactions observed in clinical practice .
Because the controlled trials performed during premarketing development both used a titration design ( 1 . 25 mg per day for 6 weeks , followed by 2 . 5 mg per day for 6 weeks ) , with a resultant confounding of time and dose , it was impossible to adequately evaluate the effects of dose on the incidence of adverse reactions .
The most common adverse reactions ( treatment difference incidence at least 3 % greater than placebo incidence ) reported in the double - blind , placebo - controlled trials during ZELAPAR treatment were constipation , skin disorders , vomiting , dizziness , dyskinesia , insomnia , dyspnea , myalgia , and rash ( see Table 1 ) .
Of the 194 patients treated with ZELAPAR in the double - blind , placebo - controlled trials , 5 % discontinued due to adverse reactions compared to 1 % of the 98 patients who received placebo .
Most common adverse reactions causing discontinuation of treatment included dizziness , chest pain , accidental injury , and myasthenia .
Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials Table 1 lists the adverse reactions reported in the placebo - controlled trials after at least one dose of ZELAPAR ( incidence 2 % or greater ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions [ 1 ] in Double - Blind , Placebo - Controlled Trials with an Incidence ≥ 2 % of Patients Treated with ZELAPAR and More Frequent than the Placebo GroupBody System / Adverse Event ZELAPAR 1 . 25 / 2 . 5 mg N = 194 % Placebo N = 98 % Body as a Whole Pain 8 7 Back Pain 5 3 Chest Pain 2 0 Cardiovascular System Hypertension 3 2 Digestive System Nausea 11 9 Stomatitis 5 4 Dyspepsia 5 3 Constipation 4 0 Vomiting 3 0 Diarrhea 2 1 Dysphagia 2 1 Flatulence 2 1 Tooth Disorder 2 1 Hemic and Lymphatic System Ecchymosis 2 0 Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders Hypokalemia 2 0 Musculoskeletal System Leg Cramps 3 1 Myalgia 3 0 Nervous System Dizziness 11 8 Headache 7 6 Insomnia 7 4 Dyskinesia 6 3 Dry Mouth 4 2 Hallucinations 4 2 Somnolence 3 2 Tremor 3 1 Ataxia 3 1 Depression 2 1 Respiratory System Pharyngitis 4 2 Rhinitis 7 6 Dyspnea 3 0 Skin and Appendages Rash 4 1 Skin Disorders [ 2 ] 6 2 [ 1 ] Patients may have reported multiple adverse experiences during the study or at discontinuation ; thus patients may be included in more than one category .
[ 2 ] Skin disorders represent any new skin abnormality that would not be characterized as rash or neoplastic lesion .
These include events such as skin ulcer , fungal dermatitis , skin hypertrophy , contact dermatitis , herpes simplex , dry skin , sweating , urticaria , and pruritus .
Certain adverse reactions were reported at a higher frequency by patients ≥ 65 years of age compared to patients < 65 years [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
No consistent differences in the incidences of adverse reactions were observed between male and female patients .
There were insufficient data to assess the impact of race on the incidence of adverse reactions .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Opioid Drugs Because serious , sometimes fatal reactions have been precipitated with concomitant use of opioid drugs ( e . g . , meperidine and its derivatives , methadone , or tramadol ) and MAOIs , including selective MAO - B inhibitors , concomitant use of these drugs with ZELAPAR is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with these drugs .
7 . 2 Dextromethorphan The combination of MAO inhibitors and dextromethorphan has been reported to cause brief episodes of psychosis or bizarre behavior .
Therefore , in view of ZELAPAR ’ s MAO inhibitory activity , dextromethorphan should not be used concomitantly with ZELAPAR [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 3 MAO Inhibitors ZELAPAR is contraindicated for concomitant use with other drugs in the MAOI class or other drugs that are potent inhibitors of monoamine oxidase ( including linezolid , an oxazolidinone antibacterial , which also has reversible nonselective MAO inhibition activity ) because of the increased risk for hypertensive crisis [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
At least 14 days should elapse between discontinuation of ZELAPAR and initiation of treatment with other MAOIs .
7 . 4 Sympathomimetic Medications Uncontrolled hypertension , including hypertensive crisis , has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication ( ephedrine ) .
7 . 5 Tyramine / Selegiline Interaction The enzyme , monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) ( primarily type A ) , in the gastrointestinal tract and liver provides protection from ingested amines ( e . g . , tyramine ) that , if absorbed , have the capacity to cause uncontrolled hypertension ( tyramine reaction ) .
If MAO is inhibited in the gastrointestinal tract and liver , ingestion of exogenous amines contained in some foods such as fermented cheese , herring , or over - the - counter cough / cold medicines may be absorbed systemically causing release of norepinephrine and a rise in systemic blood pressure with the potential for uncontrolled hypertension .
Selective MAO - B inhibitors lose their selectivity for MAO - B when taken in doses higher than recommended .
Non - selective MAO - A inhibitors or MAO - B inhibitors in higher than recommended doses may result in MAO - A inhibition in the gastrointestinal tract and liver .
Results of a tyramine challenge study indicate that ZELAPAR is relatively selective for MAO - B at the recommended dose .
In most cases , there is no need for dietary tyramine restriction in patients prescribed ZELAPAR [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] at the recommended dose .
Because the selectivity for inhibiting MAO - B diminishes as the dose of ZELAPAR is increased above the recommended daily dose , patients should not take more than 2 . 5 mg of ZELAPAR daily .
Reports of hypertensive reactions have occurred in patients who ingested tyramine - containing consumables ( i . e . , food or drink ) while receiving swallowed selegiline at the recommended dose ( a dose believed to be relatively selective for MAO - B ) .
Hypertensive crisis has also been reported with ZELAPAR use that was not above the recommended dosing .
Uncontrolled hypertension has been reported when taking the recommended dose of swallowed selegiline and a sympathomimetic medication ( ephedrine ) .
7 . 6 Tricyclic Antidepressants and Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors Severe toxicity has also been reported in patients receiving the combination of tricyclic antidepressants and swallowed selegiline , or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and swallowed selegiline [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
7 . 7 Drugs that Induce CYP450 Adequate studies have not been done investigating the effect of CYP3A4 inducers on selegiline .
Drugs that induce CYP3A4 ( e . g . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , nafcillin , phenobarbital , and rifampin ) should be used with caution .
7 . 8 Dopaminergic Antagonists It is possible that dopamine antagonists , such as antipsychotics or metoclopramide , could diminish the effectiveness of ZELAPAR .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • • Pregnancy : Based on animal data , may cause fetal harm ( 8 . 1 ) • • Renal Impairment : ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) ( 2 . 3 , 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no adequate data on the developmental risk associated with the use of ZELAPAR in pregnant women .
In animal studies , administration of selegiline during pregnancy was associated with developmental toxicity ( decreased embryofetal and postnatal offspring growth and survival ) at doses greater than those used clinically .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and of miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in the indicated population is unknown .
Data Animal Data In rats administered selegiline orally ( 5 , 10 , and 40 mg / kg / day ) throughout the period of organogenesis , a decrease in fetal body weight was observed at the mid and high doses .
The no - effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rats ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 20 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 2 . 5 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
In rabbits administered selegiline orally ( 5 , 30 , and 60 mg / kg / day ) throughout the period of organogenesis , embryolethality was observed at the highest dose tested and reduced fetal body weight was observed at the mid and high doses .
The no - effect dose for embryofetal developmental toxicity in rabbits ( 5 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 40 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
In rats administered selegiline orally ( 0 . 3 , 1 , and 10 mg / kg / day ) during gestation and lactation , decreases in offspring survival and body weights were observed at the highest dose tested .
The no - effect dose for pre - and postnatal developmental toxicity ( 1 mg / kg / day ) is approximately 4 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of selegiline or its metabolites in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
Selegiline and metabolites were detected in rat milk at levels higher than those in maternal plasma .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants from ZELAPAR , including the potential for hypertensive reactions , advise a woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with ZELAPAR and for 7 days after the final dose .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use The overall incidence of adverse reactions was increased in geriatric patients ( ≥ 65 years ) compared to non - geriatric patients ( < 65 years ) .
Clinical studies did not include a sufficient number of geriatric subjects older than 75 years to determine whether they respond differently to ZELAPAR .
Analysis of adverse reaction incidence in each group was conducted to calculate and compare relative risk ( ZELAPAR % / Placebo % ) for each treatment .
The relative risk was ≥ 2 fold higher for ZELAPAR treatment in the geriatric patients compared to the non - geriatric patients for hypertension , orthostatic / postural hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
The incidence of orthostatic hypotension by measurement of blood pressure was also higher in geriatric patients than in non - geriatric patients .
In the geriatric patients , the treatment difference for incidence of orthostatic hypotension determined by supine and standing blood measurements was 3 % .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 9 ) may require a dose reduction of ZELAPAR ( from 2 . 5 to 1 . 25 mg daily ) depending on the clinical response .
ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score > 9 ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of ZELAPAR is required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance [ CLcr ] 30 to 89 mL / min ) .
ZELAPAR is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment and patients with end - stage renal disease [ ESRD ] ( CLcr < 30 mL / min ) [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Selegiline Experience gained during development of the 5 mg swallowed dosage form reveals that some individuals exposed to doses of 600 mg of d , l - selegiline suffered severe hypotension and psychomotor agitation .
Small increments in serum BUN and creatinine have been observed in patients who received ZELAPAR 10 mg daily ( 4 times the recommended dose ) .
Since the selective inhibition of MAO - B by ZELAPAR is achieved only at doses in the range recommended for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease ( e . g . , 2 . 5 mg / day ) , overdoses are likely to cause significant inhibition of both MAO - A and MAO - B .
Consequently , the signs and symptoms of overdose may resemble those observed with marketed non - selective MAO inhibitors [ e . g . , tranylcypromine ( PARNATE ® ) , isocarboxazid ( MARPLAN ® ) , and phenelzine ( NARDIL ® ) ] .
For this reason , in cases of overdose with selegiline , dietary tyramine restriction should be observed for several weeks to avoid the risk of a hypertensive reaction .
10 . 2 Overdose with Non - selective MAO Inhibitors NOTE : The following description of presenting symptoms and clinical course is based upon overdose descriptions of non - selective MAO inhibitors and does not include information from patients who have overdosed on oral selegiline or ZELAPAR .
Characteristically , signs and symptoms of non - selective MAO inhibitor overdose may not appear immediately .
Delays of up to 12 hours between ingestion of drug and the appearance of signs may occur .
Importantly , the peak intensity of the syndrome may not be reached for upwards of a day following the overdose .
Death has been reported following overdosage .
Therefore , immediate hospitalization , with continuous patient observation and monitoring for a period of at least two days following the ingestion of such drugs in overdose , is strongly recommended .
The clinical picture of MAO inhibitor overdose varies considerably ; its severity may be a function of the amount of drug consumed .
The central nervous and cardiovascular systems are prominently involved .
Signs and symptoms of overdosage may include , alone or in combination , any of the following : drowsiness , dizziness , faintness , irritability , hyperactivity , agitation , severe headache , hallucinations , trismus , opisthotonos , convulsions , and coma ; rapid and irregular pulse , hypertension , hypotension and vascular collapse ; precordial pain , respiratory depression and failure , hyperpyrexia , diaphoresis , and cool , clammy skin .
10 . 3 Treatment or Management of Overdose Treatment of overdose with non - selective MAO inhibitors is symptomatic and supportive .
Induction of emesis or gastric lavage with instillation of charcoal slurry may be helpful in early poisoning , provided the airway has been protected against aspiration .
Signs and symptoms of central nervous system stimulation , including convulsions , should be treated with diazepam , given slowly intravenously .
Phenothiazine derivatives and central nervous system stimulants should be avoided .
Hypotension and vascular collapse should be treated with intravenous fluids and , if necessary , blood pressure titration with an intravenous infusion of a dilute pressor agent .
It should be noted that adrenergic agents may produce a markedly increased pressor response .
Support respiration , including management of the airway , use of supplemental oxygen , and mechanical ventilatory assistance , as required .
Body temperature should be monitored closely .
Intensive management of hyperpyrexia may be required .
Maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance is essential .
11 DESCRIPTION ZELAPAR Orally Disintegrating Tablets contain selegiline hydrochloride , a levorotatory acetylenic derivative of phenethylamine .
Selegiline hydrochloride is described chemically as : ( - ) - ( R ) - N , α - dimethyl - N - 2 - propynylphenethylamine hydrochloride and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C13H17N ∙ HCl , representing a molecular weight of 223 . 74 .
Selegiline hydrochloride is a white to almost white crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water and in methanol , slightly soluble in acetone .
ZELAPAR Orally Disintegrating Tablets are available for oral administration ( not to be swallowed ) in a strength of 1 . 25 mg .
Each lyophilized orally disintegrating tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : aspartame , citric acid , gelatin , glycine , mannitol , opatint yellow , purified water , and grapefruit flavor .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Selegiline is an irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) , which regulates the metabolic degradation of catecholamines and serotonin in the central nervous system and peripheral tissues .
At recommended doses , selegiline is selective for MAO type B ( MAO - B ) , the major form in the brain .
Inhibition of MAO - B activity , by blocking the catabolism of dopamine , may result in increased dopamine levels ; however , there is evidence that selegiline may act through other mechanisms to increase dopaminergic activity .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics A pharmacodynamic study investigating daily ZELAPAR doses of 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg , and 10 mg for tyramine sensitivity showed that increased tyramine sensitivity resulting in increased blood pressure ( because of MAO - A inhibition and decreased selectivity for MAO - B ) occurred with dosing above the recommended level ( 2 . 5 mg daily ) .
An increase in tyramine sensitivity for blood pressure responses appears to begin at a dose of 5 mg ZELAPAR daily [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption ZELAPAR disintegrates within seconds after placement on the tongue and is rapidly absorbed .
Detectable levels of selegiline from ZELAPAR have been measured at 5 minutes after administration , the earliest time point examined .
Selegiline is more rapidly absorbed from the 1 . 25 or 2 . 5 mg dose of ZELAPAR ( Tmax range : 10 - 15 minutes ) than from the swallowed 5 mg selegiline tablet ( Tmax range : 40 - 90 minutes ) .
Mean ( SD ) maximum plasma concentrations of 3 . 34 ( 1 . 68 ) and 4 . 47 ( 2 . 56 ) ng / mL are reached after single dose of 1 . 25 and 2 . 5 mg ZELAPAR compared to 1 . 12 ng / mL ( 1 . 48 ) for the swallowed 5 mg selegiline tablets ( given as 5 mg bid ) .
On a dose - normalized basis , the relative bioavailability of selegiline from ZELAPAR is greater than from the swallowed formulation .
The pre - gastric absorption from ZELAPAR and the avoidance of first - pass metabolism results in higher concentrations of selegiline and lower concentrations of the metabolites compared to the 5 mg swallowed selegiline tablet .
Plasma Cmax and AUC of ZELAPAR were dose proportional at doses between 2 . 5 and 10 mg daily .
Food Effects When ZELAPAR is taken with food , the Cmax and AUC of selegiline are about 60 % of those seen when ZELAPAR is taken in the fasted state .
Since ZELAPAR is placed on the tongue and absorbed through the oral mucosa , the intake of food and liquid should be avoided 5 minutes before and after ZELAPAR administration [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Distribution Up to 85 % of plasma selegiline is reversibly bound to proteins .
Metabolism Following a single dose , the median elimination half - life of selegiline was 1 . 3 hours at the 1 . 25 mg dose .
Under steady - state conditions , the median elimination half - life increases to 10 hours .
Upon repeat dosing , accumulation in the plasma concentration of selegiline is observed both with ZELAPAR and the swallowed 5 mg tablet .
Steady state is achieved after 8 days .
Selegiline is metabolized in vivo to l - methamphetamine and N - desmethylselegiline and subsequently to l - amphetamine ; which in turn are further metabolized to their hydroxymetabolites .
ZELAPAR also produces a smaller fraction of the administered dose recoverable as the metabolites than the conventional , swallowed formulation of selegiline .
In vitro metabolism studies indicate that CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 are involved in the metabolism of selegiline .
CYP2A6 may play a minor role in the metabolism .
Elimination Following metabolism in the liver , selegiline is excreted primarily in the urine as metabolites ( mainly as l - methamphetamine ) and as a small amount in the feces .
Specific Populations Age : The effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of selegiline following ZELAPAR administration has not been adequately characterized .
Gender : There are no differences between male and female subjects in overall ( AUC ∞ ) , time to maximum exposure ( Tmax ) , and elimination half - life ( t ½ ) after administration of ZELAPAR .
Female subjects have an approximate 25 % decrease in Cmax compared to male subjects .
However , since the overall exposure ( AUC ∞ ) is not different between the genders , this pharmacokinetic difference is not likely to be clinically relevant .
Race : No studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of race on the pharmacokinetics of ZELAPAR .
Renal Impairment : Following once - daily dosing of ZELAPAR 2 . 5 mg to selegiline steady - state ( 10 days ) in 6 subjects with mild renal impairment ( CLcr > 50 to 89 mL / min ) and in 6 subjects with moderate renal impairment ( CLcr > 30 to 50 mL / min ) , AUC and Cmax of selegiline and desmethylselegiline were not substantially different from healthy subjects ; however , methamphetamine and amphetamine exposures were increased by 34 - 67 % in subjects with moderate renal impairment .
Following once - daily dosing of ZELAPAR 1 . 25 mg to steady - state ( 10 days ) in 6 end - stage renal disease patients , off dialysis , selegiline exposure was not substantially different from that in healthy subjects , however methamphetamine and amphetamine exposures were increased approximately 4 - fold compared to healthy subjects [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : Subjects with mild hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 5 to 6 ) , received once - daily dosing of ZELAPAR 2 . 5 mg to selegiline until they attained steady - state ( 10 days ) .
The AUC and Cmax of selegiline were 1 . 5 - fold higher and the AUC and Cmax of the metabolite desmethylselegiline were 1 . 4 - fold and 1 . 2 - fold higher .
In subjects with moderate hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score 7 to 9 ) , the AUC of selegiline and desmethylselegiline increased 1 . 5 - fold and 1 . 8 - fold , respectively , whereas the Cmax of selegiline and desmethylselegiline were comparable to healthy subjects .
Patients with severe hepatic impairment ( Child - Pugh score > 9 ) had a 4 - fold increased AUC of selegiline , 3 - fold increased Cmax of selegiline , a 1 . 25 - fold increased AUC of desmethylselegiline and 50 % reduced Cmax of desmethylselegiline .
Methamphetamine and amphetamine metabolite AUC values were not affected by liver dysfunction [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Drug Interactions No studies have been conducted to evaluate drug interactions on the pharmacokinetics of ZELAPAR .
Effect of CYP3A inhibitor itraconazole : Itraconazole ( 200 mg once daily ) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of selegiline ( single 10 mg oral , swallowed dose ) .
Although adequate studies to investigate the effect of CYP3A4 - inducers on selegiline have not been performed , drugs that induce CYP3A4 ( e . g . , phenytoin , carbamazepine , nafcillin , phenobarbital , and rifampin ) should be used with caution .
Drug Interaction Studies No drug interaction studies have been conducted to evaluate the effects of other drugs on the pharmacokinetics of ZELAPAR or the effect of selegiline on other drugs .
In vitro studies have demonstrated that selegiline is not an inhibitor of CYP450 enzymes .
Selegiline and two of its metabolites , methamphetamine and desmethylselegiline , have little or no potential to induce CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 / 5 under clinical conditions .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Carcinogenicity studies of orally administered selegiline are not available for ZELAPAR .
Carcinogenicity studies of selegiline have not been conducted using the buccal route .
Mutagenesis Selegiline was negative in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation ( Ames ) assay in and the in vivo micronucleus assay .
In the in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in mammalian cells , selegiline was negative in the absence of metabolic activation but was clastogenic in the presence of metabolic activation .
Impairment of Fertility When selegiline was administered orally to male ( 5 , 10 , and 40 mg / kg / day ) and female ( 1 , 5 , and 25 mg / kg / day ) rats prior to and during mating and continuing in females to gestation day 7 , a decreased number of implantations was observed at the highest doses tested .
In males , a reduction in sperm count and density was observed at the highest dose tested .
The no - effect doses for reproductive impairment in rats ( 10 mg / kg / day in males and 5 mg / kg / day in females ) are approximately 40 ( males ) and 20 ( females ) times the maximum recommended human dose of 2 . 5 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis .
No fertility studies have been conducted with selegiline using the buccal route .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The effectiveness of ZELAPAR as an adjunct to levodopa / carbidopa in the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease was established in a multicenter , randomized , placebo - controlled trial ( n = 140 ; 94 received ZELAPAR , 46 received placebo ) of three months ’ duration .
Patients randomized to ZELAPAR received a daily dose of 1 . 25 mg for the first 6 weeks , and a daily dose of 2 . 5 mg for the last 6 weeks .
All patients were treated with concomitant levodopa products and could additionally have been on concomitant dopamine agonists , anticholinergics , amantadine , or any combination of these during the trial .
COMT ( catechol - O - methyl - transferase ) inhibitors were not allowed .
Patients with idiopathic Parkinson ’ s disease receiving levodopa were enrolled if they demonstrated an average of at least 3 hours of “ OFF ” time per day on weekly diaries collected during a 2 - week screening period .
The patients enrolled had a mean duration of Parkinson ’ s disease of 7 years , with a range from 0 . 3 years to 22 years .
At selected times during the 12 - week study , patients were asked to record the amount of “ OFF , ” “ ON , ” “ ON with dyskinesia , ” or “ sleep ” time per day for two separate days during the week prior to each scheduled visit .
The primary efficacy outcome was the reduction in average percentage daily “ OFF ” time during waking hours from baseline to the end of the trial ( averaging results at Weeks 10 and 12 ) .
Both treatment groups had an average of 7 hours per day of “ OFF ” time at baseline .
Table 2 shows the primary efficacy results .
Patients treated with ZELAPAR had a 13 % reduction from baseline in daily “ OFF ” time , compared with a 5 % reduction for patients treated with placebo .
ZELAPAR - treated patients had an average reduction from baseline of “ OFF ” time of 2 . 2 hours per day , compared with a reduction of 0 . 6 hours in placebo - treated patients .
Table 2 : Mean Percentage Change from Baseline in Daily " Off " Hours at End of Treatment ( Average of Weeks 10 and 12 ) for Intent - to - Treat Population Treatment Change from Baseline Placebo - 5 % ZELAPAR - 13 % Figure 1 shows the mean daily percent “ OFF ” time during treatment over the whole study period for patients treated with ZELAPAR vs . patients treated with placebo .
Figure 1 : Mean Daily Percent " OFF " Time During Treatment Over the Whole Study Period for Patients Treated with ZELAPAR vs . Patients Treated with Placebo [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dosage reduction of levodopa was allowed during this study if dopaminergic side effects , including dyskinesia and hallucinations , emerged .
In those patients who had levodopa dosage reduced , the dose was reduced on average by 24 % in ZELAPAR - treated patients and by 21 % in placebo - treated patients .
No difference in effectiveness based on age ( patients > 66 years old vs . < 66 years ) was detected .
The treatment effect size in males was twice that in females , but , given the size of this single trial , this finding is of doubtful significance .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING ZELAPAR Orally Disintegrating Tablets are available containing 1 . 25 mg selegiline hydrochloride in a Zydis ® formulation .
Each pale yellow tablet is imprinted with a stylized “ V ” .
Ten tablets in a blister card are provided in a sachet pouch .
The sachet pouch is stored inside a clear child - resistant outer pouch and is packaged in a carton .
The blister card and sachet pouch are not child - resistant .
The clear outer pouch is child - resistant .
ZELAPAR ( selegiline hydrochloride ) is available as : • NDC 0187 - 0453 - 021 . 25 mg per tabletcarton of 6 sachet pouches ( 60 tablets ) Store at controlled room temperature , 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Use within 3 months of opening pouch and immediately upon opening individual blister .
Store blister tablets in sachet pouch at all times .
Keep sachet pouch sealed or closed inside clear child - resistant pouch provided .
Potency cannot be guaranteed after 3 months of opening the sachet pouch .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Hypertension and Non - selective Inhibition of MAO Above the Recommended Dose Advise patients ( or their caregivers ) not to exceed the daily recommended dose of 2 . 5 mg .
Explain the risk of using higher daily doses of ZELAPAR and provide a brief description of the hypertensive tyramine reaction provided .
Rare hypertensive reactions with oral selegiline at recommended doses associated with dietary influences have been reported .
Inform patients ( or their caregivers ) about the potential for MAOI - induced hypertensive reactions and describe their signs and symptoms .
Instruct patients to report , immediately , severe headache or other atypical or unusual symptoms not previously experienced or very high blood pressure .
The possibility exists that very tyramine - rich foods ( e . g . , aged cheese such as Stilton ) could possibly cause an increase in blood pressure .
Patients should be advised to avoid certain foods ( e . g . , aged cheese ) containing a very large amount of tyramine while taking recommended doses of ZELAPAR because of the potential for large increases in blood pressure .
If patients eat foods very rich in tyramine and do not feel well soon after eating , they should contact their healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Serotonin Syndrome Inform patients if they are taking , or planning to take , any prescription or over - the - counter drugs , especially antidepressants and over - the - counter cold medications , because there is a potential for interaction with ZELAPAR .
Because patients should not use meperidine or certain other analgesics with ZELAPAR , they should contact their healthcare provider before taking analgesics [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Falling Asleep During Activities of Daily Living and Somnolence Advise patients about the potential for sedating effects associated with ZELAPAR , including somnolence and particularly to the possibility of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living .
Because somnolence can be a frequent adverse reaction with potentially serious consequences , patients should neither drive a car nor engage in other potentially dangerous activities until they have gained sufficient experience with ZELAPAR to gauge whether or not it affects their mental and / or motor performance adversely .
Advise patients that if they experience increased somnolence or new episodes of falling asleep during activities of daily living ( e . g . , watching television , passenger in a car , etc . ) at any time during treatment , they should not drive or participate in potentially dangerous activities until they have contacted their physician .
Advise patients not to drive , operate machinery , or work at heights during treatment if they have previously experienced somnolence and / or have fallen asleep without warning prior to use of ZELAPAR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Hypotension / Orthostatic Hypotension Advise patients that they may develop symptomatic ( or asymptomatic ) hypotension while taking ZELAPAR , especially if they are elderly .
Hypotension may occur more frequently during initial therapy .
Accordingly , caution patients against rising rapidly after sitting or lying down , especially if they have been doing so for prolonged periods and especially at the initiation of treatment with ZELAPAR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Dyskinesia Inform patients that ZELAPAR may cause and / or exacerbate pre - existing dyskinesias [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Hallucinations / Psychotic - Like Behavior Inform patients that hallucinations and other psychotic - like behavior can occur while taking ZELAPAR and that the elderly are at a higher risk than younger patients with Parkinson ' s disease .
Tell patients to report hallucinations or psychotic - like behavior to their healthcare provider promptly should they develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Impulse Control / Compulsive Behaviors Advise patients that they may experience impulse control and / or compulsive behaviors while taking one or more of the medications generally used for the treatment of Parkinson ’ s disease , including ZELAPAR .
Although it is not proven that the medications caused these events , these urges were reported to have stopped in some cases when the dose was reduced or the medication was stopped .
Prescribers should ask patients about the development of new or increased gambling urges , sexual urges or other urges while being treated with ZELAPAR .
Patients should inform their physician if they experience new or increased gambling urges , increased sexual urges or other intense urges while taking ZELAPAR .
Physicians should consider dose reduction or stopping the medication if a patient develops such urges while taking ZELAPAR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Withdrawal Emergent Hyperpyrexia and Confusion Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if they wish to discontinue ZELAPAR or decrease the dose of ZELAPAR [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] .
Irritation of the Buccal Mucosa Inform patients that ZELAPAR may cause irritation of the buccal mucosa including swallowing pain , mouth pain , discrete areas of focal reddening , edema , and / or ulceration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] .
Risk for Phenylketonuric Patients Advise patients that ZELAPAR contains aspartame which could cause problems in patients with phenylketonuria [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 10 ) ] .
Instructions for Use Instruct patients not to remove the blister from the sachet pouch until just prior to dosing .
The blister pack should then be peeled open with dry hands and the orally disintegrating tablet placed on the tongue , where the tablet will disintegrate .
Patients should also avoid drinking liquids or eating food 5 minutes before and after taking ZELAPAR .
Use ZELAPAR within 3 months of opening sachet pouch and immediately upon opening individual blister .
Store blister tablets in sachet pouch at all times .
Keep sachet pouch inside clear child - resistant pouch provided .
Potency cannot be guaranteed after 3 months of opening the pouch .
How should I store ZELAPAR ?
• • Store ZELAPAR at controlled room temperature 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) .
• • Store blister tablets in sachet pouch at all times .
• • Keep sachet pouch sealed or closed inside of clear child - resistant pouch provided .
• • Potency cannot be guaranteed after 3 months of opening the sachet pouch .
• • Keep ZELAPAR and all medicines out of the reach of children .
BLISTER PACKS AND SACHET POUCHES ARE NOT CHILD - RESISTANT .
THE CLEAR OUTER POUCH IS CHILD - RESISTANT .
Distributed by : Bausch Health US , LLC Bridgewater , NJ 08807 USA Manufactured by : Catalent Pharma Solutions Limited Swindon , Wiltshire , SN5 8 RU , UK ZELAPAR is a trademark of Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates .
Zydis is a registered trademark of Catalent Pharma Solutions or its affiliates .
All other product / brand names are trademarks of the respective owners .
© 2021 Bausch Health Companies Inc . or its affiliates 9603102 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0187 - 0453 - 02 Rx only Zelapar ® ( selegiline HCL ) Orally Disintegrating Tablets 60 Tablets 1 . 25 mg Contents : Clear child - resistant pouch containing 6 sachetpouches .
Each sachet pouch contains 10 tablets BAUSCH HEALTH [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
