Active ingredient Minoxidil 5 % w / v Purpose Hair regrowth treatment for men Use to regrow hair on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , see pictures on side of carton ) Warnings For external use only . For use by men only .
Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • • you are a woman • • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the side of this carton or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• • you have no family history of hair loss • • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• • your scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease When using this product • • do not apply on other parts of the body • • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• • some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • • your hands or feet swell • • scalp irritation or redness occurs • • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Directions • • apply one mL with dropper 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area • • using more or more often will not improve results • • continued use is necessary to increase and keep your hair regrowth , or hair loss will begin again Other information • • see hair loss pictures on side of this carton • • before use , read all information on carton and enclosed leaflet • • keep the carton .
It contains important information .
• • hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks in large clinical trials with continuous treatment with minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men • • in clinical studies with mostly white men aged 18 - 49 years with moderate degrees of hair loss , minoxidil topical solution 5 % for men provided more hair regrowth than minoxidil topical solution 2 % • • store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Inactive ingredients alcohol , propylene glycol , purified water Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 Consumer Information IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT Minoxidil Topical Solution USP 5 % Hair Regrowth Treatment UNSCENTED Extra Strength For Men • • Clinically Proven to Help Regrow Hair • • Reactivates Hair Follicles To Stimulate Regrowth • • Provides more hair regrowth than minoxidil topical solution 2 % Not For Use By Women SAVE THIS LEAFLET FOR FUTURE REFERENCE It takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
Please read this leaflet carefully .
It will help you understand how to use minoxidil topical solution 5 % and what to expect from its use .
If you have any questions after reading this leaflet , or anytime while using minoxidil topical solution 5 % , you should ask your healthcare professional or call us at 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
What is minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is a colorless liquid medication containing 5 % minoxidil for use only on the scalp to help regrow hair in men .
Who may use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is for use only by men .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % may be appropriate for you if you are a male at least 18 years old and experiencing gradually thinning hair or gradual hair loss on the top of the scalp ( vertex only , as shown below ) .
It is not intended for frontal baldness or a receding hairline .
The common inherited thinning or hair loss process begins slowly and may become noticeable only after years of gradual loss .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is for men with hair loss or thinning hair that begins on the vertex of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is more likely to regrow hair in men with hair loss in the range shown below .
If men have more hair loss than shown , minoxidil topical solution 5 % may not work .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Many of those experiencing hair loss have other family members with gradual thinning hair or hair loss .
If you have no family history of gradual thinning hair or of gradual hair loss , or your hair loss is patchy , see your doctor .
Who should NOT use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
• • Women should not use minoxidil topical solution 5 % because studies have shown it works no better in women than minoxidil topical solution 2 % .
Some women may also grow facial hair .
In addition , minoxidil topical solution 5 % may be harmful if used during pregnancy or breast - feeding .
• • Minoxidil topical solution 5 % should not be used on babies or for children under 18 years old .
• • Minoxidil topical solution 5 % will not prevent or improve hair loss which may occur with the use of some prescription and non - prescription medications , certain severe nutritional problems ( very low body iron ; too much vitamin A intake ) , low thyroid states ( hypothyroidism ) , chemotherapy , or diseases which cause scarring of the scalp .
Also , minoxidil topical solution 5 % will not improve hair loss due to : • • damage from the use of hair care products which cause scarring or deep burns of the scalp .
• • hair grooming methods such as cornrowing or ponytails which require pulling the hair tightly back from the scalp .
Do not use if you are not sure of the reason for your hair loss .
Will minoxidil topical solution 5 % work for me ?
The amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
Not everyone will respond to minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
The response to minoxidil topical solution 5 % cannot be predicted .
It is unlikely anyone will be able to grow back all their hair .
However , to see your best results with minoxidil topical solution 5 % , make sure you get the medicine directly to the scalp and apply it twice a day , every day .
You may get better results if you have been losing your hair for a short period of time or have little hair loss .
However , for some men minoxidil topical solution 5 % may not work .
How soon can I expect results from using minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Since normal hair usually grows only 1 / 2 to 1 inch per month , hair regrowth with minoxidil topical solution 5 % also takes time .
Results may be seen as early as 2 months with twice daily use .
For some men , it may take at least 4 months for results to be seen .
If you do not see any results after 4 months , stop using minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
When you first begin to use minoxidil topical solution 5 % , your hair loss may increase temporarily for up to 2 weeks .
This is likely a sign that you are getting rid of old hairs in order to regrow more new hairs .
This temporary increase in hair loss is expected and is a part of the process for how minoxidil topical solution 5 % regrows hair .
Remember , this increased hair loss is temporary .
However , if it continues after two weeks , see your doctor .
If minoxidil topical solution 5 % is working , what will the hair look like ?
At first , hair growth is usually soft , downy , colorless hairs ( like peach fuzz ) .
After further use , the new hairs should be the same color and thickness as the other hairs on your scalp .
How long do I need to use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
If you experience hair regrowth , continued use of minoxidil topical solution 5 % is necessary or the hair loss will begin again .
In studies with minoxidil topical solution 5 % , hair regrowth has not been shown to last longer than 48 weeks of continuous treatment in large clinical trials .
What happens if I completely stop using minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Will I keep the new hair ?
Continuous use of minoxidil topical solution 5 % is needed to maintain hair regrowth .
If you stop using minoxidil topical solution 5 % , you will lose your newly regrown hair in 3 to 4 months .
How do I use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
For best results , apply 1 mL with applicator 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
Using more or using more often will not improve results .
Each bottle should last one month , if used as directed .
Allow time for minoxidil topical solution 5 % to dry completely before wearing a hat , or lying on a pillow , etc .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % may cause staining of clothing or linens if damp on the scalp .
When applying minoxidil topical solution 5 % at night , be sure to allow 2 to 4 hours to dry completely .
Never take this product by mouth or apply to other parts of the body .
When do I use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Apply minoxidil topical solution 5 % once in the morning and once at night .
The nighttime application should occur 2 to 4 hours before going to bed to allow for drying .
Each bottle should last one month , if used as directed .
What if I miss a dose or forget to use minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
If you miss one or two daily doses of minoxidil topical solution 5 % , just continue with your next dose .
You should not make up for missed doses .
Can I use minoxidil topical solution 5 % more than twice a day ?
Will it work faster , better ?
No .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % will not work faster or better if used more than two times a day .
Studies have been carefully conducted to determine the correct amount of minoxidil topical solution 5 % needed to get the best results .
More frequent use or larger doses have not been shown to speed up hair growth and may increase your chance of side effects .
What kind of shampoo should I use with minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
If you wash your scalp before applying minoxidil topical solution 5 % , use a mild shampoo .
Can I use hair sprays , mousses , conditioners , gels , etc . ?
Yes .
Hair sprays , spritz , or styling aids may be used on your hair while using minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
For best results , minoxidil topical solution 5 % should be allowed to soak into the scalp before using any styling products .
Try to develop a good routine of applying minoxidil topical solution 5 % first , and then applying styling products and style as usual .
Keep in mind that your best results will be seen with proper application .
Can I have my hair colored or permed or use hair relaxers while using minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
Yes .
We have no evidence that coloring or perming your hair or that the use of relaxers change the effect of minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
However , because the use of a permanent wave and hair color can cause scalp irritation on certain people , we recommend the following precautions : • 1 ) To avoid possible scalp irritation , you should make sure all of the minoxidil topical solution 5 % has been washed off the hair and scalp before using color or perm chemicals .
• 2 ) For best results , do not apply minoxidil topical solution 5 % on the same day that you use a chemical treatment on your hair .
• 3 ) Do not use minoxidil topical solution 5 % for 24 hours after using any chemicals to make sure your scalp has not been irritated by the perm or color treatment .
If no irritation occurs , continue use of minoxidil topical solution 5 % as usual .
• 4 ) Simply restart your normal minoxidil topical solution 5 % routine .
There is no need to use more minoxidil topical solution 5 % to make up for missed applications .
Missing one day of minoxidil topical solution 5 % will not affect your hair regrowth results .
Can I apply minoxidil topical solution 5 % and wash my hair an hour later ?
No .
For minoxidil topical solution 5 % to work best , you should allow it to stay on the scalp for about 4 hours before washing .
Directions for Use • 1 ) Remove the cap .
To remove , push down and turn in direction of the arrows on the cap .
• 2 ) Part your hair in the area of hair thinning / loss .
Follow the instructions below for using the dropper applicator and apply one mL 2 times a day directly onto the scalp in the hair loss area .
Do not use more .
Spread the liquid evenly over the hair loss area .
If you use your fingers , wash hands with soap and water immediately .
Each bottle should last about one month , if used as directed .
Use a mild shampoo if you wash your scalp before applying minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Using the Dropper Applicator • 1 ) Squeeze the rubber bulb and insert the dropper into the bottle .
Release the bulb , allowing the dropper to fill to the 1 mL line .
If the level of the solution is above the 1 mL line , squeeze the extra amount back into the bottle .
• 2 ) Next , place the tip of the dropper near the part of the scalp you want to treat and gently squeeze the bulb to gradually release the solution .
To prevent the solution from running off the scalp , apply a small amount at a time .
• 3 ) After each use attach the dropper to the bottle to make it child - resistant by turning it clockwise until tightly closed .
Warnings For external use only For use by men only Flammable : Keep away from fire or flame Do not use if • • you are a woman • • your amount of hair loss is different than that shown on the other side of this leaflet or your hair loss is on the front of the scalp .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % is not intended for frontal baldness or receding hairline .
• • you have no family history of hair loss • • your hair loss is sudden and / or patchy • • you do not know the reason for your hair loss • • you are under 18 years of age .
Do not use on babies and children .
• • scalp is red , inflamed , infected , irritated , or painful • • you use other medicines on the scalp Ask a doctor before use if you have heart disease .
When using this product • • do not apply on other parts of the body • • avoid contact with the eyes .
In case of accidental contact , rinse eyes with large amounts of cool tap water .
• • some people have experienced changes in hair color and / or texture • • it takes time to regrow hair .
Results may occur at 2 months with twice a day usage .
For some men , you may need to use this product for at least 4 months before you see results .
• • the amount of hair regrowth is different for each person .
This product will not work for all men .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • chest pain , rapid heartbeat , faintness , or dizziness occurs • • sudden , unexplained weight gain occurs • • your hands or feet swell • • scalp irritation or redness occurs • • unwanted facial hair growth occurs • • you do not see hair regrowth in 4 months May be harmful if used when pregnant or breast - feeding .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) What are the most common side effects with minoxidil topical solution 5 % ?
The most common side effects are itching and skin irritation of the treated area of the scalp .
If scalp irritation continues , stop use and see a doctor .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % contains alcohol , which will cause burning or irritation of the eyes .
If minoxidil topical solution 5 % accidentally gets into eyes , rinse with large amounts of cool tap water .
Can minoxidil topical solution 5 % produce unwanted hair growth ?
Unwanted hair growth on the face and other parts of the body has been reported in women .
But it is rare and reversible .
If you develop unwanted hair , stop using minoxidil topical solution 5 % .
Over time , the unwanted hair , if caused by minoxidil topical solution 5 % , will go away .
You can take the following steps to decrease the chances of unwanted hair growth : • 1 ) limit the application of minoxidil topical solution 5 % only to the scalp ; • 2 ) if you use your hands to apply minoxidil topical solution 5 % , wash your hands well immediately afterwards ; and • 3 ) after your nighttime application of minoxidil topical solution 5 % , allow enough drying time before going to bed ( usually 2 to 4 hours ) .
Can I use minoxidil topical solution 5 % for baldness or hair loss in babies or children ?
No .
Minoxidil topical solution 5 % must not be used to treat baldness or hair loss in babies and children .
If you have any other questions , ask your healthcare professional or call us at 1 - 800 - 719 - 9260 .
Store at 20º to 25ºC ( 68º to 77ºF ) .
Keep tightly closed .
Made in Israel Manufactured By Perrigo Yeruham 80500 , Israel Packaged by Perrigo ® Allegan , MI 49010 Rev 05 - 14 : 79800 00 J3 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel Compare to Men ’ s Rogaine ® Extra Strength active ingredient Extra Strength For Men Minoxidil Topical Solution USP , 5 % hair regrowth treatment Reactivates Hair Follicles To Stimulate Regrowth Clinically Proven To Help Regrow Hair Topical Solution Unscented Six Month Supply # 1 Dermatologist Recommended Active Ingredient Not For Use By Women 6 - 60 mL ( 2 FL OZ ) BOTTLES TOTAL 360 mL ( 12 FL OZ ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
