Natural Clear Tone - Lightening The latest and amazing formulation has been implemented for EXENCE WHITE BODY MILK NATURAL Clear Tone to brighten complexion color and gradually reduce freckles and dark spot of the skin caused by age , sun , pregnancy .
This Milk can be classified Top Rank efficacy for brightening action ( Hydroquinone 2 % ) assuring complexion uniformity and luminosity ; it provides antioxidant action ( Rosmarinus Officinalis Extract ) helping to preserve the skin texture by promoting collagen and elastin synthesis .
The Ursolic Acid and Rosmarinic Acid provide antimicrobial , anti irritant , anti inflammatory and refreshing actions .
Use USE : spread a thin layer of milk on the skin area to be brightened and massage delicately .
Continue the application for at least 4 weeks .
Caution CAUTION : For external use only - It contains Hydroquinone 2 % - Keep away from eyes - Apply on small surfaces only - In case of allergic symptoms , immediately suspend the application - Do not use on children under 12 .
Active Ingredients ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Hydroquinone 2 . 00 % Ingredients Ingredients : Water , Stearic Acid , Propylene Glycol , Palmitic Acid , Fragrance , * , Sodium Sulfite , Potassium Cetyl Phosphate , Isopropyl Myristate , Cetyl Alcohol , Glyceryl Stearate , Citric Acid , Lactic Acid , Acrylates / c10 - 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Brassica Campestris ( Rapeseed ) Seed Oil , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Leaf Extract , Hydroxyisohexyl 3 - cyclohexene Carboxaldehyde , Hexyl Cinnamal .
STORE IN COOL , DRY PLACE - DO NOT EXPOSE TO DIRECT SUNLIGHT - ALWAYS CLOSE AFTER USE .
Drug Facts [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Caution CAUTION : For external use only - It contains Hydroquinone 2 % - Keep away from eyes - Apply on small surfaces only - In case of allergic symptoms , immediately suspend the application - Do not use on children under 12 .
Use USE : spread a thin layer of milk on the skin area to be brightened and massage delicately .
Continue the application for at least 4 weeks .
