PATIENT PACKAGE INSERT Patient Information for Novolin ® 70 / 30 NOVOLIN ® 70 / 30 ( NO - voe - lin ) 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) 100 units / mL PURPOSE Important : Know your insulin .
Do not change the type of insulin you use unless told to do so by your healthcare provider .
The amount of insulin you take as well as the best time for you to take your insulin may need to change if you take a different type of insulin .
Make sure that you know the type and strength of insulin that is prescribed for you .
Read the Patient Information leaflet that comes with Novolin 70 / 30 before you start taking it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking with your healthcare provider about your diabetes or your treatment .
Make sure you know how to manage your diabetes .
Ask your healthcare provider if you have any questions about managing your diabetes .
What is Novolin 70 / 30 ?
Novolin 70 / 30 is a man - made insulin ( recombinant DNA origin ) which is a mixture of 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection that is structurally identical to the insulin produced by the human pancreas that is used to control high blood sugar in patients with diabetes mellitus .
DO NOT USE Who should not use Novolin 70 / 30 ?
Do not take Novolin 70 / 30 if : • Your blood sugar is too low ( hypoglycemia ) .
• You are allergic to anything in Novolin 70 / 30 .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in Novolin 70 / 30 .
Check with your healthcare provider if you are not sure .
ASK YOUR DOCTOR Tell your healthcare provider : • about all of your medical conditions .
Medical conditions can affect your insulin needs and your dose of Novolin 70 / 30 .
• if you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
You and your healthcare provider should talk about the best way to manage your diabetes while you are pregnant or breastfeeding .
Novolin 70 / 30 has not been studied in pregnant or nursing women .
• about all of the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins and herbal supplements .
Many medicines can affect your blood sugar levels and your insulin needs .
Your Novolin 70 / 30 dose may need to change if you take other medicines .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines with you to show all your healthcare providers when you get a new medicine .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION How should I take Novolin 70 / 30 ?
Only use Novolin 70 / 30 if it appears cloudy or milky .
There may be air bubbles .
This is normal .
If the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it , and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
This insulin should not be used if the liquid in the vial remains clear after the vial has been gently rotated .
Novolin 70 / 30 comes in : • 10 mL vials ( small bottles ) for use with syringe INDICATIONS AND USAGE Read the instructions for use that come with your Novolin 70 / 30 product .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
Your healthcare provider should show you how to inject Novolin 70 / 30 before you start taking it .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions to make changes to your insulin dose .
• Take Novolin 70 / 30 exactly as prescribed .
• Novolin 70 / 30 is an intermediate - acting insulin .
The effects of Novolin 70 / 30 start working ½ hour after injection .
• The greatest blood sugar lowering effect is between 2 and 12 hours after the injection .
This blood sugar lowering may last up to 24 hours .
• While using Novolin 70 / 30 , any change of insulin should be made cautiously and only under medical supervision .
Doses of oral anti - diabetic medicines may also need to change , if your insulin is changed .
• Do not mix Novolin 70 / 30 with any insulins .
• Inject Novolin 70 / 30 into the skin of your stomach area , upper arms , buttocks or upper legs .
Novolin 70 / 30 may affect your blood sugar levels sooner if you inject it into the skin of your stomach area .
Never inject Novolin 70 / 30 into a vein or into a muscle .
• Change ( rotate ) your injection site within the chosen area ( for example , stomach or upper arm ) with each dose .
Do not inject into the same spot for each injection .
• If you take too much Novolin 70 / 30 , your blood sugar may fall low ( hypoglycemia ) .
You can treat mild low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) by drinking or eating something sugary right away ( fruit juice , sugar candies , or glucose tablets ) .
It is important to treat low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) right away because it could get worse and you could pass out ( become unconscious ) .
If you pass out , you will need help from another person or emergency medical services right away , and will need treatment with a glucagon injection or treatment at a hospital .
See “ What are the possible side effects of Novolin 70 / 30 ? ”
for more information on low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
• If you forget to take your dose of Novolin 70 / 30 , your blood sugar may go too high ( hyperglycemia ) .
If high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) is not treated it can lead to diabetic ketoacidosis , which can lead to serious problems , like loss of consciousness ( passing out ) , coma or even death .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) , and talk to your healthcare provider if high blood sugar is a problem for you .
Severe or continuing high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) requires prompt evaluation and treatment by your healthcare provider .
Know your symptoms of high blood sugar ( hyperglycemia ) and diabetic ketoacidosis which may include : • • increased thirst • frequent urination and dehydration • confusion or drowsiness • loss of appetite • fruity smell on breath • high amounts of sugar and ketones in your urine • nausea , vomiting ( throwing up ) or stomach pain • a hard time breathing • Check your blood sugar levels .
Ask your healthcare provider how often you should check your blood sugar levels for hypoglycemia ( too low blood sugar ) and hyperglycemia ( too high blood sugar ) .
Your insulin dosage may need to change because of : • illness • stress • other medicines you take • change in diet • change in physical activity or exercise • surgery See the end of this patient information for instructions about preparing and giving the injection .
What should I avoid while using Novolin 70 / 30 ?
• Alcohol .
Alcohol , including beer and wine , may affect your blood sugar when you take Novolin 70 / 30 .
• Driving and operating machinery .
You may have difficulty concentrating or reacting if you have low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Be careful when you drive a car or operate machinery .
Ask your healthcare provider if it is alright to drive if you often have : • low blood sugar • decreased or no warning signs of low blood sugar ADVERSE EFFECTS What are the possible side effects of Novolin 70 / 30 ?
Low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) .
Symptoms of hypoglycemia ( low blood sugar ) may include : • sweating • dizziness or lightheadedness • shakiness • hunger • fast heart beat • tingling of lips and tongue • trouble concentrating or confusion • blurred vision • slurred speech • anxiety , irritability or mood changes • headache Severe low blood sugar ( hypoglycemia ) can cause unconsciousness ( passing out ) , seizures , and death .
Know your symptoms of low blood sugar .
Follow your healthcare provider ’ s instructions for treating low blood sugar .
Talk to your healthcare provider if low blood sugar is a problem for you .
• Serious allergic reaction ( whole body reaction ) .
Get medical help right away if you develop a rash over your whole body , have trouble breathing , a fast heartbeat , or sweating .
• Reactions at the injection site ( local allergic reaction ) .
You may get redness , swelling , and itching at the injection site .
If you keep having skin reactions , or they are serious , talk to your healthcare provider .
You may need to stop using Novolin 70 / 30 and use a different insulin .
Do not inject insulin into skin that is red , swollen , or itchy .
• Skin thickens or pits at the injection site ( lipodystrophy ) .
Change ( rotate ) where you inject your insulin to help prevent these skin changes from happening .
Do not inject insulin into this type of skin .
• Swelling of your hands and feet • Vision changes • Low potassium in your blood ( hypokalemia ) These are not all of the possible side effects from Novolin 70 / 30 .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for more information .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
STORAGE AND HANDLING How should I store Novolin 70 / 30 ?
All Unopened Novolin 70 / 30 : • Keep all unopened Novolin 70 / 30 in the refrigerator between 36 ° to 46 ° F ( 2 ° to 8 ° C ) .
• Do not freeze .
Do not use Novolin 70 / 30 if it has been frozen .
• If refrigeration is not possible , the unopened vial may be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) , as long as it is kept at or below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) .
• Keep unopened Novolin 70 / 30 in the carton to protect from light .
Novolin 70 / 30 in use : Vials • Keep at room temperature below 77 ° F ( 25 ° C ) for up to 6 weeks ( 42 days ) .
• Keep vials away from direct heat or light .
• Throw away an opened vial after 6 weeks ( 42 days ) of use , even if there is insulin left in the vial .
• Unopened vials can be used until the expiration date on the Novolin 70 / 30 label , if the medicine has been stored in a refrigerator .
General advice about Novolin 70 / 30 Novolin 70 / 30 is used for the treatment of diabetes only .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for conditions that are not mentioned in the patient leaflet .
Do not use Novolin 70 / 30 for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Novolin 70 / 30 to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Novolin 70 / 30 .
If you would like more information about Novolin 70 / 30 or diabetes , talk with your healthcare provider .
For more information , call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 or visit www . novonordisk - us . com .
Helpful information for people with diabetes is published by the American Diabetes Association , 1701 N Beauregard Street , Alexandria , VA 22311 and on www . diabetes . org .
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS Novolin 70 / 30 ingredients include : • 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) INACTIVE INGREDIENTS Novolin 70 / 30 ingredients include : • Zinc chloride • Sodium hydroxide • Phenol • Disodium phosphate dihydrate • Metacresol • Glycerol • Hydrochloric acid • Protamine sulfate • Water for injections All Novolin 70 / 30 vials are latex - free .
Date of issue : May 14 , 2010 Version : 5 Novolin ® and Novo Nordisk ® are trademarks of Novo Nordisk A / S .
© 2005 - 2010 Novo Nordisk A / S Manufactured by : Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark For information about Novolin 70 / 30 contact : Novo Nordisk Inc .
100 College Road West Princeton , New Jersey 08540 Patient Instructions for Use Novolin ® 70 / 30 10 mL vial ( 100 Units / mL , U - 100 ) Before starting , gather all of the supplies that you will need to use for preparing and giving your insulin injection .
Never re - use syringes and needles .
How should I use the Novolin 70 / 30 vial ?
• Check to make sure that you have the correct type of insulin .
• Look at the vial and the insulin .
The insulin should be a cloudy or milky suspension .
The tamper - resistant cap should be in place before the first use .
If the cap had been removed before your first use of the vial , or if the precipitate ( the white deposit at the bottom of the vial ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the vial , do not use it , and call Novo Nordisk at 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 .
• Wash your hands with soap and water .
If you clean your injection site with an alcohol swab , let the injection site dry before you inject .
Talk with your healthcare provider about how to rotate injection sites and how to give an injection .
• If you are using a new vial , pull off the tamper - resistant cap .
Wipe the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
• Roll the vial gently 10 times in your hands to mix it .
This procedure should be carried out with the vial in a horizontal position .
The rolling procedure must be repeated until the suspension appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Shaking right before the dose is drawn into the syringe may cause bubbles or froth , which could cause you to draw up the wrong dose of insulin .
• Pull back the plunger on the syringe until the black tip reaches the marking for the number of units you will inject .
• Push the needle through the rubber stopper of the vial , and push the plunger all the way in to force air into the vial .
• Turn the vial and syringe upside down and slowly pull the plunger back to a few units beyond the correct dose .
• If there are any air bubbles , tap the syringe gently with your finger to raise the air bubbles to the top .
Then slowly push the plunger to the marking for your correct dose .
This process should move any air bubbles present in the syringe back into the vial .
• Check to make sure you have the right dose of Novolin 70 / 30 in the syringe .
• Pull the syringe with needle out of the vial ’ s rubber stopper .
• Your doctor should tell you if you need to pinch the skin before inserting the needle .
This can vary from patient to patient so it is important to ask your doctor if you did not receive instructions on pinching the skin .
Insert the needle into the skin .
Press the plunger of the syringe to inject the insulin .
When you are finished injecting the insulin , pull the needle out of your skin .
You may see a drop of Novolin 70 / 30 at the needle tip .
This is normal and has no effect on the dose you just received .
If you see blood after you take the needle out of your skin , press the injection site lightly with a piece of gauze or an alcohol wipe .
Do not rub the area .
• After your injection , do not recap the needle .
Place used syringes , needles and used insulin vials in a disposable puncture - resistant sharps container , or some type of hard plastic or metal container with a screw on cap such as a detergent bottle or coffee can .
• Ask your healthcare provider about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
There may be state or local laws about the right way to throw away used syringes and needles .
Do not throw away used needles and syringes in household trash or recycle .
Information for the patient Novolin ® 70 / 30 PenFill ® 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) 3 mL Disposable Cartridge ( 300 units per cartridge ) 100 units / mL ( U - 100 ) Please read this leaflet carefully before using this product .
Please note the special directions under PREPARING THE INJECTION .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 PenFill ® 3 mL is designed for use with Novo Nordisk ® 3 mL PenFill cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices , with or without the addition of a NovoPen ® 3 PenMate ® , and NovoFine ® disposable needles .
PenFill ® cartridge is for single - person use only .
See IMPORTANT NOTES section .
WARNING WARNING ANY CHANGE OF INSULIN SHOULD BE MADE CAUTIOUSLY AND ONLY UNDER MEDICAL SUPERVISION .
CHANGES IN PURITY , STRENGTH , BRAND ( MANUFACTURER ) , TYPE ( REGULAR , NPH , LENTE ® , ETC . ) , SPECIES ( BEEF , PORK , BEEF - PORK , HUMAN ) , AND / OR METHOD OF MANUFACTURE ( RECOMBINANT DNA VERSUS ANIMAL - SOURCE INSULIN ) MAY RESULT IN THE NEED FOR A CHANGE IN DOSAGE .
SPECIAL CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN WHEN THE TRANSFER IS FROM A STANDARD BEEF OR MIXED SPECIES INSULIN TO A PURIFIED PORK OR HUMAN INSULIN .
IF A DOSAGE ADJUSTMENT IS NEEDED , IT WILL USUALLY BECOME APPARENT EITHER IN THE FIRST FEW DAYS OR OVER A PERIOD OF SEVERAL WEEKS .
ANY CHANGE IN TREATMENT SHOULD BE CAREFULLY MONITORED .
PLEASE READ THE SECTIONS “ INSULIN REACTION AND SHOCK ” AND “ DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS AND COMA ” FOR SYMPTOMS OF HYPOGLYCEMIA ( LOW BLOOD GLUCOSE ) AND HYPERGLYCEMIA ( HIGH BLOOD GLUCOSE ) .
INSULIN USE IN DIABETES Your physician has explained that you have diabetes and that your treatment involves injections of insulin or insulin therapy combined with an oral antidiabetic medicine .
Insulin is normally produced by the pancreas , a gland that lies behind the stomach .
Without insulin , glucose ( a simple sugar made from digested food ) is trapped in the bloodstream and cannot enter the cells of the body .
Some patients who don ’ t make enough of their own insulin , or who cannot use the insulin they do make properly , must take insulin by injection in order to control their blood glucose levels .
Each case of diabetes is different and requires direct and continued medical supervision .
Your physician has told you the type , strength and amount of insulin you should use and the time ( s ) at which you should inject it , and has also discussed with you a diet and exercise schedule .
You should contact your physician if you experience any difficulties or if you have questions .
TYPES OF INSULINS Standard and purified animal insulins as well as human insulins are available .
Standard and purified insulins differ in their degree of purification and content of noninsulin material .
Standard and purified insulins also vary in species source ; they may be of beef , pork , or mixed beef and pork origin .
Human insulin is identical in structure to the insulin produced by the human pancreas , and thus differs from animal insulins .
Insulins vary in time of action ; see PRODUCT DESCRIPTION for additional information .
Your physician has prescribed the insulin that is right for you ; be sure you have purchased the correct insulin and check it carefully before you use it .
PRODUCT DESCRIPTION This package contains five ( 5 ) Novolin ® 70 / 30 PenFill ® 3 mL cartridges .
Novolin 70 / 30 is a mixture of 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) .
The concentration of this product is 100 units of insulin per milliliter .
It is a cloudy or milky suspension of human insulin with protamine and zinc .
The insulin substance ( the cloudy material ) settles at the bottom of the cartridge , therefore , the cartridge must be rotated up and down as described under PREPARING THE INJECTION so that the contents are uniformly mixed before a dose is given .
Novolin 70 / 30 has an intermediate duration of action .
The effect of Novolin 70 / 30 begins approximately ½ hour after injection .
The effect is maximal between 2 and approximately 12 hours .
The full duration of action may last up to 24 hours after injection .
The time course of action of any insulin may vary considerably in different individuals , or at different times in the same individual .
Because of this variation , the time periods listed here should be considered as general guidance only .
This human insulin ( recombinant DNA origin ) is structurally identical to the insulin produced by the human pancreas .
This human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing Saccharomyces cerevisiae ( bakers ’ yeast ) as the production organism .
INSULIN DELIVERY SYSTEMS These Novolin 70 / 30 PenFill 3 mL cartridges are designed for use with Novo Nordisk ® 3 mL PenFill cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices , with or without the addition of a NovoPen ® 3 PenMate ® , and NovoFine ® disposable needles .
STORAGE Insulin should be stored in a cold ( 36 ° - 46 ° F [ 2 ° - 8 ° C ] ) place , preferably in a refrigerator , but not in the freezer .
Do not let it freeze .
Keep Novolin 70 / 30 PenFill cartridges in the carton so that they will stay clean and protected from light .
The Novolin 70 / 30 PenFill cartridge that you are currently using should not be refrigerated but should be kept as cool as possible ( below 86 ° F [ 30 ° C ] ) and away from direct heat and light .
Unrefrigerated Novolin 70 / 30 PenFill cartridges must be discarded 10 days after the first use , even if they still contain Novolin 70 / 30 insulin .
Never use PenFill cartridges after the expiration date which is printed on the label and carton .
Never use any Novolin 70 / 30 PenFill cartridge if the precipitate ( the white deposit ) has become lumpy or granular in appearance or has formed a deposit of solid particles on the wall of the cartridge .
This insulin should not be used if the liquid in the cartridge remains clear after it has been mixed .
IMPORTANT Failure to follow the antiseptic measures listed below may lead to infections at the injection site .
– Disposable needles are for single use ; they should be used only once and destroyed .
– Clean your hands and the injection site with soap and water or with alcohol .
– Wipe the rubber stopper on the insulin cartridge with an alcohol swab .
PREPARING THE INJECTION Never place a single - use disposable needle on your insulin delivery device until you are ready to give an injection , and remove it immediately after the injection .
If the needle is not removed , some liquid may be expelled from the cartridge causing a change in the insulin concentration ( strength ) .
The cloudy material in an insulin suspension will settle to the bottom of the cartridge , so the contents must be mixed before injection .
These Novolin PenFill cartridges contain a glass ball to aid mixing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] When using a new cartridge , turn the cartridge up and down between positions A and B – See Figure 1 .
Do this at least 10 times until the liquid appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Assemble your insulin delivery device following the directions in your instruction manual .
For subsequent injections when a cartridge is already in the device , turn the device up and down between positions A and B - See Figure 2 .
Do this at least 10 times until the liquid appears uniformly white and cloudy .
Follow the directions in your insulin delivery device instruction manual .
Note : Never initiate a new injection unless there is sufficient insulin in the cartridge to ensure proper mixing ( the glass ball needs adequate room for movement to mix the suspension ) .
PenFill cartridges may contain a small amount of air bubbles .
To prevent an injection of air and to make certain that a full dose of insulin is injected , an air shot must be done before each injection .
Directions for performing an air shot are provided in your insulin delivery device instruction manual .
GIVING THE INJECTION • The following areas are suitable for subcutaneous insulin injection : thighs , upper arms , buttocks , abdomen .
Do not change areas without consulting your physician .
The actual point of injection should be changed each time ; injection sites should be about an inch apart .
• The injection site should be clean and dry .
Pinch up skin area to be injected and hold it firmly .
• Hold the device like a pencil and push the needle quickly and firmly into the pinched - up area .
• Release the skin and push the push button all the way in to inject insulin beneath the skin .
After the injection , the needle should remain under the skin for at least 6 seconds .
Keep the push button fully depressed until the needle is withdrawn from the skin .
This will ensure that the full dose has been injected .
• Do not inject into a muscle unless your physician has advised it .
You should never inject insulin into a vein .
Follow the directions for use of your insulin delivery device .
• Remove the needle .
If slight bleeding occurs , press lightly with a dry cotton swab for a few seconds - do not rub .
Note : Use the injection technique recommended by your physician .
USAGE IN PREGNANCY It is particularly important to maintain good control of your diabetes during pregnancy and special attention must be paid to your diet , exercise and insulin regimens .
If you are pregnant or nursing a baby , consult your physician or nurse educator .
INSULIN REACTION AND SHOCK Insulin reaction ( hypoglycemia ) occurs when the blood glucose falls very low .
This can happen if you take too much insulin , miss or delay a meal , exercise more than usual , or work too hard without eating , or become ill ( especially with vomiting or fever ) .
Hypoglycemia can also happen if you combine insulin therapy and other medications that lower blood glucose , such as oral antidiabetic agents or other prescription and over - the - counter drugs .
The first symptoms of an insulin reaction usually come on suddenly .
They may include a cold sweat , fatigue , nervousness or shakiness , rapid heartbeat , or nausea .
Personality change or confusion may also occur .
If you drink or eat something right away ( a glass of milk or orange juice , or several sugar candies ) , you can often stop the progression of symptoms .
If symptoms persist , call your physician - an insulin reaction can lead to unconsciousness .
If a reaction results in loss of consciousness , emergency medical care should be obtained immediately .
If you have had repeated reactions or if an insulin reaction has led to a loss of consciousness , contact your physician .
Severe hypoglycemia can result in temporary or permanent impairment of brain function and death .
In certain cases , the nature and intensity of the warning symptoms of hypoglycemia may change .
A few patients have reported that after being transferred to human insulin , the early warning symptoms of hypoglycemia were less pronounced than they had been with animal - source insulin .
DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS AND COMA Diabetic ketoacidosis may develop if your body has too little insulin .
The most common causes are acute illness or infection or failure to take enough insulin by injection .
If you are ill , you should check your urine for ketones .
The symptoms of diabetic ketoacidosis usually come on gradually , over a period of hours or days , and include a drowsy feeling , flushed face , thirst and loss of appetite .
Notify your physician right away if the urine test is positive for ketones ( acetone ) or if you have any of these symptoms .
Fast , heavy breathing and rapid pulse are more severe symptoms and you should have medical attention right away .
Severe , sustained hyperglycemia may result in diabetic coma and death .
ADVERSE REACTIONS A few people with diabetes develop red , swollen and itchy skin where the insulin has been injected .
This is called a “ local reaction ” and it may occur if the injection is not properly made , if the skin is sensitive to the cleansing solution , or if you are allergic to the insulin being used .
If you have a local reaction , tell your physician .
Generalized insulin allergy occurs rarely , but when it does it may cause a serious reaction , including skin rash over the body , shortness of breath , fast pulse , sweating , and a drop in blood pressure .
If any of these symptoms develop , you should seek emergency medical care .
If severe allergic reactions to insulin have occurred ( i . e . , generalized rash , swelling or breathing difficulties ) you should be skin - tested with each new insulin preparation before it is used .
IMPORTANT NOTES • A change in the type , strength , species or purity of insulin could require a dosage adjustment .
Any change in insulin should be made under medical supervision .
• To avoid possible transmission of disease , PenFill cartridge should not be shared .
• Before use , check that the PenFill cartridge is intact ( e . g . no cracks ) .
Do not use if any damage is visible , or if the part of the rubber piston that you see is wider than the white bar code band .
• You may have learned how to test your urine or your blood for glucose .
It is important to do these tests regularly and to record the results for review with your physician or nurse educator .
• If you have an acute illness , especially with vomiting or fever , continue taking your insulin .
If possible , stay on your regular diet .
If you have trouble eating , drink fruit juices , regular soft drinks , or clear soups ; if you can , eat small amounts of bland foods .
Test your urine for glucose and ketones and , if possible , test your blood glucose .
Note the results and contact your physician for possible insulin dose adjustment .
If you have severe and prolonged vomiting , seek emergency medical care .
• You should always carry identification which states that you have diabetes .
• Always ask your physician or pharmacist before taking any drug .
• Do not try to refill a PenFill cartridge .
Always consult your physician if you have any questions about your condition or the use of insulin .
Helpful information for people with diabetes is published by the American Diabetes Association , 1660 Duke Street , Alexandria , VA 22314 Date of issue : November 18 , 2005 Protected by U . S . Patent No . 6 , 126 , 646 and No . 5 , 693 , 027 and Des .
347 , 894 and other U . S . Patents Pending , recommended for use with Novo Nordisk 3 mL PenFill cartridge compatible insulin delivery devices , with or without a NovoPen 3 PenMate , and Novo Nordisk pen needles .
© 2004 / 2005 Novo Nordisk Inc .
Novo Nordisk ® , Novolin ® , PenFill ® , NovoPen ® , PenMate ® , NovoFine ® and Lente ® are registered trademarks owned by Novo Nordisk A / S .
Novo Nordisk Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Call 1 - 800 - 727 - 6500 for additional information www . novonordisk - us . com Manufactured by Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark Patient Instructions for Use Novolin 70 / 30 ® InnoLet ® Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® directions for use [ MULTIMEDIA ] Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is a disposable dial - a - dose insulin delivery system able to deliver 1 - 50 units in increments of 1 unit .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is designed and recommended for use with NovoFine ® single - use needles .
Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is not recommended for the blind or severely visually impaired patients without the assistance of a sighted individual trained in the proper use of this product .
Please read these instructions completely before using this device .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Preparing the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® : Pull off the device cap .
1 A .
Turn the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® up and down between positions A and B so the glass ball is moved from one end of the insulin reservoir to the other .
Do this at least 10 times , until the liquid appears uniformly white and cloudy .
To ensure even mixing of the remaining insulin there must be at least 12 units of insulin left in the reservoir .
If there are less than 12 units left , do not use the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® .
Wipe rubber stopper with an alcohol swab .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 B .
Remove the protective tab from the disposable needle and screw the needle onto the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® .
Never place a disposable needle on your Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® until you are ready to give an injection .
Remove the needle immediately after use .
If the needle is not removed , some liquid may be expelled from the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® causing a change in insulin concentration ( strength ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 C .
Giving the air shot prior to each injection : Small amounts of air may collect in the needle and insulin reservoir during normal use .
To avoid the injection of air and ensure proper dosing , dial 2 units by turning the dose selector clockwise .
Hold the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® with the needle up and tap the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® gently with your finger so any air bubbles collect in the top of the reservoir .
Remove both the plastic outer and inner needle caps .
With the needle pointing up , press the push button as far as it will go and the dose selector returns to zero .
See if a drop of insulin appears at the needle tip ( see fig . 1 C ) .
If not , repeat the procedure until insulin appears .
Before the first use of Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® you may need to perform up to 6 air shots to get a drop of insulin at the needle tip .
If you need to make more than 6 air shots , do not use , and return the product to Novo Nordisk .
A small air bubble may remain but it will not be injected because the operating mechanism prevents the reservoir from being completely emptied .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Setting the dose Always check that the push button is fully depressed and the dose selector is set to zero .
Hold the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® in front of you and dial the dose selector clockwise to set the required dose .
Do not put your hand over the push button when dialing the dose .
If the button is not allowed to rise freely , insulin will be pushed out of the needle .
When setting your dose , you will hear a click for every single unit dialed .
Do not rely on this clicking sound as a means of determining your dose .
If you have set a wrong dose , simply dial the dose selector forward or backwards until the right number of units has been set .
50 units is the maximum dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Giving the injection Use the injection technique recommended by your doctor .
Check that you have set the proper dose and depress the push button as far as it will go .
Make sure not to block the dose selector while injecting as the dose selector must be allowed to return to zero when you press the push button .
When depressing the push button you may hear a clicking sound .
Do not rely on this clicking sound as a means of confirming delivery of your dose .
After making the injection , unscrew the needle and discard appropriately .
Replace the device cap .
Health care professionals , relatives , and other care - givers should follow general precautionary measures for removal and disposal of needles to eliminate the risk of unintended needle penetration .
For additional information see Giving the injection on the reverse side of this insert .
Subsequent injections Always check that the push button is fully depressed before using the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® again .
If not , turn the dose selector until the push button is completely down .
Then proceed as stated under steps 1 - 3 .
The numbers on the insulin reservoir can be used to estimate the amount of insulin left in the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® .
These numbers are not used for measuring the insulin dose .
You cannot set a dose greater than the number of units remaining in the reservoir .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 4 .
Function check If you think that your Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is not working properly , follow this procedure : a . Screw on a new NovoFine needle .
b . Perform air shot as described in section 1 C .
c . Put the outer needle cap onto the needle .
d . Dispense 20 units into the needle cap .
The insulin will fill the lower part of the cap ( as shown in fig . 4 ) .
If the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® has released too much or too little insulin , repeat the test .
If it happens again , contact Novo Nordisk and do not use your Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® .
5 .
Important notes a .
If you need to perform more than 6 air shots before the first use of Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® to get a drop of insulin at the needle tip , do not use .
b . Remember to perform an air shot before each injection ( see fig . 1 C ) .
c . Care should be taken not to drop the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® or subject it to impact .
d . Remember to keep the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® that you are currently using with you ; don ’ t leave it in a car or other location where extremes of temperature can occur .
e . Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is designed and recommended for use with NovoFine disposable needles .
f . Never place a disposable needle on the Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® until you are ready to use it .
Remove the needle immediately after use .
g . Discard the used Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® carefully , without the needle attached .
h . Always carry a spare Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® with you in case your Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® is damaged or lost .
i . Novo Nordisk cannot be held responsible for adverse reactions occurring as a consequence of using the insulin delivery system with products that are not recommended by Novo Nordisk .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN j . Keep Novolin ® 70 / 30 InnoLet ® out of the reach of children .
© 2002 / 2008 Novo Nordisk A / S Call 800 - 727 - 6500 for additional information .
Novo Nordisk Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 www . novonordisk - us . com Manufactured by Novo Nordisk A / S DK - 2880 Bagsvaerd , Denmark Novo Nordisk ® , Novolin ® , Lente ® , NovoFine ® and InnoLet ® are trademarks owned by Novo Nordisk A / S U . S . Patents Nos . 5 , 947 , 934 , 6 , 074 , 372 , 6 , 110 , 149 , 6 , 302 , 869 , 6 , 524 , 280 , 6 , 379 , 339 , 6 , 582 , 404 , and other U . S . patents pending .
Principal Display Panel - 10 mL Vial Novolin ® 70 / 30 10 mL Vial 70 % NPH , Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30 % Regular , Human Insulin Injection ( recombinant DNA origin ) NDC 54868 - 3474 - 0 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 10 mL Use with U - 100 insulin syringes only Shake carefully before use Keep in cold place Avoid freezing Additional barcode labeling by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , Oklahoma 74146 [ MULTIMEDIA ]
