Drug Facts Active Ingredient Salicylic acid 2 % Purpose acne treatment Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Uses Acne treatment and helps prevent new acne blemishes .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product skin irritation and dryness is more likely to occur if you use another topical acne medication at the same time .
If irritation occurs , only use one topical acne medication at a time .
Avoid contact with eyes .
If contact occurs , flush thoroughly with water .
Directions • Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product .
• Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer and rinse thoroughly one to three times daily .
• Because excessive drying of the skin may occur , start with one application daily , then gradually increase to two or three times daily if needed or as directed by a doctor .
• If bothersome dryness or peeling occurs , reduce application to once a day or every other day .
Inactive ingredients Water , poloxamer 407 , laureth - 4 , PEG - 400 , propylene glycol , glycerine .
BRODA Acne Spa Treatment Mask Label Tough on acne Gentle on your skin Anti - acne IntelliGel ™ BRODA Acne Spa Treatment Mask IntelliGel ™ Technology Clears most acne pimples Eliminates blackheads and whiteheads Prevents acne blemishes SUITABLE FOR ALL SKIN TYPES Beta Hydroxy Acid Hydrogel Spa Treatment NET WT .
3 . 53 oz .
( 100 g ) Product Benefits : This revolutionary Acne Spa Treatment Mask formula is very effective in reducing blemishes , soothing inflammation , and accelerating skin ' s clarifying process without irritation even for sensitive skin .
Rich in powerful supramolecular beta hydroxy acid complexes , the specially formulated Acne Spa Treatment Mask formula clears up clogged pores , promotes the sloughing away of dead skin cells .
After application , skin feels refreshed , moist and relaxed with pores constricting , and your skin will be smoother , suppler and bright with a healthy glow and radiance .
Distributed by : Broda International , LLC 10 Barley Court Plainsboro , NJ 08536 Manufactured and packaged in the USA www . broda . com Patent pending BRODA ™ Anti - acne IntelliGel ™ Developed with a proprietary break - through IntellGel ™ technology that delivers maximum strength acne medication to effectively penetrate pores to clear most acne blemishes and help prevent new acne pimples .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
