DESCRIPTION Contains hydrocortisone 1 % and iodoquinol 1 % in a greaseless cream of cetyl alcohol , glyceryl monostearate SE , isopropyl myristate , lanolin alcohol , mineral oil , polyoxyl 40 stearate , polysorbate 20 , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , purified water , sorbic acid , and sorbitan monostearate .
Paraben Free .
Chemically , hydrocortisone is [ Pregn - 4 - ene - 3 , 20 - dione , 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - , ( 11β ) - ] with the molecular formula C 21 H 30 O 5 ) and is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] and iodoquinol , 5 , 7 - diiodo - 8 - quinolinol ( C 9 H 5 I 2 NO ) is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocortisone is an anti - inflammatory and antipruritic agent , while iodoquinol is an antifungal and antibacterial agent .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocortisone has an anti - inflammatory , antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties .
While the mechanism of anti - inflammatory activity is unclear , there is evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and the therapeutic efficacy in humans lodoquinol has both antifungal and antibacterial properties .
Pharmacokinetics The extent of the percutaneous absorption of topical steroids is determined by many factors including the vehicle , the integrity of the epidermal barrier and the use of occlusive dressings .
Hydrocortisone can be absorbed from normal intact skin .
Inflammation and / or other inflammatory disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption .
Occlusive dressings substantially increase the percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids .
Once absorbed through the skin , hydrocortisone is metabolized in the liver and most body tissue to hydrogeneted and degraded forms such as tetrahydrocortisone and tetrahydrocortisol .
These are excreted in the urine , mainly conjugated as glucuronides , together with a very small proportion of unchanged hydrocortisone .
There are no data available regarding the percutaneous absorption of iodoquinol ; however , following oral administration , 3 - 5 % of the dose was recovered in the urine as glucuronide .
INDICATIONS Based on a review of a related drug by the National Research Council and subsequent FDA classification for that drug , the indications are as follows : " Possibly " Effective : Contact or atopic dermatitis ; impetiginized eczema ; nummular eczema ; endogenous chronic infectious dermatitis ; stasis dermatitis ; pyoderma ; nuchal eczema and chronic eczematoid otitis externa ; acne urticata ; localized or disseminated neurodermatitis ; lichen simplex chronicus ; anogenital pruritus ( vulvae , scroti , ani ) ; folliculitis ; bacterial dermatoses ; mycotic dermatoses such as tinea ( capitis , cruris , corporis , pedis ) ; moniliasis ; intertrigo .
Final classification of the less - than - effective indications requires further investigation .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in persons with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of the product .
WARNING FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
PRECAUTIONS NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Avoid contact with eyes , lips and mucous membranes .
Information for Patients If irritation develops , the use of this product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Staining of the skin , hair and fabrics may occur .
Not intended for the use on infants or under diapers of occlusive dressings .
If extensive areas are treated or if the occlusive dressing technique is used , the possibility exists of increased systemic absorption of the corticosteroid , and suitable precautions should be taken .
Children may absorb proportionally larger amounts of topical corticosteroids and thus be more susceptible to systemic toxicity .
Iodoquinol may be absorbed through the skin and interfere with thyroid function tests .
If such tests are contemplated , wait at least one month after discontinuance of therapy to perform these tests .
The ferric chloride test for phenylketonuria ( PKU ) can yield a false positive result if iodoquinol is present in the diaper or urine .
Prolonged use may result on overgrowth of non - susceptible organisms requiring appropriate therapy .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term animal studies for carcinogenic potential have not been performed on this product to date .
In vitro studies to determine mutagenicity with hydrocortisone have revealed negative results .
Mutagenicity studies have not been performed with iodoquinol .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with this product .
It is also not known whether this product can affect reproduction capacity or cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
This product should be used by a pregnant woman only if clearly needed or when potential benefits outweigh potential hazards to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when this product is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients under the age of 12 have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following local adverse reactions are reported infrequently with topical corticosteroids .
These reactions are listed in an approximate decreasing order of occurrence : burning , itching , irritation , dryness , folliculitis , hypertrichosis , acneiform eruptions , hypopigmentation , perioral dermatitis , allergic contact dermatitis , maceration of the skin , secondary infections , skin atrophy , striae and miliaria .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply to affected area 3 to 4 times daily in accordance with physician ' s directions .
STORAGE Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( between 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
Brief exposure to temperatures up to 40 ° C ( 104 ° F ) may be tolerated provided the mean kinetic temperature does not exceed 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; however , such exposure should be minimized .
Keep container tightly closed .
NOTICE Protect from freezing and excessive heat .
HOW SUPPLIED 1 oz .
tubes , NDC 72336 - 811 - 30 To report a serious adverse event or obtain product information , call 1 - 888 - 463 - 6332 .
Manufactured for : LiFsa Drugs LLC New Brunswick NJ 08901 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 72336 - 811 - 30 Corti - Sav Hydrocortisone 1 % − Iodoquinol 1 % Cream NET WT 1 oz ( 28 . 4 g ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
