Rx Only DESCRIPTION Naftin ® Gel , 1 % contains the synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent naftifine hydrochloride .
Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is for topical use only .
Chemical Name ( E ) - N - Cinnamyl - N - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine hydrochloride .
Naftifine hydrochloride has an empirical formula of C21H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 323 . 86 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Contains Active Ingredient Naftifine hydrochloride 1 % Inactive Ingredients polysorbate 80 , carbomer 934 P , diisopropanolamine , edetate disodium , alcohol ( 52 % v / v ) and purified water .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Naftifine hydrochloride is a synthetic allylamine derivative .
The following in vitro data are available , but their clinical significance is unknown .
Naftifine hydrochloride has been shown to exhibit fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of organisms , including Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans , Epidermophyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , Microsporum audouini , and Microsporum gypseum ; and fungistatic activity against Candida species , including Candida albicans .
Naftin ® Gel , 1 % has only been shown to be clinically effective against the disease entities listed in the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section .
Although the exact mechanism of action against fungi is not known , naftifine hydrochloride appears to interfere with sterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme squalene 2 , 3 - epoxidase .
This inhibition of enzyme activity results in decreased amounts of sterols , especially ergosterol , and a corresponding accumulation of squalene in the cells .
Pharmacokinetics In vitro and in vivo bioavailability studies have demonstrated that naftifine penetrates the stratum corneum in sufficient concentration to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes .
Following single topical applications of 3 H - labeled naftifine gel 1 % to the skin of healthy subjects , up to 4 . 2 % of the applied dose was absorbed .
Naftifine and / or its metabolites are excreted via the urine and feces with a half - life of approximately two to three days .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is indicated for the topical treatment of tinea pedis , tinea cruris and tinea corporis caused by the organisms Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Trichophyton tonsurans [ 1 ] and Epidermophyton floccosum .
null [ 1 ] Efficacy for this organism in this organ system was studied in fewer than 10 infections .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGS Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is for topical use only and not for ophthalmic use .
PRECAUTIONS General Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is for external use only .
If irritation or sensitivity develops with the use of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Diagnosis of the disease should be confirmed either by direct microscopic examination of a mounting of infected tissue in a solution of potassium hydroxide or by culture on an appropriate medium .
Information for patients The patient should be told to : • Avoid the use of occlusive dressings or wrappings unless otherwise directed by the physician .
• Keep Naftin ® Gel , 1 % away from the eyes , nose , mouth and other mucous membranes .
Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , impairment of fertility Long - term studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % have not been performed .
In vitro and animal studies have not demonstrated any mutagenic effect or effect on fertility .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and rabbits ( via oral administration ) at doses 150 times or more than the topical human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to naftifine .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Naftin ® Gel , 1 % is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS During clinical trials with Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , the incidence of adverse reactions was as follows : burning / stinging ( 5 . 0 % ) , itching ( 1 . 0 % ) , erythema ( 0 . 5 % ) , rash ( 0 . 5 % ) , skin tenderness ( 0 . 5 % ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A sufficient quantity of Naftin ® Gel , 1 % should be gently massaged into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice a day in the morning and evening .
The hands should be washed after application .
If no clinical improvement is seen after four weeks of treatment with Naftin ® Gel , 1 % , the patient should be re - evaluated .
HOW SUPPLIED Naftin ® ( naftifine hydrochloride ) 1 % Gel is supplied in collapsible tubes in the following sizes : 40 gram NDC 54868 - 2185 - 2 Note : Store at room temperature .
Manufactured for : Merz Pharmaceuticals , Greensboro , NC 27410 5011343 © 2009 Merz Pharmaceuticals Rev 2 / 09 Printed in U . S . A . Relabeling of " Additional Barcode " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NAFTIN ® NAFTIFINE HCl 1 % GEL Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
