Active ingredients Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 5 . 0 % Avobenzone 3 . 0 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on damaged or broken skin When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply at least every 2 hours • use a water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • Sun Protection measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit the time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . - 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun • may stain some fabrics Inactive ingredients water , diisopropyl adipate , cyclomethicone , glycerin , undecylcrylene dimethicone , glyceryl stearate , PET - 100 stearate , polymethyl methacrylate , phenoxyethanol , benzyl alcohol , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , tocopyeryl acetate , carbomer , disodium EDTA , trietanoolamine , potassium sorbate claims Retain carton for complete information about this product .
May stain or damage some fabric or surfaces .
adverse reactions DISTRIBUTED BY : Amazon . com Services LLC Seattle , WA 98109 1 - 877 - 485 - 0385 2018 Amazon . com , Inc or is affiliates All rights reserved .
Solimo and all related logos are trademarks of Amazon . com , Inc . , or its affiiates .
All rights reserved .
Solimo and all related logos are trademarks of Amazon . com , Inc or its affiliates .
principal display panel Solimo Daily Facial Moisturizer BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 15 SUNSCREEN Fragrance Free 4 . 8 FL OZ ( 141 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
