1 INDICATIONS & USAGE Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
To obtain optimal efficacy , the tablet should be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours of intercourse .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is not indicated for routine use as a contraceptive .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is a progestin - only emergency contraceptive indicated for prevention of pregnancy following unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is available only by prescription for women younger than age 17 years , and available over the counter for women 17 years and older .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is not intended for routine use as a contraceptive .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Take Levonorgestrel Tablet orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
Levonorgestrel Tablet can be used at any time during the menstrual cycle .
If vomiting occurs within two hours of taking the tablet , consideration should be given to repeating the dose .
One tablet taken orally as soon as possible within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse .
Efficacy is better if the tablet is taken as soon as possible after unprotected intercourse .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS & STRENGTHS The Levonorgestrel Tablet is supplied as a white to off - white , round , flat tablets containing 1 . 5 mg of levonorgestrel and debossed with “ NL 620 ” on one side and plain on the other side .
1 . 5 mg tablet ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Levonorgestrel Tablet is contraindicated for use in the case of known or suspected pregnancy .
Known or suspected pregnancy ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Ectopic pregnancy : Women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet should be evaluated for ectopic pregnancy .
( 5 . 1 ) • Levonorgestrel Tablet is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
( 5 . 2 ) • Effect on menses : Levonorgestrel Tablet may alter the next expected menses .
If menses is delayed beyond 1 week , pregnancy should be considered .
( 5 . 3 ) • STI / HIV : Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against STI / HIV .
( 5 . 4 ) 5 . 1 Ectopic Pregnancy Ectopic pregnancies account for approximately 2 % of all reported pregnancies .
Up to 10 % of pregnancies reported in clinical studies of routine use of progestin - only contraceptives are ectopic .
A history of ectopic pregnancy is not a contraindication to use of this emergency contraceptive method .
Healthcare providers , however , should consider the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy in women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet .
5 . 2 Existing Pregnancy Levonorgestrel tablet is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
5 . 3 Effects on Menses Some women may experience spotting a few days after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet .
Menstrual bleeding patterns are often irregular among women using progestin - only oral contraceptives and women using levonorgestrel for postcoital and emergency contraception .
If there is a delay in the onset of expected menses beyond 1 week , consider the possibility of pregnancy .
5 . 4 STI / HIV Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against HIV infection ( AIDS ) or other sexually transmitted infections ( STIs ) .
5 . 5 Physical Examination and Follow - up A physical examination is not required prior to prescribing Levonorgestrel Tablet .
A follow - up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet .
5 . 6 Fertility Following Discontinuation A rapid return of fertility is likely following treatment with Levonorgestrel Tablet for emergency contraception ; therefore , routine contraception should be continued or initiated as soon as possible following use of Levonorgestrel Tablet to ensure ongoing prevention of pregnancy .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 10 % ) in clinical trials included heavier menstrual bleeding ( 31 % ) , nausea ( 14 % ) , lower abdominal pain ( 13 % ) , fatigue ( 13 % ) , headache ( 10 % ) , and dizziness ( 10 % ) .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact at or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Levonorgestrel Tablet was studied in a randomized , double - blinded multicenter clinical trial .
In this study , all women who had received at least one dose of study medication were included in the safety analysis : 1 , 379 women in the Levonorgestrel Tablet group , and 1 , 377 women in the Plan B group ( 2 doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart ) .
The mean age of women given Levonorgestrel Tablet was 27 years .
The racial demographic of those enrolled was 54 % Chinese , 12 % Other Asian or Black , and 34 % were Caucasian in each treatment group .
1 . 6 % of women in the Levonorgestrel Tablet group and 1 . 4 % in Plan B group were lost to follow - up .
The most common adverse events ( > 10 % ) in the clinical trial for women receiving Levonorgestrel Tablet included heavier menstrual bleeding ( 30 . 9 % ) , nausea ( 13 . 7 % ) , lower abdominal pain ( 13 . 3 % ) , fatigue ( 13 . 3 % ) , and headache ( 10 . 3 % ) .
Table 1 lists those adverse events that were reported in > 4 % of Levonorgestrel Tablet users .
Most Common Adverse Events ( MedDRA ) Heavier menstrual bleeding 30 . 9 Nausea 13 . 7 Lower abdominal pain 13 . 3 Fatigue 13 . 3 Headache 10 . 3 Dizziness 9 . 6 Breast tenderness 8 . 2 Delay of menses ( > 7 days ) 4 . 5 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of Plan B ( 2 doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel taken 12 hours apart ) .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal Pain , Nausea , Vomiting General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Fatigue Nervous System Disorders Dizziness , Headache Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea , Irregular Menstruation , Oligomenorrhea , Pelvic Pain 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce enzymes , including CYP3A4 , that metabolize progestins may decrease the plasma concentrations of progestins , and may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills include : • Barbiturates • bosentan • carbamazepine • felbamate • griseofulvin • oxcarbazepine • phenytoin • rifampin • St . John ’ s wort • topiramate Significant changes ( increase or decrease ) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co - administration with HIV protease inhibitors or with non - nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors .
Consult the labeling of all concurrently used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with progestin - only pills or the potential for enzyme alterations .
Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes , such as CYP3A4 , may decrease the effectiveness of progestin - only pills .
( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Nursing Mothers : Small amounts of progestin pass into the breast milk of nursing women taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
( 8 . 3 ) • Levonorgestrel Tablet is not intended for use in premenarcheal ( 8 . 4 ) or postmenopausal females ( 8 . 5 ) .
8 . 1 Pregnancy Many studies have found no harmful effects on fetal development associated with long - term use of contraceptive doses of oral progestins .
The few studies of infant growth and development that have been conducted with progestin - only pills have not demonstrated significant adverse effects .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers In general , no adverse effects of progestin - only pills have been found on breastfeeding performance or on the health , growth , or development of the infant .
However , isolated post - marketing cases of decreased milk production have been reported .
Small amounts of progestins pass into the breast milk of nursing mothers taking progestin - only pills for long - term contraception , resulting in detectable steroid levels in infant plasma .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and efficacy of progestin - only pills for long - term contraception have been established in women of reproductive age .
Safety and efficacy are expected to be the same for postpubertal adolescents less than 17 years and for users 17 years and older .
Use of Levonorgestrel Tablet emergency contraception before menarche is not indicated .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women .
8 . 6 Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race .
However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
There was a non - statistically significant increased rate of pregnancy among Chinese women in the Levonorgestrel Tablet trial .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown .
8 . 7 Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Levonorgestrel Tablet .
8 . 8 Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Levonorgestrel Tablet .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Levonorgestrel is not a controlled substance .
There is no information about dependence associated with the use of Levonorgestrel Tablet .
10 OVERDOSAGE There are no data on overdosage of Levonorgestrel Tablet , although the common adverse event of nausea and associated vomiting may be anticipated .
11 DESCRIPTION Levonorgestrel Tablet contains 1 . 5 mg of a single active steroid ingredient , levonorgestrel [ 18 , 19 - Dinorpregn - 4 - en - 20 - yn - 3 - one - 13 - ethyl - 17 - hydroxy - , ( 17α ) - ( - ) - ] , a totally synthetic progestogen .
The inactive ingredients are colloidal silicon dioxide , pregelatinized starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , and talc .
Levonorgestrel has a molecular weight of 312 . 45 , and the following structural and molecular formulas : [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Emergency contraceptive pills are not effective if a woman is already pregnant .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is believed to act as an emergency contraceptive principally by preventing ovulation or fertilization ( by altering tubal transport of sperm and / or ova ) .
In addition , it may inhibit implantation ( by altering the endometrium ) .
It is not effective once the process of implantation has begun .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following a single dose administration of Levonorgestrel Tablet in 30 women under fasting conditions , maximum plasma concentrations of levonorgestrel of 19 . 1 ng / mL were reached at 1 . 7 hours .
See Table 2 .
Administration of Levonorgestrel tablet to 30 Healthy Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions [ / TC ] Mean ( ± SD ) Cmax ( ng / mL ) AUCt ( ng · hr / mL ) * AUCinf ( ng · hr / mL ) * Tmax ( hr ) ** t1 / 2 ( hr ) Levonorgestrel 19 . 1 ( 9 . 7 ) 294 . 8 ( 208 . 8 ) 307 . 5 ( 218 . 5 ) 1 . 7 ( 1 . 0 - 4 . 0 ) 27 . 5 ( 5 . 6 ) Cmax = maximum concentration AUCt = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to time of last determinable concentration AUCinf = area under the drug concentration curve from time 0 to infinity Tmax = time to maximum concentration t1 / 2 = elimination half life * N = 29 ** median ( range ) Effect of Food : The effect of food on the rate and the extent of levonorgestrel absorption following single oral administration of Levenorgestrel Tablet has not been evaluated .
Distribution The apparent volume of distribution of levonorgestrel is reported to be approximately 1 . 8 L / kg .
It is about 97 . 5 to 99 % protein - bound , principally to sex hormone binding globulin ( SHBG ) and , to a lesser extent , serum albumin .
Metabolism Following absorption , levonorgestrel is conjugated at the 17β - OH position to form sulfate conjugates and , to a lesser extent , glucuronide conjugates in plasma .
Significant amounts of conjugated and unconjugated 3α , 5β - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel are also present in plasma , along with much smaller amounts of 3α , 5α - tetrahydrolevonorgestrel and 16βhydroxylevonorgestrel .
Levonorgestrel and its phase I metabolites are excreted primarily as glucuronide conjugates .
Metabolic clearance rates may differ among individuals by several - fold , and this may account in part for the wide variation observed in levonorgestrel concentrations among users .
Excretion About 45 % of levonorgestrel and its metabolites are excreted in the urine and about 32 % are excreted in feces , mostly as glucuronide conjugates .
Specific Populations Pediatric This product is not intended for use in the premenarcheal population , and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Geriatric This product is not intended for use in postmenopausal women , and pharmacokinetic data are not available for this population .
Race No formal studies have evaluated the effect of race .
However , clinical trials demonstrated a higher pregnancy rate in Chinese women with both Plan B and the Yuzpe regimen ( another form of emergency contraception ) .
There was a non - statistically significant increased rate of pregnancy among Chinese women in the Levonorgestrel Tablet trial .
The reason for this apparent increase in the pregnancy rate with emergency contraceptives in Chinese women is unknown [ see USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the disposition of Levonorgestrel Tablet .
Renal Impairment No formal studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the disposition of Levonorgestrel Tablet .
Drug - Drug Interactions No formal drug - drug interaction studies were conducted with Levonorgestrel Tablet [ see DRUG INTERACTIONS ( 7 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity : There is no evidence of increased risk of cancer with short - term use of progestins .
There was no increase in tumorgenicity following administration of levonorgestrel to rats for 2 years at approximately 5 µg / day , to dogs for 7 years at up to 0 . 125 mg / kg / day , or to rhesus monkeys for 10 years at up to 250 µg / kg / day .
In another 7 year dog study , administration of levonorgestrel at 0 . 5 mg / kg / day did increase the number of mammary adenomas in treated dogs compared to controls .
There were no malignancies .
Genotoxicity : Levonorgestrel was not found to be mutagenic or genotoxic in the Ames Assay , in vitro mammalian culture assays utilizing mouse lymphoma cells and Chinese hamster ovary cells , and in an in vivo micronucleus assay in mice .
Fertility : There are no irreversible effects on fertility following cessation of exposures to levonorgestrel or progestins in general .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES A double - blind , randomized , multicenter , multinational study evaluated and compared the efficacy and safety of three different regimens for emergency contraception .
Subjects were enrolled at 15 sites in 10 countries ; the racial / ethnic characteristics of the study population overall were 54 % Chinese , 34 % Caucasian , and 12 % Black or Asian ( other than Chinese ) .
2 , 381 healthy women with a mean age of 27 years , who needed emergency contraception within 72 hours of unprotected intercourse were involved and randomly allocated into one of the two levonorgestrel groups .
A single dose of 1 . 5 mg of levonorgestrel was administered to women allocated into group 1 .
Two doses of 0 . 75 mg levonorgestrel 12 hours apart ( Plan B ) were administered to women in group 2 .
In the Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg group , 16 pregnancies occurred in 1 , 198 women and in the Plan B group , 20 pregnancies occurred in 1 , 183 women .
The number of pregnancies expected in each group was calculated based on the timing of intercourse with regard to each woman ’ s menstrual cycle .
Among women receiving Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg 84 % of expected pregnancies were prevented and among those women taking Plan B , 79 % of expected pregnancies were prevented .
The expected pregnancy rate of 8 % ( with no contraceptive use ) was reduced to approximately 1 % with Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg .
Emergency contraceptives are not as effective as routine contraception since their failure rate , while low based on a single use , would accumulate over time with repeated use [ see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ( 1 ) ] .
In the clinical study , bleeding disturbances were the most common adverse event reported after taking the levonorgestrel - containing regimens .
More than half of the women had menses within two days of the expected time ; however , 31 % of women experienced change in their bleeding pattern during the study period ; 4 . 5 % of women had menses more than 7 days after the expected time .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg is available in a PVC / aluminum foil blister package .
The tablet is a white to off - white , round , flat , debossed with “ NL 620 ” on one side and plain on the other side containing 1 . 5 mg of levonorgestrel .
NDC 63704 - 009 - 01 ( 1 tablet unit of use package ) Store Levonorgestrel Tablet at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION 17 . 1 Information for Patients • Take Levonorgestrel Tablets as soon as possible and not more than 72 hours after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure .
• If you vomit within two hours of taking the tablet , immediately contact your healthcare provider to discuss whether to take another tablet .
• Seek medical attention if you experience severe lower abdominal pain 3 to 5 weeks after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet , in order to be evaluated for an ectopic pregnancy .
• After taking Levonorgestrel Tablet , consider the possibility of pregnancy if your period is delayed more than one week beyond the date you expected your period .
• Do not use Levonorgestrel Tablet as routine contraception .
• Levonorgestrel Tablet is not effective in terminating an existing pregnancy .
• Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against HIV - infection ( AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases / infections .
• For women younger than age 17 years , Levonorgestrel Tablet is available only by prescription .
Mfg . for : Pharmacist Pharmaceutical , LLC Salem , VA 24153 PI6203003501 Iss .
April 2013 Medication Guide Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive Because the unexpected happens .
Important information about Levonorgestrel Tablets , Birth Control and Sexually Transmitted Diseases For additional information intended for healthcare professionals , please see enclosed Product Information for Levonorgestrel Tablet .
What is Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and is not to be used routinely .
Levonorgestrel Tablet can reduce your chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex ( if your regular birth control was used incorrectly or fails , or if you have had sex without birth control ) .
For example , if you were using a condom and it broke or slipped , if you did not use your regular birth control as you should have , or if you did not use any birth control , Levonorgestrel Tablet may work for you .
What Levonorgestrel Tablet is not .
Levonorgestrel Tablet will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used as regular birth control .
It is important to have another reliable source of birth control that is right for you .
Levonorgestrel Tablet will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases .
When is the appropriate time to use Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
You can use Levonorgestrel Tablet after you have had unprotected sex in the last 72 hours ( 3 days ) , and you do not want to become pregnant .
Levonorgestrel Tablet can be used as a backup or emergency method to regular birth control if , for example , • Your regular birth control method was used incorrectly or failed ( your partner ’ s condom broke or slipped ) • You made a mistake with your regular method • You did not use any birth control method When is it not appropriate to use Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
• Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used as a regular birth control method .
It does not work as well as most other forms of birth control when they are used consistently and correctly .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is a backup or emergency method of contraception .
• Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used if you are already pregnant because it will not work .
• Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in Levonorgestrel Tablet .
• Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against HIV ( the virus that causes AIDS ) or other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
The best ways to protect yourself against getting HIV or other STDs are to use a latex condom correctly with every sexual act or not to have sex at all .
How does Levonorgestrel Tablet work ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet is one pill with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for over 35 years .
Levonorgestrel Tablet contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that Levonorgestrel Tablet may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
You have only a few days to try to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take Levonorgestrel Tablet , the better it works .
Levonorgestrel Tablet should be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
How effective is Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
The sooner you take Levonorgestrel Tablet , the better it will work .
Take Levonorgestrel Tablet as soon as possible after unprotected sex .
If it is taken as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex , it will significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
Seven out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know if Levonorgestrel Tablet worked ?
Most women will have their next menstrual period at the expected time or within a week of the expected time .
If your menstrual period is delayed beyond 1 week , you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
What if I am already pregnant and use Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
There is no medical evidence that Levonorgestrel Tablet would harm a developing baby .
If you take Levonorgestrel Tablet ( accidentally ) after you are already pregnant or it does not work and you become pregnant , it is not likely to cause any harm to you or your pregnancy .
The pregnancy will continue .
Levonorgestrel Tablet will not work if you are already pregnant .
What should I do if my menstrual period is delayed beyond 1 week and I have severe lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain ?
If you have severe lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain about 3 to 5 weeks after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet , you may have a pregnancy outside the uterus , which is called a tubal pregnancy .
A tubal pregnancy requires immediate medical treatment , so you should see a healthcare professional right away .
Can I use Levonorgestrel Tablet for regular birth control ?
No .
Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used for regular birth control .
It is an emergency or backup method to be used if your regular birth control fails or is used incorrectly or if you have sex without birth control .
You should protect yourself against STDs and pregnancy every time you have sex .
If you have unprotected sex again after taking Levonorgestrel Tablet , it will not help protect you from getting pregnant .
How often can I use Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet is meant for emergency protection only , and is not designed to be used frequently .
If you find that you need to use emergency contraception often , talk to your healthcare professional and learn about methods of birth control and STD prevention that are right for you .
Will I experience any side effects from Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
When used as directed , Levonorgestrel Tablet is safe for women .
Some women will have mild , temporary side effects , such as menstrual changes , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , breast pain and vomiting .
These are similar to the side effects that some women have when taking regular birth control pills .
Some women taking Levonorgestrel Tablet will have menstrual changes such as spotting or bleeding before their next period .
Some women may have a heavier or lighter next period , or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you should get a pregnancy test .
What warnings should I know about when using Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against AIDS virus ( HIV ) or other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
Do not use : • If you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) • If you are allergic to levonogestrel or any of the ingredients in Levonorgestrel Tablet • For regular birth control When using this product , you may have : • Menstrual changes • Headache • Nausea • Dizziness • Lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain • Breast pain • Tiredness • Vomiting Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
What are the directions for using Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
Women 17 years of age and older : • Take Levonorgestrel Tablet as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex .
• If you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
Prescription only for women younger than age 17 .
If you are younger than age 17 , see a healthcare professional .
What should I do if I have questions about Levonorgestrel Tablet ?
If you have questions or need more information about this product , call our toll - free number , 1 - 800 - 224 - 4606 , visit our website at www . ecpill . com , or ask a healthcare professional .
Other information Tablet is enclosed in a blister seal .
Do not use if the blister seal is broken .
Store at room temperature 20 – 25 ° C ( 68 – 77 ° F ) .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
Active ingredient : Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , pregelatinized starch , magnesium stearate , talc , and lactose monohydrate Protect yourself in more ways than one !
If you are sexually active , but you are not ready for a pregnancy , it is important to use regular pregnancy protection .
There are many types of birth control .
Whichever type you choose , it is important to use your regular birth control method as directed .
This ensures that you have effective protection against pregnancy every time you have sex .
But things do not always go as planned .
For example , if you were using a condom and it broke or slipped , or if you did not use your regular birth control as you should have , or if you did not use any birth control , Levonorgestrel Tablet may work for you .
Levonorgestrel Tablet is an emergency contraceptive that helps prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex or when your birth control fails or is not used correctly .
Remember , Levonorgestrel Tablet is only for emergency pregnancy prevention .
There are many other products that work for regular birth control that are available by prescription or over - the - counter .
There is also another form of protection to think about when you have sex : protection against sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
Some common STDs are HIV / AIDS , chlamydia , genital herpes , gonorrhea , hepatitis , human papilloma virus ( HPV ) , genital warts , syphilis , and trichomonas .
Some of these STDs can be very serious and can lead to infertility ( inability to have a baby ) , problems during pregnancy , chronic illness , and even death .
All sexually active women are at risk of catching STDs because they may not know that their partner has an STD ( the partner himself may not know ) .
If your partner uses a latex condom correctly each and every time you have sex with him , this will help reduce , but not eliminate , the chance that you will catch an STD .
No other birth control methods will effectively protect you from STDs .
The female condom may give you some STD protection , but it is not as effective as a male latex condom .
For more information on STDs , call the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) AIDS / STD Hotline .
The CDC phone numbers are 1 - 800 - 342 - AIDS ( 2437 ) for English , 1 - 800 - 344 - 7432 for Spanish , or 1 - 800 - 243 - 7889 for hearing impaired , TDD .
Be sure to protect yourself against pregnancy and STDs by using some form of birth control plus a latex condom .
Of course , not having sex is the most effective way to prevent pregnancy and stay free of STDs Levonorgestrel Tablet is used to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sex .
Levonorgestrel Tablet should not be used for regular birth control , if you are already pregnant ( because it will not work ) , or if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any of the ingredients in Levonorgestrel Tablet .
The sooner you take Levonorgestrel Tablet the better it will work .
Levonorgestrel Tablet does not protect against the AIDS virus ( HIV ) or other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) Common side effects associated with the use of Levonorgestrel Tablet include menstrual changes , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , breast pain and vomiting .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 63704 - 009 - 01 Levonorgestrel Tablet , 1 . 5 mg Emergency Contraceptive [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
