Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 , 2 . 2 , 2 . 3 ) 03 / 2022 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Labetalol HCl Injection is indicated in severe hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Labetalol Hydrochloride ( HCl ) is a beta adrenergic blocker .
Labetalol HCl Injection is indicated in severe hypertension to lower blood pressure ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Administer Labetalol hydrochloride in sodium chloride injection or dextrose as a slow continuous infusion at a rate of 2 mL / min ( 2 mg / min ) .
( 2 . 2 ) ) • Alternatively , administer Labetalol hydrochloride injection in a prefilled syringe at 0 . 25 mg / kg ( up to a maximum of 20 mg ) over 2 minutes .
Additional injections of 40 or 80 mg can be given at 10 - minute intervals .
( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 General Information Inspect parenteral drug products for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution and container permit .
Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection : Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection are ready - to - use solutions and do not require further dilution .
Check for leaks by squeezing the bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution , as sterility may be impaired .
Do not add any additional medications to the bag .
Once infusion has started , discard any remaining at 24 hours .
Labetalol HCl Injection in a prefilled syringe Labetalol HCl Injection , USP , in a prefilled syringe is a ready - to - use solution that does not require further dilution .
The prefilled syringe is intended for single dose .
Discard any unused portion .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Choose intravenous administration by slow continuous infusion or repeated injection .
The usual intravenous dose is in the range of 50 to 200 mg , but the safety of doses above 300 mg has not been established .
Once supine diastolic blood pressure has begun to rise , transition to oral labetalol HCl .
Slow Continuous Infusion : Initiate at 2 mg / minute .
Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage and duration of infusion accordingly .
Repeated Intravenous Injection : Administer 0 . 25 mg / kg up to 20 mg over 2 minutes .
Administer 20 to 80 mg over 2 minutes at 10 - minute intervals until a desired supine blood pressure is achieved .
The maximum effect usually occurs within 5 minutes of each injection .
2 . 3 Instructions for Use of Labetalol HCl Injection Prefilled Syringe CAUTION : Glass syringes may malfunction , break or clog when connected to some Needleless Luer Access Devices ( NLADs ) and needles .
The external collar must remain attached to the syringe ( See Figure 1 ) .
Spontaneous disconnection of this glass syringe from needles and NLADs with leakage of drug product may occur .
Assure that the needle or NLAD is securely attached before beginning the injection .
Inspect the glass syringe - needle or glass syringe – NLAD connection before and during drug administration .
Figure 1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 .
Push plunger rod slightly to break the stopper loose while tip cap is still on .
2 .
Remove tip cap by twisting it off .
( See Figure 2 ) Figure 2 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Connect the syringe to an appropriate injection connection .
4 .
Depress plunger rod to deliver the required dose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection is available as 1 mg / mL in 100 - , 200 - , or 300 - mL bags .
Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection is available as 1 mg / mL in 200 - mL bags .
Labetalol HCl Injection , USP , in a prefilled syringe is available as 10 mg in 2 mL Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection 1 mg / mL in a single - dose 100 - , 200 - , or 300 - mL bag ( 3 ) Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection 1 mg / mL in a single - dose 200 - mL bag ( 3 ) Labetalol HCl Injection 10 mg in 2 mL in a single - dose prefilled syringe ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection iscontraindicated in patients with : • Bronchial asthma or obstructive airway disease .
• Severe sinus bradycardia : • Heart block greater than first degree .
• Cardiogenic shock .
• IV administration of non - dihydropyridine calcium - channel antagonists ( e . g . , verapamil ) • Hypersensitivity reactions , including anaphylaxis , to labetalol • Bronchial asthma ( 4 ) • Overt cardiac failure ( 4 ) • Greater - than - first - degree heart block ( 4 ) • Cardiogenic shock ( 4 ) • Severe bradycardia ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Exacerbation of heart failure : Avoid use .
( 5 . 3 ) • Acute exacerbation of coronary artery disease upon cessation of therapy : Do not abruptly discontinue .
( 5 . 4 ) • Non - allergic bronchospasm ( e . g . , chronic bronchitis and emphysema ) : Avoid since it has not been studied .
( 5 . 5 ) • Masked hypoglycemia : Monitor glucose as beta blockers may mask symptoms of hypoglycemia or worsen hyperglycemia .
( 5 . 6 ) • Exacerbation of pheochromocytoma : Paradoxical increases in blood pressure may occur .
( 5 . 7 ) • Severe hepatocellular injury : Discontinue permanently for liver injury or jaundice ( 5 . 8 ) 5 . 1 Hypotension Symptomatic postural hypotension ( incidence , 58 % ) is likely to occur if patients are tilted or allowed to assume the upright position within 3 hours of receiving labetalol HCl injection .
Before permitting any ambulation , establish patient ’ s ability to tolerate an upright position and observe the patient at the time of first ambulation .
5 . 2 Bradycardia Bradycardia , including sinus pause , heart block , severe bradycardia , and cardiac arrest have occurred with the use of beta blockers .
Monitor heart rate and rhythm in patients receiving labetalol hydrochloride injection .
5 . 3 Cardiac Failure Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure .
Beta - blockade carries a potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure .
Avoid labetalol HCl injection in patients with overt congestive heart failure .
If patients develop signs or symptoms of heart failure during administration , discontinue labetalol and treat appropriately .
5 . 4 Ischemic Heart Disease Abrupt cessation of therapy with beta blocking agents in patients with coronary artery disease , can cause exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction has been reported .
Therefore , even in the absence of overt angina pectoris , after the discontinuation of labetalol HCl injection observe patients for development or worsening of angina .
If patient experiences angina or angina markedly worsens or if acute coronary insufficiency develops , promptly reinstitute labetalol HCl injection and manage as unstable angina .
5 . 5 Reactive Airway Disease and Nonallergic Bronchospasm Patients with reactive airways disease should , in general , not receive beta blockers .
Labetalol HCl at the usual intravenous therapeutic doses has not been studied in patients with nonallergic bronchospastic disease .
In the event of bronchospasm , stop the infusion immediately , and treat as appropriate .
5 . 6 Use in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and Hypoglycemia In patients with hypoglycemia , or diabetic patients ( especially those with labile diabetes ) who are receiving insulin or other hypoglycemic agents , beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be masked .
Concomitant use of beta - blockers and antidiabetic agents can enhance the glucose - lowering effect of antidiabetic agents .
Monitor glycemic levels in patients receiving labetalol HCl injection .
5 . 7 Use in Patients with Pheochromocytoma Intravenous labetalol has been shown to lower blood pressure and relieve symptoms in patients with pheochromocytoma ; higher than usual doses may be required .
However , paradoxical hypertensive responses have been reported in a few patients with this tumor ; therefore , monitor blood pressure when administering intravenous labetalol HCl to patients with pheochromocytoma .
5 . 8 Hepatic Injury Severe hepatocellular injury occurs rarely with labetalol therapy .
The hepatic injury is usually reversible , but hepatic necrosis and death have been reported .
If the patient develops signs or symptoms of liver injury , institute appropriate treatment and investigate the probable cause .
Do not restart labetalol in patients without another explanation for the observed liver injury .
5 . 9 Use in Patients at Risk of Severe Acute Hypersensitivity Reactions Patients at risk of anaphylactic reactions may be more reactive to allergen exposure ( accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic ) .
Patients using beta - blockers may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions .
Avoid labetalol HCl injection in patients at high risk of anaphylactic reactions .
5 . 10 Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome ( IFIS ) IFIS has been observed during cataract surgery in some patients treated with alpha - 1 blockers ( labetalol is an alpha / beta blocker ) .
This variant of small pupil syndrome is characterized by the combination of flaccid iris that billows in response to intraoperative irrigation currents , progressive intraoperative miosis despite preoperative dilation with standard mydriatic drugs , and potential prolapse of the iris toward the phacoemulsification incisions .
Inform the patient ’ s ophthalmologist to be prepared for possible modifications to the surgical technique , such as the utilization of iris hooks , iris dilator rings , or viscoelastic substances .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant adverse reactions are described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Bradycardia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Depression of myocardial contractility in patients with overt congestive heart failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Aggravation of angina [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Significant decline in cardiac output following coronary bypass [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Bronchospasm in patients with reactive airway disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Paradoxical hypertensive responses in patients with pheochromocytoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] • Hepatic injury [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 8 ) ] • Acute hypersensitivity reaction [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 9 ) ] Most common adverse events : • Symptomatic postural hypotension .
( 6 ) • Nausea 13 % , dizziness 9 % ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc . at 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 , or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
For product Inquiry call 1 - 877 - 845 - 0689 .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Most adverse effects have been mild and transient and , in controlled trials involving 92 patients , did not require labetalol withdrawal .
Symptomatic postural hypotension ( incidence , 58 % ) is likely to occur if patients are tilted or allowed to assume the upright position within 3 hours of receiving labetalol HCl .
Moderate hypotension occurred in 1 of 100 patients while supine .
Increased sweating was noted in 4 of 100 patients , and flushing occurred in 1 of 100 patients .
The following also were reported with labetalol HCl with the incidence as noted : Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems Dizziness in 9 % Paresthesia , most frequently described as tingling of the scalp / skin in 7 % Gastrointestinal System Nausea in 13 % Vomiting in 4 % Metabolic Disorders Transient increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels occurred in 8 % ; these were associated with drops in blood pressure , generally in patients with prior renal insufficiency .
Respiratory System Bronchospasm In addition , a number of other less common adverse events have been reported : Cardiovascular : Hypotension , and rarely , syncope , bradycardia , heart block .
Liver and Biliary System Hepatic necrosis , hepatitis , cholestatic jaundice , elevated liver function tests .
Hypersensitivity Rare reports of hypersensitivity ( e . g . , rash , urticaria , pruritus , angioedema , dyspnea ) and anaphylactoid reactions .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta blocker practolol has not been reported with labetalol HCl during investigational use and extensive foreign marketing experience .
Clinical Laboratory Tests Among patients dosed with labetalol tablets , there have been reversible increases of serum transaminases in 4 % of patients tested and , more rarely , reversible increases in blood urea .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Beta blockers antagonize the bronchodilator effect of beta - receptor agonists .
( 7 . 1 ) • Increase hypotension may occur with halothane anesthesia .
( 7 . 2 ) • Nitroglycerin may result in additional hypotensive effects .
( 7 . 3 ) 7 . 1 Bronchodilators Labetalol HCl antagonizes the bronchodilatory effect of beta - receptor agonist drugs ; therefore , labetalol HCl is contraindicated in patients with bronchial asthma [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
7 . 2 Anesthesia Synergism has been shown between halothane anesthesia and intravenously administered labetalol .
During controlled hypotensive anesthesia using labetalol in association with halothane , high concentrations ( 3 % or above ) of halothane should not be used because the degree of hypotension will be increased and because of the possibility of a large reduction in cardiac output and an increase in central venous pressure .
7 . 3 Nitroglycerin Coadministration of labetalol HCl and nitroglycerin will have an additive effect in lowering blood pressure .
Additionally , labetalol HCl blunts the reflex tachycardia produced by nitroglycerin .
If labetalol is used in patients with angina pectoris on nitroglycerin , monitor patients ’ blood pressure and adjust labetalol HCl injection dose as needed .
In these patients , avoid initiating labetalol HCl tablets .
7 . 4 Calcium Channel Blockers Coadministration of labetalol HCl with non - dihydropyrindine calcium - channel antagonists ( e . g . , verapamil ) is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Avoid the use of labetalol in patients receiving calcium - channel antagonists .
7 . 5 Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions The presence of labetalol metabolites in the urine may result in falsely elevated levels of urinary catecholamines , metanephrine , normetanephrine , and vanillylmandelic acid ( VMA ) when measured by fluorimetric or photometric methods .
In screening patients suspected of having a pheochromocytoma and being treated with labetalol , a specific method , such as a high - performance liquid chromatographic assay with solid phase extraction should be employed in determining levels of catecholamines .
Labetalol has also been reported to produce a false - positive test for amphetamine when screening urine for the presence of drugs using the commercially available assay methods .
When patients being treated with labetalol have a positive urine test for amphetamine using these techniques , confirm using more specific methods , such as a gas chromatographic - mass spectrometer technique .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary The extensive experience with use of labetalol in pregnant women , based on published interventional and observational studies , has not identified a drug - associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ( see Data ) .
Untreated hypertension during pregnancy can lead to serious adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
In animal reproduction studies , oral administration of labetalol to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to approximately six and four times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively , resulted in no fetal malformations ; however , increased fetal resorptions were seen in both species at doses approximating the MRHD ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Labetalol crosses the placenta .
Neonates born to mothers who are receiving labetalol during pregnancy , may be at risk for hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia , and respiratory depression .
Neonates should be monitored for symptoms of hypotension , bradycardia , hypoglycemia and respiratory depression and manage accordingly .
Data Human Data Data from published interventional and observational studies did not demonstrate an association between major congenital malformations and the use of labetalol in pregnancy , however , most studies reported the maternal use of intravenous labetalol occurring after 20 weeks gestation . The published literature has reported inconsistent findings of intrauterine growth retardation , preterm birth and perinatal mortality with maternal use of labetalol during pregnancy ; however , these studies have methodological limitations hindering interpretation .
These studies cannot definitively establish the absence of risk during pregnancy .
Animal Data Teratogenic studies were performed with labetalol in rats and rabbits at oral doses up to approximately six and four times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) , respectively .
No reproducible evidence of fetal malformations was observed .
Increased fetal resorptions were seen in both species at doses approximating the MRHD .
A teratology study performed with labetalol in rabbits at intravenous doses up to 1 . 7 times the MRHD revealed no evidence of drug - related harm to the fetus .
Oral administration of labetalol to rats during late gestation through weaning at doses of two to four times the MRHD caused a decrease in neonatal survival .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Available published data report the presence oflabetalol in human milk at low levels .
There are no data on the effects on the breastfed infant and on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for labetalol and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from labetalol or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 3 Females and Males of Reproductive Potential Infertility Based on the published literature , beta blockers , including labetalol , may cause erectile dysfunction and inhibit sperm motility .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Some pharmacokinetic studies indicate that the elimination of labetalol is reduced in elderly patients [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Geriatric patients treated with labetalol could initiate therapy at the currently recommended dose of 2 mg / minute by continuous intravenous infusion ; however , lower maintenance dosages are generally required for elderly patients than nonelderly patients .
Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage and duration of infusion accordingly until the desired response is obtained [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms of Overdose Overdosage with labetalol HCl causes excessive hypotension that is posture sensitive and , sometimes , excessive bradycardia .
Patients should be placed supine and their legs raised if necessary , to improve the blood supply to the brain .
Treat symptoms of overdose with standard supportive care .
If overdosage with labetalol HCl follows oral ingestion , gastric lavage or pharmacologically induced emesis ( using syrup of ipecac ) may be useful for removal of the drug shortly after ingestion .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the general circulation ( < 1 % ) .
The oral LD50 value of labetalol HCl in the mouse is approximately 600 mg / kg and in the rat is greater than 2 g / kg .
The intravenous LD50 in these species is 50 to 60 mg / kg .
11 DESCRIPTION Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection , Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection and Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection , USP contain labetalol HCl an adrenergic receptor blocking agent that has both selective alpha1 - adrenergic and nonselective beta - adrenergic receptor blocking actions in a single substance .
Labetalol hydrochloride ( HCl ) is a racemate chemically designated as 5 - [ 1 - Hydroxy - 2 - [ ( 1 - methyl - 3 - phenylpropyl ) amino ] ethyl ] - salicylamide monohydrochloride and it has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Labetalol HCl is a white or off - white crystalline powder , soluble in water .
Labetalol HCl has the molecular formula C19H24N2O3 • HCl and a molecular weight of 364 . 87 .
It has two asymmetric centers and therefore exists as a molecular complex of two diastereoisomeric pairs .
Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection are two preservative - free , ready - to use formulations of labetalol . Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection are clear , colorless to light yellow , aqueous , sterile , isotonic solution for intravenous injection .
Each milliliter of Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection contains 1 mg of labetalol HCl , 7 . 2 mg sodium chloride , 9 mg of anhydrous dextrose , 0 . 02 mg of edetate disodium ; and citric acid monohydrate and sodium hydroxide , as necessary , to bring the solution into the pH range of 3 . 5 to 4 . 5 .
Each milliliter of Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection contains 1 mg of labetalol HCl , 45 mg of anhydrous dextrose , 0 . 02 mg of edetate disodium ; and citric acid monohydrate and sodium hydroxide , as necessary , to bring the solution into the pH range of 3 . 5 to 4 . 5 .
Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection in a prefilled syringe is a preservative - free , ready - to use formulation of labetalol . Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection is a clear , colorless to light yellow , aqueous , sterile , isotonic solution for intravenous injection .
Each milliliter of the Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 2 mL prefilled syringe contains labetalol hydrochloride 5 mg ; anhydrous dextrose 45 mg ; edetate disodium 0 . 1 mg ; citric acid monohydrate and sodium hydroxide as necessary to bring the pH into a range of 3 . 0 to 4 . 5 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Labetalol has both competitive alpha1 - adrenergic blocking and competitive beta - adrenergic blocking activity .
In man , the ratio of alpha - to beta - blockade has been estimated to be approximately 1 : 7 following intravenous administration .
Beta2 - agonist activity has been demonstrated in animals with minimal beta1 - agonist activity detected .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a clinical pharmacologic study in severe hypertensives , an initial 0 . 25 mg / kg injection of labetalol HCl administered to patients in the supine position decreased blood pressure by an average of 11 / 7 mmHg .
Additional injections of 0 . 5 mg / kg at 15 - minute intervals up to a total cumulative dose of 1 . 75 mg / kg of labetalol HCl caused further dose - related decreases in blood pressure .
Some patients required cumulative doses of up to 3 . 25 mg / kg .
The maximal effect of each dose level occurred within 5 minutes .
Following discontinuation of intravenous treatment with labetalol HCl , the blood pressure rose gradually and progressively , approaching pretreatment baseline values within an average of 16 to 18 hours in the majority of patients .
Similar results were obtained in the treatment of patients with severe hypertension who required urgent blood pressure reduction with an initial dose of 20 mg ( which corresponds to 0 . 25 mg / kg for an 80 kg patient ) followed by additional doses of either 40 or 80 mg at 10 minute intervals to achieve the desired effect , or up to a cumulative dose of 300 mg .
Labetalol HCl administered as a continuous intravenous infusion , with a mean dose of 136 mg ( 27 to 300 mg ) over a period of 2 to 3 hours ( mean of 2 hours and 39 minutes ) , lowered the blood pressure by an average of 60 / 35 mmHg .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Distribution Labetalol has been shown to cross the placental barrier in humans .
Only negligible amounts of the drug crossed the blood - brain barrier in animal studies .
Labetalol is approximately 50 % protein bound .
Neither hemodialysis nor peritoneal dialysis removes a significant amount of labetalol from the systemic circulation ( < 1 % ) .
Elimination Following intravenous infusion of labetalol , the elimination half - life is about 5 . 5 hours and the total body clearance is approximately 33 mL / min / kg .
Steady - state plasma levels of labetalol during repetitive dosing are reached following 22 to 28 hours of continuous infusion .
Metabolism The metabolism of labetalol is mainly through conjugation to glucuronide metabolites .
Excretion Approximately 55 % to 60 % of a dose appears in the urine as conjugates or unchanged labetalol within the first 24 hours of dosing .
The metabolites are present in plasma and are excreted in the urine and , via the bile , into the feces .
Specific Populations Patients with Renal or Hepatic Impairment In patients with decreased hepatic or renal function , the elimination half - life of labetalol is not altered .
Geriatric Patients Some pharmacokinetic studies indicate that the elimination of labetalol is reduced in elderly patients .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis and Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term oral dosing studies with labetalol for 18 months in mice and for 2 years in rats showed no evidence of carcinogenesis .
Studies with labetalol using dominant lethal assays in rats and mice and exposing microorganisms according to modified Ames tests showed no evidence of mutagenesis .
16 HOW SUPPLIED 16 . 1 How Supplied Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection are preservative - free , clear , colorless to light yellow sterile solutions that are available in a single - dose single - port bag with an aluminum overwrap .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
It is available in the following presentations : Product Strength Package NDC Number Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection 100 mg / 100 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) preservative - free 1 single - dose bag 0143 - 9363 - 01 Box of 10 bags 0143 - 9363 - 10 Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection 200 mg / 200 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) preservative - free 1 single - dose bag 0143 - 9364 - 01 Box of 10 bags 0143 - 9364 - 10 Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection 300 mg / 300 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) preservative - free 1 single - dose bag 0143 - 9365 - 01 Box of 10 bags 0143 - 9365 - 10 Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection 200 mg / 200 mL ( 1 mg / mL ) preservative - free 1 single - dose bag 0143 - 9366 - 01 Box of 10 bags 0143 - 9366 - 10 Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection , USP is a preservative - free , clear , colorless to light yellow sterile solution that is available in a single - dose prefilled syringe .
It is available in the following presentations : Product Strength Package NDC Number Labetalol Hydrochloride Injection , USP 10 mg / 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) preservative - free 1 single - dose prefilled syringe 0641 - 6252 - 01 Carton of 10 prefilled syringes 0641 - 6252 - 10 16 . 2 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Do not freeze .
Protect from light .
Labetalol HCl in Sodium Chloride Injection and Labetalol HCl in Dextrose Injection : Do not remove from overwrap until ready to use .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION • Advise patients to remain supine and to proceed gradually in becoming ambulatory during and immediately following infusion ( for up to 3 hours ) of labetalol HCl injection .
• Inform patient to notify their healthcare provider if they experience symptoms of hypotension .
Rx Only Distributed by Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc .
Berkeley Heights , NJ 07922 462 - 942 - 00 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0641 - 6252 - 01 Rx only 2 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringe Labetalol HCl Injection , USP 10 mg per 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use ONLY .
Protect from freezing and light .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0641 - 6252 - 10 Rx only Labetalol HCl Injection , USP 10 mg per 2 mL ( 5 mg / mL ) For Intravenous Use ONLY .
Preservative Free 10 x 2 mL Single - Dose Prefilled Syringes Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] SERIALIZATION IMAGE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
