1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE OXYTROL is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder in men with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
OXYTROL is a muscarinic antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder in men with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day should be applied to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , hip , or buttock twice weekly ( every 3 or 4 days ) .
A new application site should be selected with each new system to avoid re - application to the same site within 7 days .
• Apply OXYTROL transdermal system twice weekly ( every 3 to 4 days ) to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , hip , or buttocks .
( 2 ) • Select a new application site with each new system to avoid re - application to the same site within 7 days .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Transdermal System : 3 . 9 mg / day Transdermal system : 3 . 9 mg / day ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS The use of OXYTROL is contraindicated in the following conditions : • Urinary retention • Gastric retention • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma • Known serious hypersensitivity reaction to OXYTROL , oxybutynin , or to any of the components of OXYTROL [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
• Urinary retention ( 4 ) • Gastric retention ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( 4 ) • Known serious hypersensitivity reaction to OXYTROL , oxybutynin , or to any of the components of OXYTROL ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Urinary Retention : Use caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention .
( 5 . 1 ) • Gastrointestinal Disorders : Use caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders or decreased intestinal motility because of the risk of gastric retention .
Use caution in patients with gastroesophageal reflux and / or those taking drugs that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
( 5 . 2 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Somnolence has been reported with products containing oxybutynin .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how OXYTROL affects them .
( 5 . 3 ) • Angioedema : Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use .
If symptoms of angioedema occur , discontinue OXYTROL and initiate appropriate therapy .
( 5 . 4 ) • Skin Hypersensitivity : Discontinue OXYTROL in patients with skin hypersensitivity .
( 5 . 5 ) • Myasthenia gravis : Avoid use in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Urinary Retention Administer OXYTROL with caution in patients with clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 2 Risks in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders Administer OXYTROL with caution to patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the risk of gastric retention [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
OXYTROL , like other anticholinergic drugs , may decrease gastrointestinal motility and should be used with caution in patients with conditions such as ulcerative colitis or intestinal atony .
OXYTROL should be used with caution in patients who have hiatus hernia / gastroesophageal reflux and / or who are concurrently taking drugs ( such as bisphosphonates ) that can cause or exacerbate esophagitis .
5 . 3 Central Nervous System Effects Products containing oxybutynin are associated with anticholinergic central nervous system ( CNS ) effects .
A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported , including headache , dizziness , somnolence , confusion and hallucinations [ see Adverse Events ( 6 . 2 , 6 . 3 ) ] .
Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects , particularly after beginning treatment .
Advise patients not to drive or operate heavy machinery until they know how OXYTROL affects them .
If a patient experiences anticholinergic CNS effects , drug discontinuation should be considered .
5 . 4 Angioedema Angioedema requiring hospitalization and emergency medical treatment has occurred with the first or subsequent doses of oral oxybutynin .
In the event of angioedema , OXYTROL should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided .
5 . 5 Skin Hypersensitivity Patients who develop skin hypersensitivity to OXYTROL should discontinue drug treatment .
5 . 6 Exacerbation of Symptoms of Myasthenia Gravis Avoid use of OXYTROL in patients with myasthenia gravis , a disease characterized by decreased cholinergic activity at the neuromuscular junction .
If experiencing exacerbation of symptoms of myasthenia gravis , oxybutynin - containing product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy promptly provided .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 5 % and > placebo ) are application site reactions and dry mouth .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Allergan at 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 or contact the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety of OXYTROL was evaluated in a total of 417 patients who participated in two clinical efficacy and safety studies and an open - label extension .
Additional safety information was collected in earlier phase trials .
In the two pivotal studies , a total of 246 patients received OXYTROL during the 12 - week treatment periods .
A total of 411 patients entered the open - label extension and of those , 65 patients and 52 patients received OXYTROL for at least 24 weeks and at least 36 weeks , respectively .
No deaths were reported during treatment .
No serious adverse events related to treatment were reported .
Adverse reactions reported in the pivotal trials are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 below .
Table 1 : Number ( % ) of adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of OXYTROL - treated patients and greater in the OXYTROL group than in the placebo group ( Study 1 ) .
Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 132 ) OXYTROL ( 3 . 9 mg / day ) ( N = 125 ) N % N % Application site pruritus 8 6 . 1 % 21 16 . 8 % Dry mouth 11 8 . 3 % 12 9 . 6 % Application site erythema 3 2 . 3 % 7 5 . 6 % Application site vesicles 0 0 . 0 % 4 3 . 2 % Diarrhea 3 2 . 3 % 4 3 . 2 % Dysuria 0 0 . 0 % 3 2 . 4 % Table 2 : Number ( % ) of adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2 % of OXYTROL - treated patients and greater in the OXYTROL group than in the placebo group ( Study 2 ) .
Adverse Reaction Placebo ( N = 117 ) OXYTROL ( 3 . 9 mg / day ) ( N = 121 ) N % N % Application site pruritus 5 4 . 3 % 17 14 . 0 % Application site erythema 2 1 . 7 % 10 8 . 3 % Dry mouth 2 1 . 7 % 5 4 . 1 % Constipation 0 0 . 0 % 4 3 . 3 % Application site rash 1 0 . 9 % 4 3 . 3 % Application site macules 0 0 . 0 % 3 2 . 5 % Abnormal vision 0 0 . 0 % 3 2 . 5 % Most adverse reactions were described as mild or moderate in intensity .
Severe application site reactions were reported by 6 . 4 % of OXYTROL - treated patients in Study 1 and by 5 . 0 % of OXYTROL - treated patients in Study 2 .
Adverse reactions that resulted in discontinuation were reported by 11 . 2 % of OXYTROL - treated patients in Study 1 and 10 . 7 % of OXYTROL - treated patients in Study 2 .
Most of these discontinuations were due to application site reaction .
In the two pivotal studies , no patient discontinued OXYTROL treatment due to dry mouth .
In the open - label extension , the most common treatment - related adverse reactions were : application site pruritus , application site erythema , and dry mouth .
In a controlled clinical trial of skin sensitization , none of the 103 test subjects demonstrated skin hypersensitivity to OXYTROL .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of OXYTROL .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Nervous System Disorders : Memory impairment , dizziness , somnolence , confusion Psychiatric Disorders : Delirium , hallucinations 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No specific drug - drug interaction studies have been performed with OXYTROL .
Other Anticholinergics ( muscarinic antagonists ) : Concomitant use with other anticholinergic agents may increase the frequency and / or severity of dry mouth , constipation , blurred vision , and other anticholinergic pharmacological effects .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Other Anticholinergics The concomitant use of OXYTROL with other anticholinergic drugs , or with other agents that produce dry mouth , constipation , somnolence , and / or other anticholinergic - like effects may increase the frequency and / or severity of such effects .
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility .
7 . 2 Cytochrome P450 Inhibitors Pharmacokinetic studies have not been performed with patients concomitantly receiving cytochrome P450 enzyme inhibitors , such as antimycotic agents ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , and miconazole ) or macrolide antibiotics ( e . g . , erythromycin and clarithromycin ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no studies with topical or oral oxybutynin use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk for birth defects or miscarriage .
No adverse developmental outcomes were observed in animal reproduction studies when oxybutynin chloride was administered to pregnant rats and rabbits during organogenesis at approximately 50 and 1 times , respectively , the maximum human dose based on body surface area ( see Data ) In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % respectively .
Data Animal Data Subcutaneous administration of oxybutynin chloride to rats at doses up to 25 mg / kg ( approximately 50 times the human exposure based on surface area ) and to rabbits at doses up to 0 . 4 mg / kg ( approximately 1 times the human exposure based on body surface area ) throughout the period of organogenesis revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information on the presence of oxybutynin in human milk , the effects on the breastfed child , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for OXYTROL and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from OXYTROL or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of OXYTROL in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Forty - nine percent of OXYTROL - treated patients in the clinical studies were at least 65 years of age .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients , and other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out [ seeClinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE The plasma concentration of oxybutynin declines within 1 to 2 hours after removal of transdermal system ( s ) .
Patients should be monitored until symptoms resolve .
Overdosage with oxybutynin has been associated with anticholinergic effects including CNS excitation , flushing , fever , dehydration , cardiac arrhythmia , vomiting , and urinary retention .
Ingestion of 100 mg oral oxybutynin chloride in association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 year old boy who experienced memory loss , and in a 34 year old woman who developed stupor , followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening , dilated pupils , dry skin , cardiac arrhythmia , and retention of urine .
Both patients recovered fully with treatment directed at their symptoms .
11 DESCRIPTION OXYTROL ( oxybutynin transdermal system ) is designed to deliver oxybutynin over a 3 - to 4 - day interval after application to intact skin .
OXYTROL is available as a 39 cm2 system containing 36 mg of oxybutynin .
OXYTROL has a nominal in vivo delivery rate of 3 . 9 mg oxybutynin per day through skin of average permeability ( inter - individual variation in skin permeability is approximately 20 % ) .
Oxybutynin is an antispasmodic , anticholinergic agent .
Oxybutynin is administered as a racemate of R - and S - isomers .
Chemically , oxybutynin is d , l ( racemic ) 4 - diethylamino - 2 - butynyl phenylcyclohexylglycolate .
The empirical formula of oxybutynin is C22H31NO3 .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Oxybutynin is a white powder with a molecular weight of 357 .
It is soluble in alcohol , but relatively insoluble in water .
OXYTROL is a matrix - type transdermal system composed of three layers as illustrated in Figure 1 .
Layer 1 ( Backing Film ) is a thin flexible polyester / ethylene - vinyl acetate film that provides the matrix system with occlusivity and physical integrity and protects the adhesive / drug layer .
Layer 2 ( Adhesive / Drug Layer ) is a cast film of acrylic adhesive containing oxybutynin and triacetin , USP .
Layer 3 ( Release Liner ) is two overlapped siliconized polyester strips that are peeled off and discarded by the patient prior to applying the matrix system .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The free base form of oxybutynin is pharmacologically equivalent to oxybutynin hydrochloride .
Oxybutynin acts as a competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at postganglionic muscarinic receptors , resulting in relaxation of bladder smooth muscle .
In patients with conditions characterized by involuntary detrusor contractions , cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases maximum urinary bladder capacity and increases the volume to first detrusor contraction .
Oxybutynin is a racemic ( 50 : 50 ) mixture of R - and S - isomers .
Antimuscarinic activity resides predominantly in the R - isomer .
The active metabolite , N - desethyloxybutynin , has pharmacological activity on the human detrusor muscle that is similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro studies .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Oxybutynin is transported across intact skin and into the systemic circulation by passive diffusion across the stratum corneum .
The average daily dose of oxybutynin absorbed from the 39 cm2 OXYTROL system is 3 . 9 mg .
The average ( SD ) nominal dose , 0 . 10 ( 0 . 02 ) mg oxybutynin per cm2 surface area , was obtained from analysis of residual oxybutynin content of systems worn over a continuous 4 - day period during 303 separate occasions in 76 healthy volunteers .
Following application of the first OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day system , oxybutynin plasma concentrations increase for approximately 24 to 48 hours , reaching average maximum concentrations of 3 to 4 ng / mL .
Thereafter , steady concentrations are maintained for up to 96 hours .
Absorption of oxybutynin is bioequivalent when OXYTROL is applied to the abdomen , buttocks , or hip .
Average plasma concentrations measured during a randomized , crossover study of the three recommended application sites in 24 healthy men and women are shown in Figure 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Steady - state conditions are reached during the second OXYTROL application .
Average steady - state plasma concentrations were 3 . 1 ng / mL for oxybutynin and 3 . 8 ng / mL for N - desethyloxybutynin ( Figure 3 ) .
Table 3 provides a summary of pharmacokinetic parameters of oxybutynin in healthy volunteers after single and multiple applications of OXYTROL .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Table 3 : Mean ( SD ) oxybutynin pharmacokinetic parameters from single and multiple dose studies in healthy men and women volunteers after application of OXYTROL on the abdomen .
Dosing Oxybutynin Cmax ( SD ) ( ng / mL ) Tmax ‡ ( hr ) Cavg ( SD ) ( ng / mL ) AUC ( SD ) ( ng / mLxh ) Single 3 . 0 ( 0 . 8 ) 48 - 245 ( 59 ) § 3 . 4 ( 1 . 1 ) 36 - 279 ( 99 ) § Multiple 6 . 6 ( 2 . 4 ) 10 4 . 2 ( 1 . 1 ) 408 ( 108 ) ¶ 4 . 2 ( 1 . 0 ) 28 3 . 1 ( 0 . 7 ) 259 ( 57 ) # Þ ‡ Tmax given as median § AUCinf ¶ AUC0 - 96 # Þ AUC0 - 84 Distribution Oxybutynin is widely distributed in body tissues following systemic absorption .
The volume of distribution was estimated to be 193 L after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin chloride .
Metabolism Oxybutynin is metabolized primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems , particularly CYP3A4 , found mostly in the liver and gut wall .
Metabolites include phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid , which is pharmacologically inactive , and N - desethyloxybutynin , which is pharmacologically active .
After oral administration of oxybutynin , pre - systemic first - pass metabolism results in an oral bioavailability of approximately 6 % and higher plasma concentration of the N - desethyl metabolite compared to oxybutynin ( see Figure 4 ) .
The plasma concentration area under the time - concentration curve ( AUC ) ratio of N - desethyl metabolite to parent compound following a single 5 mg oral dose of oxybutynin chloride was 11 . 9 : 1 .
Transdermal administration of oxybutynin bypasses first - pass gastrointestinal and hepatic metabolism , reducing the formation of the N - desethyl metabolite ( see Figure 4 ) .
Only small amounts of CYP3A4 are found in skin , limiting pre - systemic metabolism during transdermal absorption .
The resulting plasma concentration AUC ratio of N - desethyl metabolite to parent compound following multiple OXYTROL applications was 1 . 3 : 1 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Following intravenous administration , the elimination half - life of oxybutynin is approximately 2 hours .
Following removal of OXYTROL , plasma concentrations of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin decline with an apparent half - life of approximately 7 to 8 hours .
Excretion Oxybutynin is extensively metabolized by the liver , with less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose excreted unchanged in the urine .
Also , less than 0 . 1 % of the administered dose is excreted as the metabolite N - desethyloxybutynin .
Specific Populations : Geriatric : The pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin were similar in older and younger patients .
Pediatric : The pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N - desethyloxybutynin were not evaluated in individuals younger than 18 years of age .
Gender : There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin in healthy male and female volunteers following application of OXYTROL .
Race : Available data suggest that there are no significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin based on race in healthy volunteers following administration of OXYTROL .
Japanese volunteers demonstrated a somewhat lower metabolism of oxybutynin to N - desethyloxybutynin compared to Caucasian volunteers .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility A 24 - month study in rats at dosages of oxybutynin chloride of 20 , 80 and 160 mg / kg showed no evidence of carcinogenicity .
These doses are approximately 6 , 25 and 50 times the maximum exposure in humans taking an oral dose based on body surface area .
Oxybutynin chloride showed no increase of mutagenic activity when tested in Schizosaccharomyces pompholiciformis , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , and Salmonella typhimurium test systems .
Reproduction studies with oxybutynin chloride in the mouse , rat , hamster , and rabbit showed no definite evidence of impaired fertility .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of OXYTROL were evaluated in patients with urge urinary incontinence in two controlled studies and one open - label extension .
Study 1 was a placebo controlled study , comparing the safety and efficacy of OXYTROL at dose levels of 1 . 3 , 2 . 6 , and 3 . 9 mg / day to placebo in 520 patients .
Open - label treatment was available for patients completing the study .
Study 2 was a study comparing the safety and efficacy of OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day versus active and placebo controls in 361 patients .
Study 1 was a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group study of three dose levels of OXYTROL conducted in 520 patients .
The 12 - week double - blind treatment included an OXYTROL dose of 3 . 9 mg / day or matching placebo .
An open - label , dose titration treatment extension allowed continued treatment for up to an additional 40 weeks for patients completing the double - blind period .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 91 % ) and female ( 92 % ) with a mean age of 61 years ( range , 20 to 88 years ) .
Entry criteria required that patients have urge or mixed incontinence ( with a predominance of urge ) , urge incontinence episodes of ≥ 10 per week , and ≥ 8 micturitions per day .
The patient ’ s medical history and a urinary diary during the treatment - free baseline period confirmed the diagnosis of urge incontinence .
Approximately 80 % of patients had no prior pharmacological treatment for incontinence .
Changes in weekly incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume between placebo and active treatment groups are summarized in Table 4 .
Table 4 : Mean and median change from baseline to end of treatment ( Week 12 or last observation carried forward ) in incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume in patients treated with OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day or placebo for 12 weeks ( Study 1 ) .
Parameter Placebo ( N = 127 ) Oxytrol 3 . 9 mg / day ( N = 120 ) Mean ( SD ) Median Mean ( SD ) Median Weekly Incontinence Episodes Baseline 37 . 7 ( 24 . 0 ) 30 34 . 3 ( 18 . 2 ) 31 Reduction 19 . 2 ( 21 . 4 ) 15 21 . 0 ( 17 . 1 ) 19 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 0265ß Daily Urinary Frequency Baseline 12 . 3 ( 3 . 5 ) 11 11 . 8 ( 3 . 1 ) 11 Reduction 1 . 6 ( 3 . 0 ) 1 2 . 2 ( 2 . 5 ) 2 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 0313ß Urinary Void Volume ( mL ) Baseline 175 . 9 ( 69 . 5 ) 166 . 5 171 . 6 ( 65 . 1 ) 168 Increase 10 . 5 ( 56 . 9 ) 5 . 5 31 . 6 ( 65 . 6 ) 26 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 0009à ß Comparison significant if p < 0 . 05 à Comparison significant if p ≤ 0 . 0167 Study 2 was a randomized , double - blind , study of OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day versus active and placebo controls conducted in 361 patients .
The 12 - week double - blind treatment included an OXYTROL dose of 3 . 9 mg / day , an active comparator , and placebo .
The majority of patients were Caucasian ( 95 % ) and female ( 93 % ) with a mean age of 64 years ( range , 18 to 89 years ) .
Entry criteria required that all patients have urge or mixed incontinence ( with a predominance of urge ) and had achieved a beneficial response from the anticholinergic treatment they were using at the time of study entry .
The average duration of prior pharmacological treatment was greater than 2 years .
The patient ’ s medical history and a urinary diary during the treatment - free baseline period confirmed the diagnosis of urge incontinence .
Changes in daily incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume between placebo and active treatment groups are summarized in Table 5 .
Table 5 : Mean and median change from baseline to end of treatment ( Week 12 or last observation carried forward ) in incontinence episodes , urinary frequency , and urinary void volume in patients treated with OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day or placebo for 12 weeks ( Study 2 ) .
Parameter Placebo ( N = 117 ) OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day ( N = 121 ) Mean ( SD ) Median Mean ( SD ) Median Daily Incontinence Episodes Baseline 5 . 0 ( 3 . 2 ) 4 4 . 7 ( 2 . 9 ) 4 Reduction 2 . 1 ( 3 . 0 ) 2 2 . 9 ( 3 . 0 ) 3 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 0137 £ Daily Urinary Frequency Baseline 12 . 3 ( 3 . 3 ) 12 12 . 4 ( 2 . 9 ) 12 Reduction 1 . 4 ( 2 . 7 ) 1 1 . 9 ( 2 . 7 ) 2 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 1010 £ Urinary Void Volume ( mL ) Baseline 175 . 0 ( 68 . 0 ) 171 . 0 164 . 8 ( 62 . 3 ) 160 Increase 9 . 3 ( 63 . 1 ) 5 . 5 32 . 0 ( 55 . 2 ) 24 p value vs . placebo - 0 . 0010 £ £ Comparison significant if p < 0 . 05 Adhesion Adhesion was periodically evaluated during the pivotal studies .
Of the 4 , 746 OXYTROL evaluations in the trials , 20 ( 0 . 4 % ) were observed at clinic visits to have become completely detached and 35 ( 0 . 7 % ) became partially detached during routine clinic use .
Similar to the pharmacokinetic studies , > 98 % of the systems evaluated in the pivotal studies were assessed as being ≥ 75 % attached and thus would be expected to perform as anticipated .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING How Supplied Unit Dose : Heat sealed pouch containing 1 OXYTROL ( oxybutynin transdermal system ) .
Each 39 cm2 system imprinted with “ OXYTROL 3 . 9 mg / day ” contains 36 mg of oxybutynin for nominal delivery of 3 . 9 mg oxybutynin per day when dosed in a twice weekly regimen .
NDC 0023 - 6153 - 08 Patient Calendar Box of 8 Systems Storage Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP controlled room temperature . ]
Protect from moisture and humidity .
Do not store outside the sealed pouch .
Apply immediately after removal from the protective pouch .
Discard used OXYTROL in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by children , pets , or others .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - Approved Patient Labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Instructions for Use Inform patients that OXYTROL should be applied to dry , intact skin on the abdomen , hip , or buttock and not be applied to areas that have been treated with oils , lotions or powders .
The patch should not be exposed to sunlight .
Contact with water while bathing , swimming , showering or exercising will not change the effect of OXYTROL .
A new application site should be selected with each new system to avoid re - application to the same site within 7 days .
Inform patients to try to change the patch on the same 2 days each week and that the package of OXYTROL has a calendar checklist printed on the back to remind patients of their schedule .
Inform patients to avoid rubbing the patch area during bathing , swimming , showering or exercising .
Inform patients that details on use of the system are explained in the Patient Information Leaflet .
Inform patients to discard used OXYTROL in household trash in a manner that prevents accidental application or ingestion by children , pets , or others .
Inform patients to keep out of reach of children .
Important Anticholinergic Adverse Reactions Patients should be informed that anticholinergic ( antimuscarinic ) agents , such as OXYTROL , may produce adverse reactions related to anticholinergic pharmacological activity including : • Urinary retention and constipation .
• Heat prostration ( due to decreased sweating ) when anticholinergics such as OXYTROL are used in a hot environment .
• Dizziness or blurred vision .
Patients should be advised to avoid driving or operating heavy machinery until OXYTROL ’ s effects have been determined .
• Drowsiness that may be worsened by alcohol .
• Angioedema has been reported with oral oxybutynin use .
Patients should be advised to promptly discontinue OXYTROL and seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms consistent with angioedema .
Distributed By : Allergan USA , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 © 2017 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Oxytrol ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC FDA - approved patient labeling PATIENT INFORMATION OXYTROL ( OKSEE TROLE ) ( oxybutynin transdermal system ) Read this Patient Information before you start taking OXYTROL and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is OXYTROL ?
OXYTROL is a transdermal system ( skin patch ) for the treatment of overactive bladder in men with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence , urgency , and frequency .
It delivers the active ingredient , oxybutynin , directly into your bloodstream through your skin .
Overactive bladder makes it hard to urinate ( passing water ) .
Overactive bladder can make you urinate more often ( increased frequency ) or make you feel the need to urinate often ( urgency ) .
Overactive bladder can also lead to accidental urine loss ( leaking or wetting oneself ) .
The active ingredient in OXYTROL , oxybutynin , is dissolved in the thin layer of adhesive that sticks the patch to your skin .
OXYTROL delivers the medicine slowly and constantly through your skin and into your bloodstream for the 3 or 4 days that you wear the patch .
OXYTROL contains the same active ingredient as oxybutynin tablets and syrup .
It is not known if OXYTROL is safe and effective in children .
Who should not use OXYTROL ?
Do not use OXYTROL if you have the following medical conditions : • Urinary retention .
Your bladder does not empty or does not empty completely when you urinate .
• Gastric retention .
Your stomach empties slowly or incompletely after a meal .
• Uncontrolled narrow - angle glaucoma ( high pressure in your eye ) .
Tell your doctor if you have glaucoma or a family history of glaucoma .
• Allergy to oxybutynin or the inactive ingredients in OXYTROL .
If you are allergic to oxybutynin or any of the ingredients in OXYTROL .
See the end of this leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in OXYTROL .
If you have allergies to medical tape products or other skin patches , tell your doctor .
What should I tell my doctor before using OXYTROL ?
Before you take OXYTROL , tell your doctor if you : • have liver problems • have kidney problems • have problems emptying your bladder completely • have a gastrointestinal obstruction ( blockage in the digestive system ) • have ulcerative colitis ( inflamed bowels ) • have gastric reflux disease or esophagitis ( inflamed esophagus , the tube between your mouth and stomach ) • have Myasthenia Gravis ( generalized muscle weakness ) • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if OXYTROL will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if OXYTROL passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take OXYTROL or breastfeed .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines and herbal supplements .
Using OXYTROL with certain other medicines may affect each other .
Using OXYTROL with other medicines can cause serious side effects .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • medicines called “ bisphosphonates ” to treat osteoporosis • medicines called “ anticholinergics ” Ask your doctor or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure if this is your medicine .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I use OXYTROL ?
• Read the Instructions for Use at the end of this Patient Information Leaflet for information on the right way to use OXYTROL .
• Use OXYTROL exactly as your doctor tells you to use it .
• Put on a new patch of OXYTROL 2 times a week ( every 3 to 4 days ) according to your doctor ’ s instructions .
• Choose a new skin site for each new patch application .
You should not use the same skin site within 7 days .
• Wear the patch all the time until it is time to apply a new one .
• Wear only 1 patch of OXYTROL at a time .
• Try to change the patch on the same 2 days each week .
• Your package of OXYTROL has a calendar checklist printed on the back to help you remember your schedule .
Mark the schedule you plan to follow .
Always change OXYTROL on the 2 days of the week you mark on the calendar .
• Contact with water when you are bathing , swimming , showering or exercising will not change the way that OXYTROL works .
What should I avoid while using OXYTROL ?
• You should not drink alcohol while using OXYTROL .
It can increase your chance of getting serious side effects .
• OXYTROL can cause dizziness or blurred vision .
Do not drive or operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how OXYTROL affects you .
• Do not put OXYTROL on areas that have been treated with oils , lotions , or powders that could keep the patch from sticking well to your skin .
Do not expose the patch to sunlight .
Wear your patch under clothing .
• Avoid rubbing the patch area during bathing , swimming , showering or exercising .
What are the possible side effects of OXYTROL ?
OXYTROL may cause serious side effects , including : • inability to empty your bladder ( urinary retention ) .
OXYTROL may increase your chances of not being able to empty your bladder if you have bladder outlet obstruction .
Tell your doctor right away if you are unable to empty your bladder .
• increased risk of stomach problems in certain patients .
OXYTROL may cause stomach problems in patients who have a history of ulcerative colitis , intestinal atony , gastrointestinal reflux , or who are taking certain medicines called bisphosphonates .
• central nervous system effects .
OXYTROL can cause central nervous system effects including headache , dizziness , and sleepiness .
Your doctor should monitor you for these effects after starting OXYTROL .
See “ What should I avoid while using OXYTROL . ”
• swelling ( angioedema ) .
The active ingredient in OXYTROL , oxybutynin , can cause swelling around the eyes , lips , genitals , hands or feet .
Some people who have taken oxybutynin medicines by mouth have had to be hospitalized .
Stop using OXYTROL immediately and seek emergency treatment right away if you have any of these symptoms .
• skin hypersensitivity .
You may have skin changes where the patch was placed such as itching , rash , or redness .
Tell your doctor if these changes do not go away or bother you .
• worsening of myasthenia gravis .
OXYTROL can make symptoms worse in people who have myasthenia gravis .
See “ What should I tell my doctor before using OXYTROL ? ”
The most common side effects of OXYTROL include skin reactions where the patch is placed and dry mouth .
Since oxybutynin treatment may decrease sweating , you may overheat or have fever or heat stroke if you are in warm or hot temperatures .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away or if you have constipation .
These are not all the side effects of OXYTROL .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store OXYTROL ?
• Store OXYTROL at 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Do not store OXYTROL outside the sealed pouch .
• Keep OXYTROL patches in a dry place .
Keep OXYTROL and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of OXYTROL .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information Leaflet .
Do not use OXYTROL for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give OXYTROL to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information Leaflet summarizes the most important information about OXYTROL .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your doctor or pharmacist for information about OXYTROL that is written for health professionals .
For more information , go to www . OXYTROL . com website or call 1 - 800 - 678 - 1605 .
What are the ingredients of OXYTROL ?
Active Ingredient : oxybutynin Inactive Ingredients : Flexible polyester / ethylene - vinyl acetate film , acrylic adhesive , triacetin , siliconized polyester film .
Instructions for Use OXYTROL ( OKSEE TROLE ) ( oxybutynin transdermal system ) Read this Instructions for Use that comes with your OXYTROL before you start using it and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
Where to apply OXYTROL : • Put the patch on a clean , dry , and smooth ( fold - free ) area of skin on your abdomen ( stomach area ) , hips or buttocks .
See Figure A . • Avoid your waistline area , since tight clothing may rub against the patch .
• The areas you choose should not be oily , damaged ( cut or scraped ) , irritated ( rashes ) or have any other skin problems .
• Do not put OXYTROL on areas that have been treated with oils , lotions , or powders that could keep the patch from sticking well to your skin .
• When you put on a new patch , use a different area of skin from the most recent patch site .
You may find it useful to change the site from one side of your body to the other .
• Do not use the same area for the patch for at least 1 week .
You may choose to try different sites when using OXYTROL to find the sites that are most comfortable for you and where clothing will not rub against it .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to apply OXYTROL : Step 1 .
• Each patch is sealed in its own protective pouch .
See Figure B . • When you are ready to put on your OXYTROL patch , tear open the pouch and remove the patch .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 2 .
• The sticky adhesive side of the patch is covered by 2 strips of overlapping protective liner .
See Figure D . • Remove the first piece of the protective liner and place the patch , adhesive face down , firmly onto the skin .
See Figure E . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 3 .
• Bend the patch in half and gently roll the remaining part onto your skin using the tips of your fingers .
As you roll the patch in place , the second piece of the protective liner should come off the patch .
See Figure F . • Apply firm pressure over the surface of the patch with your fingers to make sure the patch stays on .
See Figure G . • When putting on the patch , avoid touching the sticky adhesive side .
• Touching the adhesive may cause the patch to fall off early .
• Throw away the protective liners .
• If the patch partly or completely falls off , press it back in place and continue to follow your application schedule .
• If the patch does not stay on , throw it away .
Put on a new patch on a different area of skin , and continue to follow your original application schedule .
• If you forget to change your patch after 3 or 4 days , remove the old patch , put on a new patch in a different area of skin and continue to follow your original application schedule .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] How to remove OXYTROL : • When changing your OXYTROL patch , remove the old patch slowly and carefully to avoid damaging your skin .
• After the old patch is removed , fold it in half with the sticky sides together .
• The patch will still contain some oxybutynin , throw the patch away so that it cannot be worn or swallowed by another person , child , or pet .
• Gently wash the application site with warm water and a mild soap to remove any adhesive that stays on your skin after removing the patch .
• A small amount of baby oil may also be used to remove any adhesive remaining on your skin .
Rings of adhesive that become dirty may require a medical adhesive removal pad that you can get from your pharmacist .
• Alcohol or other dissolving liquids ( nail polish remover or other solvents ) may cause skin irritation and should not be used .
This Patient Package Insert and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Distributed By : Allergan USA , Inc .
Irvine , CA 92612 © 2017 Allergan .
All rights reserved .
Oxytrol ® is a registered trademark of Allergan Sales , LLC [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL OXYTROL ® ( oxybutynin transdermal system ) NDC 0023 - 6153 - 08 3 . 9 mg / day Contains 8 transdermal systems [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
