Active ingredients ( in each 5 mL ) Dextromethorphan HBr 5 mg Guaifenesin 100 mg Phenylephrine HCl 2 . 5 mg Purpose Cough suppressant Expectorant Nasal decongestant Uses • helps loosen phlegm ( mucus ) and thin bronchial secretions to rid the bronchial passageways of bothersome mucus and make coughs more productive • temporarily relieves : • cough due to minor throat and bronchial irritation as may occur with the common cold or inhaled irritants • stuffy nose • nasal congestion due to a cold • the intensity of coughing • the impulse to cough to help the child get to sleep Warnings Do not use in a child who is taking a prescription monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) ( certain drugs for depression , psychiatric , or emotional conditions , or Parkinson ’ s disease ) , or for 2 weeks after stopping the MAOI drug .
If you do not know if your child ’ s prescription drug contains an MAOI , ask a doctor or pharmacist before giving this product .
Ask a doctor before use if the child has • diabetes • heart disease • thyroid disease • high blood pressure • persistent or chronic cough such as occurs with asthma • cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not exceed recommended dosage .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • nervousness , dizziness , or sleeplessness occur • symptoms do not get better within 7 days or occur with fever • cough persists more than 7 days , tends to recur , or is accompanied by a fever , rash , or persistent headache .
These could be signs of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • do not take more than directed • do not take more than 6 doses in any 24 - hour period • mL = milliliter ; FL OZ = fluid ounce • only use the dose cup provided • dose as follows or as directed by a doctor Age Dose children 6 years to under 12 years 10 mL every 4 hours children 4 years to under 6 years 5 mL every 4 hours children under 4 years do not use Other information • store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) • see end flap for expiration date and lot number Inactive ingredients anhydrous citric acid , FD & C red # 40 , flavors , glycerin , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium benzoate , sodium citrate dihydrate , sorbitol , sucralose , xanthan gum Questions or comments ?
1 - 800 - 426 - 9391 Principal display panel ♥ CVS Health ™ Compare to the active ingredients in Children ’ s Mucinex ® Congestion & Cough * Children ' s Congestion & Cough DEXTROMETHORPHAN HBr Cough suppressant GUAIFENESIN Expectorant PHENYLEPHRINE HCl Nasal decongestant Relieves : • Chest congestion • Stuffy nose • Cough Breaks up mucus For Ages 4 to 11 Years Berry Flavor Dosage cup included Actual Bottle Size on Side Panel 6 . 8 FL OZ ( 201 mL ) TAMPER EVIDENT : DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED SAFETY SEAL UNDER CAP IS BROKEN OR MISSING PARENTS : Learn about teen medicine abuse www . StopMedicineAbuse . org Distributed by : CVS Pharmacy , Inc .
One CVS Drive , Woonsocket , RI 02895 © 2022 CVS / pharmacy CVS . com ® 1 - 800 - SHOP CVS V - 19849 CVS ® Quality Money Back Guarantee * This product is not manufactured or distributed by RB Health ( US ) LLC , owner of the registered trademark Children ’ s Mucinex ® Congestion & Cough .
50844 REV1021A05688 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
