warning Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious consequences Active ingredient Camphor 6 . 2 % Purpose Cough suppressant Use temporarily relieves cough associated with a cold Warnings For external use only For steam inhalation only .
Do not take by mouth .
Flammable keep away from fire or flame Ask a doctor before use • a persistent or chronic cough sucha as occurs with smoking , emphysema or asthma • a cough that occurs with too much phlegm ( mucus ) When using this product do not • heat • microwave • use near an open flame • take by mouth • direct steam from the vaporizer too close to the face • add to hot water or any container where heating water except when adding to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer .
May cause splattering and result in burns .
Stop use cough lasts more than 7 days , comes back , or occurs with fever , rash , or headache that lasts .
these could be signs of a serious condition Keep out of reach of children In case of eye exposure , flush with water .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • see important warnings under " When using this product " • adults & children 2 years of age and older : use 1 tablespoon of solution for each quart of water or 1 1 / 2 teaspoons of solution for each pint of water • add solution directlty to cold water only in a hot steam vaporizer • follow manufacture ' s directins for using vaporizer • breathe in medicated vapors • may be repeated up to 3 times a day • children under 2 years : ask a doctor other information • close container tightly and store at room temperature away from heat Inactive ingredients alcohol 82 % , dimethicone , eucalyptus globulus leaf oil , laureth - 7 , menthol , Myristica fragrans ( nutmeg ) kernel oil , poloxamer 124 , Thuja occidentalis leaf oil ( cedar leaf oil ) Questions or comments ?
Questions or comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 Side panel claims Compare to Vicks Vapo Steam active ingredient H - E - B MEDICATED VAPORIZING STEAM LIQUID Cough Suppressant Contans Camphor • Relives Couth to Help You Rest Do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or missing CAUTION : NOT FOR INTERNAL USE Disclaimer This product is not manufactured or distributed by Procter & Gamble , owner of the registered trademark Vicks Vapo Steam .
Adverse Reactions Section Made with Pride & Care for H E B San Antinio , TX 78204 principal display panel Compare to Vicks Vapro Steam active ingredient H - E - B MEDICATED VAPORIING STEAM LIQUID Cough Suppressant Contains Camphor Relieves Cough to Help You Rest Do not use if printed seal under cap is broken or mssing .
CAUTION : NOT FOR INTERNAL USE 8 FL OZ ( 237 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
