DESCRIPTION Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen is supplied in tablet form for oral administration .
Hydrocodone bitartrate is an opioid analgesic and antitussive and occurs as fine , white crystals or as a crystalline powder .
It is affected by light .
The chemical name is 4 , 5α - epoxy - 3 - methoxy - 17 - methylmorphinan - 6 - one tartrate ( 1 : 1 ) hydrate ( 2 : 5 ) .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Acetaminophen , 4 ' - hydroxyacetanilide , a slightly bitter , white , odorless , crystalline powder , is a non - opiate , non - salicylate analgesic and antipyretic .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP 7 . 5 mg / 325 mgEach tablet contains : Hydrocodone Bitartrate ............. 7 . 5 mg Acetaminophen ......................... 325 mg In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : croscarmellose sodium , FD and C Red No . 40 aluminum lake , FD and C Yellow No . 6 aluminum lake , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium lauryl sulfate , and stearic acid .
Meets USP Dissolution Test 2 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple actions qualitatively similar to those of codeine .
Most of these involve the central nervous system and smooth muscle .
The precise mechanism of action of hydrocodone and other opiates is not known , although it is believed to relate to the existence of opiate receptors in the central nervous system .
In addition to analgesia , narcotics may produce drowsiness , changes in mood and mental clouding .
The analgesic action of acetaminophen involves peripheral influences , but the specific mechanism is as yet undetermined .
Antipyretic activity is mediated through hypothalamic heat regulating centers .
Acetaminophen inhibits prostaglandin synthetase .
Therapeutic doses of acetaminophen have negligible effects on the cardiovascular or respiratory systems ; however , toxic doses may cause circulatory failure and rapid , shallow breathing .
Pharmacokinetics : The behavior of the individual components is described below .
Hydrocodone : Following a 10 mg oral dose of hydrocodone administered to five adult male subjects , the mean peak concentration was 23 . 6 ± 5 . 2 ng / mL .
Maximum serum levels were achieved at 1 . 3 ± 0 . 3 hours and the half - life was determined to be 3 . 8 ± 0 . 3 hours .
Hydrocodone exhibits a complex pattern of metabolism including O - demethylation , N - demethylation and 6 - ketoreduction to the corresponding 6 - α - and 6 - β - hydroxymetabolites .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
Acetaminophen : Acetaminophen is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and is distributed throughout most body tissues .
The plasma half - life is 1 . 25 to 3 hours , but may be increased by liver damage and following overdosage .
Elimination of acetaminophen is principally by liver metabolism ( conjugation ) and subsequent renal excretion of metabolites .
Approximately 85 % of an oral dose appears in the urine within 24 hours of administration , most as the glucuronide conjugate , with small amounts of other conjugates and unchanged drug .
See OVERDOSAGE for toxicity information .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of moderate to moderately severe pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product should not be administered to patients who have previously exhibited hypersensitivity to hydrocodone or acetaminophen .
Patients known to be hypersensitive to other opioids may exhibit cross - sensitivity to hydrocodone .
WARNINGS Respiratory Depression : At high doses or in sensitive patients , hydrocodone may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem respiratory center .
Hydrocodone also affects the center that controls respiratory rhythm , and may produce irregular and periodic breathing .
Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure : The respiratory depressant effects of narcotics and their capacity to elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions or a preexisting increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , narcotics produce adverse reactions which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
Acute Abdominal Conditions : The administration of narcotics may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions .
Misuse , Abuse , and Diversion of Opioids : Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets contain hydrocodone , an opioid agonist , and is a Schedule III controlled substance .
Opioid agonists have the potential for being abused and are sought by abusers and people with addiction disorders , and are subject to diversion .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists , legal or illicit .
This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets in situations where the physician or pharmacist is concerned about an increased risk of misuse , abuse or diversion ( see DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE ) .
PRECAUTIONS General : Special Risk Patients : As with any narcotic analgesic agent , hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used with caution in elderly or debilitated patients , and those with severe impairment of hepatic or renal function , hypothyroidism , Addison ' s disease , prostatic hypertrophy or urethral stricture .
The usual precautions should be observed and the possibility of respiratory depression should be kept in mind .
Cough Reflex : Hydrocodone suppresses the cough reflex ; as with all narcotics , caution should be exercised when hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets are used postoperatively and in patients with pulmonary disease .
Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets 7 . 5 mg / 500 mg contain FD and C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) which may cause allergic - type reactions ( including bronchial asthma ) in certain susceptible persons .
Although the overall incidence of FD and C Yellow No . 5 ( tartrazine ) sensitivity in the general population is low , it is frequently seen in patients who also have aspirin hypersensitivity .
Information for Patients : Enter section text here Information for Patients : Hydrocodone , like all narcotics , may impair the mental and / or physical abilities required for the performance of potentially hazardous tasks such as driving a car or operating machinery ; patients should be cautioned accordingly .
Alcohol and other CNS depressants may produce an additive CNS depression , when taken with this combination product , and should be avoided .
Hydrocodone may be habit - forming .
Patients should take the drug only for as long as it is prescribed , in the amounts prescribed , and no more frequently than prescribed .
Laboratory Tests : In patients with severe hepatic or renal disease , effects of therapy should be monitored with serial liver and / or renal function tests .
Drug Interactions : Patients receiving other narcotic analgesics , antihistamines , antipsychotics , antianxiety agents , or other CNS depressants ( including alcohol ) concomitantly with hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may exhibit an additive CNS depression .
When combined therapy is contemplated , the dose of one or both agents should be reduced .
The use of MAO inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants with hydrocodone preparations may increase the effect of either the antidepressant or hydrocodone .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Acetaminophen may produce false - positive test results for urinary 5 - hydroxyindoleacetic acid .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : No adequate studies have been conducted in animals to determine whether hydrocodone or acetaminophen have a potential for carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , or impairment of fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Babies born to mothers who have been taking opioids regularly prior to delivery will be physically dependent .
The withdrawal signs include irritability and excessive crying , tremors , hyperactive reflexes , increased respiratory rate , increased stools , sneezing , yawning , vomiting , and fever .
The intensity of the syndrome does not always correlate with the duration of maternal opioid use or dose .
There is no consensus on the best method of managing withdrawal .
Labor and Delivery : As with all narcotics , administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets to the mother shortly before delivery may result in some degree of respiratory depression in the newborn , especially if higher doses are used .
Nursing Mothers : Acetaminophen is excreted in breast milk in small amounts , but the significance of its effects on nursing infants is not known .
It is not known whether hydrocodone is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from hydrocodone and acetaminophen , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Hydrocodone and the major metabolites of acetaminophen are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney .
Thus the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function due to the accumulation of the parent compound and / or metabolites in the plasma .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Hydrocodone may cause confusion and over - sedation in the elderly ; elderly patients generally should be started on low doses of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets and observed closely .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The most frequently reported adverse reactions are lightheadedness , dizziness , sedation , nausea and vomiting .
These effects seem to be more prominent in ambulatory than in nonambulatory patients , and some of these adverse reactions may be alleviated if the patient lies down .
Other adverse reactions include : Central Nervous System : Drowsiness , mental clouding , lethargy , impairment of mental and physical performance , anxiety , fear , dysphoria , psychic dependence , mood changes .
Gastrointestinal System : Prolonged administration of hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets may produce constipation .
Genitourinary System : Ureteral spasm , spasm of vesical sphincters and urinary retention have been reported with opiates .
Respiratory Depression : Hydrocodone bitartrate may produce dose - related respiratory depression by acting directly on the brain stem respiratory centers ( see OVERDOSAGE ) .
Special Senses : Cases of hearing impairment or permanent loss have been reported predominantly in patients with chronic overdose .
Dermatological : Skin rash , pruritus .
The following adverse drug events may be borne in mind as potential effects of acetaminophen : allergic reactions , rash , thrombocytopenia , agranulocytosis .
Potential effects of high dosage are listed in the OVERDOSAGE section .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Misuse , Abuse , and Diversion of Opioids : Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets contain hydrocodone , an opioid agonist , and is a Schedule III controlled substance .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets , and other opioids , used in analgesia can be abused and are subject to criminal diversion .
Addiction is a primary , chronic , neurobiologic disease , with genetic , psychosocial , and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations .
It is characterized by behaviors that include one or more of the following : impaired control over drug use , compulsive use , continued use despite harm , and craving .
Drug addiction is a treatable disease utilizing a multidisciplinary approach , but relapse is common .
" Drug seeking " behavior is very common in addicts and drug abusers .
Drug - seeking tactics include emergency calls or visits near the end of office hours , refusal to undergo appropriate examination , testing or referral , repeated " loss " of prescriptions , tampering with prescriptions and reluctance to provide prior medical records or contact information for other treating physician ( s ) .
" Doctor shopping " to obtain additional prescriptions is common among drug abusers and people suffering from untreated addiction .
Abuse and addiction are separate and distinct from physical dependence and tolerance .
Physical dependence usually assumes clinically significant dimensions only after several weeks of continued opioid use , although a mild degree of physical dependence may develop after a few days of opioid therapy .
Tolerance , in which increasingly large doses are required in order to produce the same degree of analgesia , is manifested initially by a shortened duration of analgesic effect , and subsequently by decreases in the intensity of analgesia .
The rate of development of tolerance varies among patients .
Physicians should be aware that abuse of opioids can occur in the absence of true addiction and is characterized by misuse for non - medical purposes , often in combination with other psychoactive substances .
Hydrocodone bitartrate and acetaminophen tablets , like other opioids , may be diverted for non - medical use .
Record - keeping of prescribing information , including quantity , frequency , and renewal requests is strongly advised .
Proper assessment of the patient , proper prescribing practices , periodic re - evaluation of therapy , and proper dispensing and storage are appropriate measures that help to limit abuse of opioid drugs .
OVERDOSAGE Following an acute overdosage , toxicity may result from hydrocodone or acetaminophen .
Signs and Symptoms : Hydrocodone : Serious overdose with hydrocodone is characterized by respiratory depression ( a decrease in respiratory rate and / or tidal volume , Cheyne - Stokes respiration , cyanosis ) , extreme somnolence progressing to stupor or coma , skeletal muscle flaccidity , cold and clammy skin , and sometimes bradycardia and hypotension .
In severe overdosage , apnea , circulatory collapse , cardiac arrest and death may occur .
Acetaminophen : In acetaminophen overdosage : dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may also occur .
Early symptoms following a potentially hepatotoxic overdose may include : nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis and general malaise .
Clinical and laboratory evidence of hepatic toxicity may not be apparent until 48 to 72 hours post - ingestion .
In adults , hepatic toxicity has rarely been reported with acute overdoses of less than 10 grams , or fatalities with less than 15 grams .
Treatment : A single or multiple overdose with hydrocodone and acetaminophen is a potentially lethal polydrug overdose , and consultation with a regional poison control center is recommended .
Immediate treatment includes support of cardiorespiratory function and measures to reduce drug absorption .
Vomiting should be induced mechanically , or with syrup of ipecac , if the patient is alert ( adequate pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes ) .
Oral activated charcoal ( 1 g / kg ) should follow gastric emptying .
The first dose should be accompanied by an appropriate cathartic .
If repeated doses are used , the cathartic might be included with alternate doses as required .
Hypotension is usually hypovolemic and should respond to fluids .
Vasopressors and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
A cuffed endotracheal tube should be inserted before gastric lavage of the unconscious patient and , when necessary , to provide assisted respiration .
Meticulous attention should be given to maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation .
In severe cases of intoxication , peritoneal dialysis , or preferably hemodialysis may be considered .
If hypoprothrombinemia occurs due to acetaminophen overdose , vitamin K should be administered intravenously .
Naloxone , a narcotic antagonist , can reverse respiratory depression and coma associated with opioid overdose .
Naloxone hydrochloride 0 . 4 mg to 2 mg is given parenterally .
Since the duration of action of hydrocodone may exceed that of the naloxone , the patient should be kept under continuous surveillance and repeated doses of the antagonist should be administered as needed to maintain adequate respiration .
A narcotic antagonist should not be administered in the absence of clinically significant respiratory or cardiovascular depression .
If the dose of acetaminophen may have exceeded 140 mg / kg , acetylcysteine should be administered as early as possible .
Serum acetaminophen levels should be obtained , since levels four or more hours following ingestion help predict acetaminophen toxicity .
Do not await acetaminophen assay results before initiating treatment .
Hepatic enzymes should be obtained initially , and repeated at 24 - hour intervals .
Methemoglobinemia over 30 % should be treated with methylene blue by slow intravenous administration .
The toxic dose for adults for acetaminophen is 10 g . DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosage should be adjusted according to the severity of the pain and the response of the patient .
However , it should be kept in mind that tolerance to hydrocodone can develop with continued use and that the incidence of untoward effects is dose related .
Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP 7 . 5 mg / 325 mgThe usual adult dosage is one tablet every four to six hours as needed for pain .
The total daily dosage should not exceed 6 tablets .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrocodone Bitartrate and Acetaminophen Tablets , USP 7 . 5 mg / 325 mgare supplied as light orange , oval - shaped , scored tablets , debossed “ 3605 ” on one side and debossed “ V ” on the reverse side .
The tablets are supplied in containers of 10 , 100 , 500 and 1000 .
500 and 1000 .
Storage : Store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF with a child - resistant closure .
A Schedule CIII Narcotic .
copy of label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
