WARNING : HYPONATREMIA NOCDURNA can cause hyponatremia .
Severe hyponatremia can be life - threatening , leading to seizures , coma , respiratory arrest , or death [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients at increased risk of severe hyponatremia , such as patients with excessive fluid intake , illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalances , and in those using loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Ensure the serum sodium concentration is normal before starting or resuming NOCDURNA .
Measure serum sodium within 7 days and approximately 1 month after initiating therapy , and periodically during treatment .
More frequently monitor serum sodium in patients 65 years of age and older and in patients at increased risk of hyponatremia .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
If hyponatremia occurs , NOCDURNA may need to be temporarily or permanently discontinued [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : HYPONATREMIA See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• NOCDURNA can cause hyponatremia , which may be life - threatening if severe ( 5 . 1 ) • NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients at increased risk of severe hyponatremia , such as patients with excessive fluid intake , illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalances , and in those using loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids .
( 4 , 5 . 1 ) • Ensure serum sodium concentration is normal before starting or resuming NOCDURNA .
Measure serum sodium within 1 week and approximately 1 month after initiating therapy and periodically during treatment .
More frequently monitor serum sodium in patients 65 years of age and older and in patients at increased risk of hyponatremia ( 2 . 2 , 5 . 1 ) • If hyponatremia occurs , NOCDURNA may need to be temporarily or permanently discontinued ( 5 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE NOCDURNA is indicated for the treatment of nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in adults who awaken at least 2 times per night to void .
In the NOCDURNA clinical trials nocturnal polyuria was defined as night - time urine production exceeding one - third of the 24 - hour urine production .
Before starting NOCDURNA : • Evaluate the patient for possible causes for the nocturia , including excessive fluid intake prior to bedtime , and address other treatable causes of nocturia .
• Confirm the diagnosis of nocturnal polyuria with a 24 - hour urine collection , if one has not been obtained previously .
NOCDURNA is a vasopressin analog indicated for the treatment of nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in adults who awaken at least 2 times per night to void .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Dosing Information ( 2 . 1 ) : • Women : 27 . 7 mcg daily , one hour before bedtime , administered sublingually without water • Men : 55 . 3 mcg daily , one hour before bedtime , administered sublingually without water 2 . 1 Dosing Recommendations Before starting or resuming NOCDURNA assess the sodium concentration and only start or resume NOCDURNA in patients with a normal serum sodium concentration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
The recommended NOCDURNA dosage in : • Women is 27 . 7 mcg once daily , one hour before bedtime , administered sublingually without water .
• Men is 55 . 3 mcg once daily , one hour before bedtime , administered sublingually without water .
Keep the tablet under the tongue until it has fully dissolved .
The recommended dose for women is lower than for men because women are more sensitive to the effects of NOCDURNA and had a higher risk of hyponatremia with the 55 . 3 mcg dose in clinical trials .
Instruct patients to empty their bladder immediately before bedtime .
Limit fluid intake to a minimum from 1 hour before until 8 hours after administration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Patient Counseling Information ( 17 ) ] .
2 . 2 Sodium Monitoring Ensure serum sodium concentration is normal prior to initiating or resuming NOCDURNA .
NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients with hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Check the serum sodium concentration within the first week and again at one month after initiating or resuming therapy .
Periodically monitor serum sodium during NOCDURNA therapy , as clinically appropriate .
More frequent serum sodium monitoring is recommended for patients 65 years and older and for those at risk of hyponatremia .
If the patient develops hyponatremia , NOCDURNA may need to be temporarily or permanently discontinued , and treatment for the hyponatremia instituted , depending on the clinical circumstances , including the duration and severity of the hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Sublingual tablets : • 27 . 7 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 25 mcg of desmopressin ) : White , round , with 25 on one side .
• 55 . 3 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of desmopressin ) : White , round with 50 on one side .
Sublingual Tablets : 27 . 7 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 25 mcg of desmopressin ) and 55 . 3 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of desmopressin ) ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions due to an increased risk of hyponatremia : • Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Polydipsia • Concomitant use with loop diuretics [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • Concomitant use with systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) , Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] • Renal impairment with estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) below 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Use in Specific Population ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
• Known or suspected syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( SIADH ) secretion .
• During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance , such as gastroenteritis , salt - wasting nephropathies , or systemic infection NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients with the following conditions because fluid retention increases the risk of worsening the underlying condition : • Heart failure [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Uncontrolled hypertension • Hyponatremia or a history of hyponatremia ( 4 ) • Polydipsia ( 4 ) • Concomitant use with loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids ( 4 ) • Estimated glomerular filtration rate below 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( 4 ) • Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion ( SIADH ) ( 4 ) • During illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 4 ) • Heart failure ( 4 ) • Uncontrolled hypertension ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Limit fluid intake to a minimum from 1 hour before until 8 hours after administration .
Treatment without concomitant reduction of fluid intake may lead to fluid retention and hyponatremia ( 5 . 1 ) • Fluid retention : Not recommended in patients at risk of increased intracranial pressure or history of urinary retention .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Hyponatremia NOCDURNA can cause hyponatremia [ see Boxed Warning and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Severe hyponatremia can be life - threatening if it is not promptly diagnosed and treated , leading to seizures , coma , respiratory arrest , or death .
NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients at increased risk of severe hyponatremia , such as those with excessive fluid intake , those who have illnesses that can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalances , and in those using loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Prior to starting or resuming NOCDURNA , ensure that the serum sodium concentration is normal .
Limit fluid intake to a minimum from 1 hour before administration until 8 hours after administration .
Use of NOCDURNA without concomitant reduction of fluid intake may lead to fluid retention and hyponatremia .
Advise patients to avoid drinks containing caffeine or alcohol before bedtime .
Monitor the serum sodium concentration within 1 week and approximately 1 month of initiating NOCDURNA , and periodically thereafter .
The frequency of serum sodium monitoring should be based on the patient ' s risk for hyponatremia .
The incidence of hyponatremia was higher in patients 65 years of age or older compared to younger patients .
More frequent monitoring is recommended for patients 65 years of age or older or those on concomitant medications that can increase the risk of hyponatremia , such as tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , chlorpromazine , opiate analgesics , carbamazepine , lamotrigine , thiazide diuretics and chlorpropamide [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
If hyponatremia occurs , NOCDURNA may need to be temporarily or permanently discontinued and treatment for the hyponatremia instituted , depending on the clinical circumstances , including the duration and severity of the hyponatremia .
Women are more sensitive to the effects of NOCDURNA compared to men [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 2 ) ] .
The recommended dose for women is lower than for men because women had a higher risk of hyponatremia with the 55 . 3 mcg dose in clinical trials .
5 . 2 Fluid Retention NOCDURNA can cause fluid retention , which can worsen underlying conditions that are susceptible to volume status .
Therefore , NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients with heart failure or uncontrolled hypertension [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
In addition , NOCDURNA is not recommended in patients at risk for increased intracranial pressure or those with a history of urinary retention .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction is described elsewhere in the labeling : • Hyponatremia [ see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] Common adverse reactions ( > 2 % incidence ) included dry mouth , hyponatremia or blood sodium decreased , and dizziness .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Ferring at 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse event rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The safety database includes three double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter , randomized trials of NOCDURNA and one open - label extension trial .
Study 1 ( CS40 ) ( NCT01262456 ) enrolled only women , Study 2 ( CS41 ) ( NCT01223937 ) enrolled only men , Study 3 ( CS29 ) ( NCT00477490 ) enrolled men and women and Study 4 ( CS31 ) ( NCT00615836 ) was an extension of Study 3 for up to 3 years [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
At baseline , 196 women treated with NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg / day , 173 women given placebo , 195 men treated with NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg / day , and 213 men given placebo had nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria , with at least 2 nocturnal voids per night .
The mean age of women treated with NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg was 59 years and 42 % of women were aged 65 and older .
The mean age of men treated with NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg was 62 years and 50 % of men were aged 65 and older .
Caucasians comprised 81 % , Blacks 17 % , and Asians 1 % of the nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria population , and 12 % were Hispanic .
Concomitant use of anti - muscarinic medications , alpha - blockers , and alpha - reductase inhibitors was permitted for patients on a stable dose prior to study entry .
Serious adverse reactions included 2 reports of hyponatremia in men treated with NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg .
These 2 reports occurred in a trial in which all cases of serum sodium ≤ 125 mmol / L were reported as serious adverse reactions .
Adverse Reactions Leading to Discontinuation Among women with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria , the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 3 % for those treated with NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg and 2 % for those in the placebo group .
Among men with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria , the discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was 4 % for those treated with NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg and 3 % in the placebo group .
Table 1 displays the most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in patients with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria .
Table 1 : Most Common Adverse Reactions ( ≥ 2 Incidences ) Leading to Discontinuation in Patients With Nocturia Due to Nocturnal Polyuria ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) [ 1 ] Women Men Adverse Reactions Placebo ( N = 173 ) NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg ( N = 196 ) Placebo ( N = 213 ) NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg ( N = 195 ) Hyponatremia or blood sodium decreased 1 ( < 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 4 ( 2 . 1 % ) [ 1 ] Includes adverse reactions occurring during up to 3 months of treatment in patients who continued from Study 3 into Study 4 Most Common Adverse Reactions Table 2 displays the most common adverse reactions in patients with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 .
The most common adverse reactions reported with both the 27 . 7 mcg / day and 55 . 3 mcg / day dosages included dry mouth , hyponatremia or blood sodium decreased , and dizziness .
The high incidence of dry mouth may have been affected by specific query about dry mouth in Study 3 ( CS29 ) .
In Studies 1 and 2 where the adverse reaction was spontaneously reported , the incidence was ≤ 4 % .
Table 2 : Common Adverse Reactions ( Reported by > 2 % of NOCDURNA - Treated Patients and at a Higher Incidence With Either Dose Than With Placebo ) in Patients With Nocturia Due to Nocturnal Polyuria ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) [ 1 ] Women Men Adverse Reactions Placebo ( N = 173 ) NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg ( N = 196 ) Placebo ( N = 213 ) NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg ( N = 195 ) Dry mouth 19 ( 11 % ) 23 ( 12 % ) 27 ( 13 % ) 27 ( 14 % ) Hyponatremia or blood sodium decreased 3 ( 2 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 8 ( 4 % ) Headache 5 ( 3 % ) 4 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) 7 ( 4 % ) Dizziness 0 3 ( 2 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 5 ( 3 % ) [ 1 ] Includes adverse reactions occurring during up to 3 months of treatment in patients who continued from Study 3 into Study 4 Hyponatremia Serum sodium was measured during screening , at baseline , and on all study visits during treatment including day 4 , week 1 , week 2 ( males only ) , week 4 and then every month of the studies .
Tables 3 and Table 4 show the incidence of serum sodium concentrations below the normal range based on the pooled analysis of three phase 3 studies .
Table 3 : Incidence of Hyponatremia by Sex in Patients with Nocturia due to Nocturnal Polyuria ( Studies 1 , 2 , and 3 ) [ 1 ] Women Men Serum Sodium ( mmol / L ) Placebo ( N = 171 ) NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg / day ( N = 191 ) Placebo ( N = 207 ) NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg / day ( N = 192 ) Some subjects received different doses over the course of Study 3 and are in more than one dose - group .
n is number observed post baseline 130 - 134 7 ( 4 % ) 13 ( 7 % ) 6 ( 3 % ) 33 ( 17 % ) 126 - 129 0 ( 0 % ) 7 ( 4 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) ≤ 125 1 ( < 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 3 ( 2 % ) [ 1 ] Includes adverse reactions occurring during up to 3 months of treatment in patients who continued from Study 3 into Study 4 Table 4 : Incidence of Hyponatremia by Sex and Age in Patients with Nocturia due to Nocturnal Polyuria ( Studies 1 , 2 and 3 ) [ 1 ] Serum Sodium ( mmol / L ) Women < 65 years Women ≥ 65 years Men < 65 years Men ≥ 65 years Placebo ( N = 95 ) NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg / day ( N = 113 ) Placebo ( N = 76 ) NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg / day ( N = 78 ) Placebo ( N = 95 ) NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg / day ( N = 98 ) Placebo ( n = 112 ) NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg / day ( N = 94 ) Some subjects received different doses over the course of study 3 and are in more than one dose - group .
n is number observed post baseline 130 - 134 2 ( 2 % ) 4 ( 4 % ) 5 ( 7 % ) 9 ( 12 % ) 5 ( 5 % ) 11 ( 11 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) 22 ( 23 % ) 126 - 129 0 ( 0 % ) 2 ( 2 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 5 ( 6 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) ≤ 125 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 1 ( 1 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 3 ( 3 % ) [ 1 ] Includes adverse reactions occurring during up to 3 months of treatment in patients who continued from Study 3 into Study 4 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Monitor serum sodium more frequently when NOCDURNA is concomitantly used with drugs that may increase the risk of hyponatremia ( e . g . , tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin re - uptake inhibitors , chlorpromazine , opiate analgesics , thiazide diuretics , NSAIDs , lamotrigine , chlorpropamide and , carbamazepine ) .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drugs That May Increase the Risk of Hyponatremia Concomitant use of NOCDURNA and loop diuretics or systemic or inhaled glucocorticoids is contraindicated because of the risk of severe hyponatremia [ see Boxed Warning , Contraindications ( 4 ) , and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
NOCDURNA can be started or resumed three days or five half - lives after the glucocorticoid is discontinued , whichever is longer .
Drugs such as tricyclic antidepressants , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , chlorpromazine , opiate analgesics , thiazide diuretics , carbamazepine , lamotrigine , sulfonylureas , particularly chlorpropamide , and NSAIDs may increase the risk of hyponatremia .
Monitor serum sodium more frequently in patients taking NOCDURNA concomitantly with these drugs and when doses of these drugs are increased [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Pregnancy : Use of NOCDURNA is not recommended ( 8 . 1 ) • Geriatric use : Increased risk of hyponatremia if 65 years of age or older .
Monitor serum sodium more frequently ( 8 . 5 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary NOCDURNA is not recommended for the treatment of nocturia in pregnant women .
Nocturia is usually related to normal , physiologic changes during pregnancy that do not require treatment with NOCDURNA .
There are no data with NOCDURNA use in pregnant women to inform any drug - associated risks .
No adverse developmental outcomes were observed in animal reproductive and developmental studies following administration of desmopressin acetate during organogenesis to pregnant rats and rabbits , at exposures 92 - and 8 - times , respectively , the maximum recommended dose in women , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) ( see Data ) .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 - 4 % and 15 - 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data Desmopressin acetate , administered during organogenesis did not cause fetal harm in teratology studies in rats at intravenous doses up to 238 mcg / kg / day or in rabbits at subcutaneous doses up to 10 mcg / kg / day , representing 92 - and 8 - times , respectively , the maximum recommended dose in women of 27 . 7 mcg , based on body surface area ( mg / m2 ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Desmopressin is present in small amounts in human milk ( see Data ) .
There is no information on the effects of desmopressin on the breastfed infant or on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s need for NOCDURNA and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from NOCDURNA or from the underlying maternal condition .
Data Human Data The breast milk of lactating women was collected over 8 hours following desmopressin ( 300 mcg ) administration using nasal spray .
Based on the measured concentrations of desmopressin , the amounts of desmopressin that may be transferred to a breastfed infant correspond to 0 . 0001 - 0 . 0005 % of the dose administered .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of NOCDURNA have not been established in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use A total of 562 subjects 65 years or older were enrolled in the clinical trials , about 48 % of the study population .
Clinical studies of desmopressin have shown an increased risk of hyponatremia in patients 65 years of age or older compared to those younger than 65 years of age [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
8 . 6 Renal Impairment No dose adjustment of NOCDURNA is required for patients with an eGFR at or above 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
NOCDURNA is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR below 50 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Overdosage of desmopressin leads to an increased risk of prolonged fluid retention and hyponatremia .
Signs of overdosage may include nausea , headache , drowsiness , confusion , and rapid weight gain due to fluid retention [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
In case of overdosage , NOCDURNA must be discontinued , serum sodium assessed , and hyponatremia treated appropriately .
11 DESCRIPTION NOCDURNA is a sublingual tablet containing desmopressin acetate , a synthetic analog of the endogenous pituitary hormone , 8 - arginine vasopressin ( ADH ) , an antidiuretic hormone .
It is chemically defined as follows : Molecular weight of 1183 . 34 with the following empirical formula : C46H64N14O12S2 ∙ C2H4O2 ∙ 3H2O [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 - ( 3 - mercaptopropionic acid ) - 8 - D - arginine vasopressin monoacetate ( salt ) trihydrate .
NOCDURNA ( desmopressin acetate ) sublingual tablets are available in two strengths .
Each sublingual tablet contains 27 . 7 mcg or 55 . 3 mcg of desmopressin acetate , equivalent to 25 mcg or 50 mcg of desmopressin as free base , respectively .
The inactive ingredients are gelatin , NF ( fish source ) , mannitol , and anhydrous citric acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action The antidiuretic effects of desmopressin are mediated by stimulation of vasopressin 2 ( V2 ) receptors , thereby increasing water re - absorption in the kidneys , and reducing urine production .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics In a pharmacodynamic study following sublingual administration of 60 mcg desmopressin ( 1 . 2 and 2 . 4 times the maximum recommended dose in men and women , respectively ) with suppression of the endogenous vasopressin release by continuous intake of water , the mean time to onset of antidiuretic action was observed within 30 minutes and lasted 6 hours after dosing .
In a study in patients with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria , the weight - corrected NOCDURNA dose that induced 50 % maximum achievable drug effect on nocturnal urine volume ( ED50 ) differed significantly between women and men .
The ED50 value for men was 2 . 7 - fold ( 95 % CI 1 . 3 - 8 . 1 ) higher than the value for women , corresponding to higher desmopressin sensitivity among women [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Dose , sex , age and renal impairment affect the risk of developing hyponatremia [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The pharmacokinetics of desmopressin following sublingual administration of NOCDURNA has not been characterized .
The pharmacokinetic information provided below is from studies following sublingual administration of higher doses or intravenous injection of desmopressin .
Absorption The overall mean absolute bioavailability of desmopressin administered sublingually ( at doses of 200 , 400 and 800 mcg , which represents 4 , 8 , and 16 times the maximum recommend dosage in men ) was 0 . 25 % ( 95 % CI 0 . 21 – 0 . 31 % ) .
Distribution The volume of distribution of desmopressin after intravenous administration of 2 mcg is 26 . 5 L . Elimination The geometric mean terminal half - life is 2 . 8 hours .
Metabolism In vitro studies in human liver microsome preparations have shown that desmopressin is not a substrate for the human CYP450 system .
Excretion Desmopressin is mainly excreted in the urine .
After intravenous administration of 2 mcg , 52 % of the dose was recovered in the urine within 24 hours as unchanged desmopressin .
Drug Interaction Studies In vitro studies in human liver microsome preparations have shown that desmopressin does not inhibit the human CYP450 system .
No in vivo interaction studies have been performed with NOCDURNA .
Patients with Renal Impairment A pharmacokinetic study was conducted in subjects with normal renal function and patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment ( n = 24 , 6 subjects in each group ) who received a single 2 mcg dose of desmopressin intravenous injection .
The geometric mean terminal half - life was 2 . 8 hours in subjects with normal renal function , and 4 , 6 . 6 , and 8 . 7 hours in patients with mild , moderate , and severe renal impairment , respectively .
In patients with mild , moderate and severe renal impairment , mean desmopressin area under the plasma drug concentration time curve ( AUC ) was 1 . 5 - fold , 2 . 4 - fold and 3 . 7 - fold higher , respectively , compared to that of subjects with normal renal function [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies with desmopressin have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Desmopressin was not mutagenic in bacterial mutagenicity ( Ames ) and mouse lymphoma assays .
Animal studies with desmopressin showed no impairment of fertility in male and female rats at doses up to 200 mcg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy of NOCDURNA in the treatment of adults with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria was established in two 3 - month randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , multicenter trials in adults over 18 years of age .
Study 1 enrolled only women and Study 2 enrolled only men .
At baseline , patients were required to document at least two nocturnal voids per night in a consecutive 3 - day diary collected during screening .
Randomization for studies 1 and 2 was stratified by age group ( < 65 vs . ≥ 65 years ) .
Subjects with severe daytime voiding dysfunction and other possible causes of nocturia ( e . g . , uncontrolled diabetes mellitus , obstructive sleep apnea ) were excluded .
In Studies 1 and 2 , the mean age was approximately 60 years and the ethnic / racial distribution was approximately 80 % Caucasian , 20 % African American , and 1 % Asian .
In Study 1 , a total of 237 women with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria were randomized to receive either sublingual NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg ( n = 121 ) or placebo ( n = 116 ) every night approximately 1 hour prior to bedtime for 3 months .
In Study 2 , a total of 230 men with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria were randomized to receive sublingual NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg ( n = 102 ) or placebo ( n = 128 ) every night approximately 1 hour prior to bedtime for 3 months .
Nocturnal polyuria was defined as nighttime urine production exceeding one - third of the 24 - hour urine production confirmed with a 24 - hour urine frequency / volume chart .
The co - primary efficacy endpoints in each trial were 1 ) the change in number of nocturia episodes per night from baseline during the 3 - month treatment period , and 2 ) 33 % responder status during three months of treatment .
A 33 % responder was defined as a subject with a decrease of at least 33 % in the mean number of nocturnal voids compared to baseline .
Many conditions can cause nocturia .
The efficacy and safety of NOCDURNA have not been established for the treatment of all causes of nocturia .
NOCDURNA is indicated only for patients who have nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria .
The results for the co - primary efficacy endpoints among patients with nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria are shown in Table 5 .
Table 5 .
Primary Efficacy Results in Subjects with Nocturia due to Nocturnal Polyuria in Studies 1 and 2 ( mITT population ) Women ( Study 1 ) Men ( Study 2 ) Placebo NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg once daily Placebo NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg once daily N = 114 N = 118 N = 128 N = 102 mITT : modified Intent - to - Treat ( including all randomized patients who received at least one dose of study drug ) CI = confidence interval Mean number of nocturnal voids Baseline ( mean ) 2 . 9 2 . 9 3 . 0 3 . 0 Change from baseline [ 1 ] - 1 . 2 - 1 . 5 - 0 . 9 - 1 . 3 Difference from placebo null - 0 . 3 - 0 . 4 95 % CI null ( - 0 . 5 , - 0 . 1 ) ( - 0 . 6 , - 0 . 2 ) 33 % responder status Probability [ 2 ] 0 . 62 0 . 78 0 . 50 0 . 67 Odds Ratio null 2 . 15 2 . 02 95 % CI null ( 1 . 36 , 3 . 41 ) ( 1 . 30 , 3 . 14 ) [ 1 ] Repeated measures ANCOVA of change from baseline at Week 1 , Month 1 , Month 2 and Month 3 , adjusted for age stratification factor ( < 65 , ≥ 65 years ) , visit , and baseline nocturnal voids [ 2 ] GEE Method for 33 % responder status at Week 1 , Month 1 , Month 2 and Month 3 , adjusted for age stratification factor ( < 65 , ≥ 65 years ) , visit , and baseline nocturnal voids To help interpret the clinical meaningfulness of the efficacy findings , results of the additional analyses for the percentage of nights during the 3 - month treatment period with no nocturia and the percentage of nights during the 3 - month treatment period with at most one nocturia episode , are displayed in Table 6 .
Table 6 Summary of Additional Analysis Results in Subjects with Nocturia due to Nocturnal Polyuria in Studies 1 and 2 ( mITT population ) Women ( Study 1 ) Men ( Study 2 ) Placebo NOCDURNA 27 . 7 mcg once daily Placebo NOCDURNA 55 . 3 mcg once daily N = 114 N = 118 N = 128 N = 102 mITT : modified Intent - to - Treat ( including all randomized patients who received at least one dose of study drug ) CI : confidence interval Percentage of nights with at most one nocturnal void Baseline ( mean ) 0 % 1 % 1 % 0 % Percentage [ 1 ] 45 % 58 % 32 % 44 % Difference from placebo null 13 % 11 % 95 % CI null ( 4 % , 21 % ) ( 3 % , 20 % ) Percentage of nights with no nocturnal voids Baseline ( mean ) 0 % 0 % 0 % 0 % Percentage null 15 % 19 % 7 % 15 % Difference from placebo null 4 % 9 % 95 % CI null ( - 3 % , 11 % ) ( 4 % , 14 % ) [ 1 ] ANCOVA model adjusted for treatment , age stratification factor ( < 65 , ≥ 65 years ) , and baseline nocturnal voids 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NOCDURNA ( desmopressin acetate ) sublingual tablets are available as : 27 . 7 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 25 mcg of desmopressin ) : White , round , sublingual tablet with " 25 " on one side .
NDC 55566 - 5050 - 1 Carton of 30 sublingual tablets ( 3 blister packs with 10 tablets each ) 55 . 3 mcg of desmopressin acetate ( equivalent to 50 mcg of desmopressin ) : White , round , sublingual tablet with " 50 " on one side .
NDC 55566 - 5070 - 1 Carton of 30 sublingual tablets ( 3 blister packs with 10 tablets each ) Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep in original package to protect from moisture and light .
Use immediately upon opening individual tablet blister .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Fluid Restriction , Hyponatremia , Sodium Monitoring and Acute Illnesses • Instruct patients to place one tablet under the tongue one hour before bedtime and to empty their bladder immediately prior to bedtime .
The tablet should remain under the tongue until it dissolves .
[ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
• Advise patients to limit fluid intake to a minimum starting one hour prior to NOCDURNA administration and for eight hours following NOCDURNA administration .
Advise patients to avoid caffeine and alcohol before bedtime [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that NOCDURNA may cause severe hyponatremia , which may be life - threatening , if it is not promptly diagnosed and treated .
Inform them about the signs and symptoms associated with hyponatremia , to undergo recommended serum sodium measurements , and to inform their health care provider about new medications [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Inform patients that NOCDURNA should be stopped during acute intercurrent illnesses that cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Manufactured for : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc . , Parsippany , NJ Made in United Kingdom XXXXXXXXXX MEDICATION GUIDE NOCDURNA ® ( knock - DUHR - nah ) ( desmopressin acetate ) sublingual tablets What is the most important information I should know about NOCDURNA ?
NOCDURNA may cause serious side effects , including : • Low levels of salt ( sodium ) in your blood ( hyponatremia ) .
Low levels of salt in your blood is a serious side effect of NOCDURNA that may be life threatening , causing seizures , coma , trouble breathing or death , if not treated early .
Stop taking NOCDURNA and call your healthcare provider if you have any of the following symptoms of low salt levels in your blood : • headache • feeling restless • drowsiness • muscle cramps • nausea or vomiting • tiredness ( fatigue ) • dizziness • change in your mental condition such as hallucinations , confusion , decreased awareness or alertness • You should not take NOCDURNA if you are at risk for very low salt levels in your blood , for example , if you drink a lot of fluid , have illnesses that can cause you to have fluid or body salt ( electrolyte ) imbalances , if you take a certain type of " water - pill " called a loop diuretic or take glucocorticoids including inhaled steroids .
• Tell your healthcare provider if you have a fever , infection , or diarrhea while taking NOCDURNA as these can cause you to have fluid or body salt ( electrolyte ) imbalance .
Your healthcare provider may tell you not to take NOCDURNA while you have these symptoms .
• Your healthcare provider should check your blood salt levels : • before you start or restart taking NOCDURNA .
• within the first week after you start NOCDURNA .
• 1 month after you start NOCDURNA .
• every so often as told to you by your healthcare provider , with testing more often if you are already at risk for low salt levels , for example if you are 65 years or older or take certain medicines that increase your risk of low salt levels .
See " What are the possible side effects of NOCDURNA ? "
for more information about side effects .
What is NOCDURNA ?
NOCDURNA is a prescription medicine used in adults who wake up at least 2 times during the night to urinate due to a condition called nocturnal polyuria .
Nocturnal polyuria is a condition where your body makes too much urine at night .
There are other conditions that could cause you to wake up during the night to urinate .
NOCDURNA is only approved for the treatment of nocturnal polyuria .
Your doctor should have you measure your urine and the times that you urinate for 24 hours to determine if you have nocturnal polyuria , if you have not already done this .
It is not known if NOCDURNA is safe and effective in children .
Do not take NOCDURNA if you : • have or have had low salt levels in your blood .
• are thirsty much of the time and drink large amounts of fluids ( polydipsia ) .
• are taking a type of water pill called a loop - diuretic .
• are taking a glucocorticoid ( steroid ) medicine , including an inhaled glucocorticoid ( steroid ) medicine .
• have moderate or severe kidney disease .
• have or may have a condition called syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ( SIADH ) secretion .
• have an illness that can cause you to have low levels of fluid or electrolytes in your blood such as vomiting , diarrhea , an infection , or a kidney problem that causes you to have low levels of salt .
• have a heart condition called heart failure .
• have high blood pressure that is not controlled .
• are allergic to any ingredient in NOCDURNA tablets ( see a complete list of ingredients at the end of this Medication Guide ) .
Talk to your healthcare provider before you take NOCDURNA if you have any of these conditions or take any of these medicines .
Before taking NOCDURNA , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are at risk for low salt levels in your blood .
• currently have vomiting , diarrhea , fever or an infection .
• have any heart or kidney problems .
• have high blood pressure .
• have increased pressure in your brain ( increased intracranial pressure ) .
• have a history of not being able to empty your bladder all the way ( urinary retention ) .
• are pregnant or planning to become pregnant .
It is not known if NOCDURNA can harm your unborn baby .
NOCDURNA is not recommended to treat normal symptoms of pregnancy that cause pregnant women to urinate often at night .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
Desmopressin , an ingredient in NOCDURNA , passes into breastmilk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby if you take NOCDURNA .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using NOCDURNA with certain medicines may cause serious side effects .
Do not start taking any new medicines until you talk to your healthcare provider .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take a : • water pill ( diuretic ) .
• glucocorticoid ( steroid ) medicine , including an inhaled glucocorticoid ( steroid ) medicine .
• your doctor should stop your treatment with NOCDURNA for a period of time while you are taking and after you stop taking an oral or inhaled glucocorticoid ( steroid ) medicine • medicine used to treat depression called a tricyclic antidepressant or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) .
• medicine used to treat mood disorders , such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder called chlorpromazine .
• medicine used to treat seizures , nerve pain , or bipolar disorder called carbamazepine .
• non - steroidal anti - inflammatory medicine ( NSAID ) .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you are not sure if your medicine is one that is listed above .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have fever , infection , or diarrhea while taking NOCDURNA as these can cause you to have fluid or body salt ( electrolyte ) imbalance .
Your healthcare provider may tell you not to take NOCDURNA while you have these symptoms .
How should I take NOCDURNA ?
• You should take NOCDURNA 1 time each day , 1 hour before bedtime without water .
• When you are ready to take your dose of NOCDURNA : • Place the tablet under your tongue 1 hour before bedtime .
Leave the tablet under your tongue until it dissolves .
• Empty your bladder just before bedtime .
• While taking NOCDURNA , you should limit the amount of water or liquids you drink from 1 hour before taking NOCDURNA and until 8 hours after .
You may have serious side effects if you drink too much liquid .
• You should avoid drinks containing caffeine and alcohol before bedtime as this can cause your body to make more urine .
• Do not take more NOCDURNA than prescribed for you .
If you take too much NOCDURNA , call your healthcare provider right away or get emergency treatment .
What are the possible side effects of NOCDURNA ?
NOCDURNA may cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about NOCDURNA ? "
The most common side effects of NOCDURNA include : • dry mouth • low levels of salt in blood ( hyponatremia ) • dizziness These are not all of the possible side effects of NOCDURNA .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store NOCDURNA ?
Store NOCDURNA at room temperature between 68 ° to 77 ° F ( 20 ° to 25 ° C ) .
Keep NOCDURNA in its blister pack until it is time to take it , in order to protect it from moisture and light .
Keep NOCDURNA and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of NOCDURNA .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use NOCDURNA for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give NOCDURNA to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about NOCDURNA that is written for health professionals .
What are the ingredients in NOCDURNA ?
Active ingredient : desmopressin acetate Inactive ingredients : gelatin , NF ( fish source ) , mannitol , anhydrous citric acid Manufactured by : Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 , USA XXXXXXXXXX 06 / 2018 For more information , go to www . NOCDURNA . com or call 1 - 888 - FERRING ( 1 - 888 - 337 - 7464 ) .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration Approved : 06 / 2018 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 27 . 7 mcg Tablet Blister Pack Carton 30 Sublingual Tablets ( 3 x 10 count blister cards ) Rx ONLY NDC 55566 - 5050 - 1 Nocdurna ® ( desmopressin acetate ) Sublingual Tablets 27 . 7 mcg per tablet ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Each patient is required to receive the enclosed Medication Guide .
Do not break open and dispense partial quantities .
FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 55 . 3 mcg Tablet Blister Pack Carton 30 Sublingual Tablets ( 3 x 10 count blister cards ) Rx ONLY NDC 55566 - 5070 - 1 Nocdurna ® ( desmopressin acetate ) Sublingual Tablets 55 . 3 mcg per tablet ATTENTION PHARMACIST : Each patient is required to receive the enclosed Medication Guide .
Do not break open and dispense partial quantities .
FERRING PHARMACEUTICALS [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
