NDC : 51655 - 401 - 30 MFG : 68180 - 514 - 03 Lisinopril 10 MG 30 Tablets Rx only Lot # NW60140002 Exp .
Date : 08 / 2016 Each tablet contains : Lisinopril USP .... 10 mg Dosage : See package insert Store between 68 - 77 degrees F . Protect from moisture .
Store in a tight , light - resistant container ( See USP ) .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( m . P ) 454 775 India Mfg . for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc Baltimore , Maryland 21202 USA Lot # H303364 Repackaged By : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Warnings Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including lisinopril ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx has been reported in patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril .
This may occur at any time during treatment .
ACE inhibitors have been associated with a higher rate of angioedema in Black than in non - Black patients .
Lisinopril should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred .
Even in those instances where swelling of only the tongue is involved , without respiratory distress , patients may require prolonged observation since treatment with antihistamines and corticosteroids may not be sufficient .
Very rarely , fatalities have been reported due to angioedema associated with laryngeal edema or tongue edema .
Patients with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx are likely to experience airway obstruction , especially those with a history of airway surgery .
Where there is involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx , likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 mL to 0 . 5 mL ) and / or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided ( See ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Intestinal Angioedema Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound or at surgery and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor ( see also INDICATIONS AND USAGE and CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure Sudden and potentially life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in some patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes ( e . g . , AN69 ® * ) and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
In such patients , dialysis must be stopped immediately , and aggressive therapy for anaphylactoid reactions must be initiated .
Symptoms have not been relieved by antihistamines in these situations .
In these patients , consideration should be given to using a different type of dialysis membrane or a different class of antihypertensive agent .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
* AN69 ® is a registered trademark of Hospal Ltd .
Hypotension Excessive hypotension is rare in patients with uncomplicated hypertension treated with lisinopril alone .
Patients with heart failure given lisinopril commonly have some reduction in blood pressure , with peak blood pressure reduction occurring 6 to 8 hours post dose .
Evidence from the two - dose ATLAS trial suggested that incidence of hypotension may increase with dose of lisinopril in heart failure patients .
Discontinuation of therapy because of continuing symptomatic hypotension usually is not necessary when dosing instructions are followed ; caution should be observed when initiating therapy .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Patients at risk of excessive hypotension , sometimes associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death , include those with the following conditions or characteristics : heart failure with systolic blood pressure below 100 mmHg , hyponatremia , high dose diuretic therapy , recent intensive diuresis or increase in diuretic dose , renal dialysis , or severe volume and / or salt depletion of any etiology .
It may be advisable to eliminate the diuretic ( except in patients with heart failure ) , reduce the diuretic dose or increase salt intake cautiously before initiating therapy with lisinopril in patients at risk for excessive hypotension who are able to tolerate such adjustments .
( See PRECAUTIONS Drug Interactions and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction in the GISSI - 3 trial had a higher ( 9 % versus 3 . 7 % ) incidence of persistent hypotension ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) when treated with lisinopril .
Treatment with lisinopril must not be initiated in acute myocardial infarction patients at risk of further serious hemodynamic deterioration after treatment with a vasodilator ( e . g . , systolic blood pressure of 100 mmHg or lower ) or cardiogenic shock .
In patients at risk of excessive hypotension , therapy should be started under very close medical supervision and such patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of lisinopril and / or diuretic is increased .
Similar considerations may apply to patients with ischemic heart or cerebrovascular disease , or in patients with acute myocardial infarction , in whom an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident .
If excessive hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and , if necessary , receive an intravenous infusion of normal saline .
A transient hypotensive response is not a contraindication to further doses of lisinopril which usually can be given without difficulty once the blood pressure has stabilized .
If symptomatic hypotension develops , a dose reduction or discontinuation of lisinopril or concomitant diuretic may be necessary .
Leukopenia / Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis Another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment especially if they also have a collagen vascular disease .
Available data from clinical trials of lisinopril are insufficient to show that lisinopril does not cause agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Marketing experience has revealed rare cases of leukopenia / neutropenia and bone marrow depression in which a causal relationship to lisinopril cannot be excluded .
Periodic monitoring of white blood cell counts in patients with collagen vascular disease and renal disease should be considered .
Hepatic Failure Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice or hepatitis and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue lisinopril as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue lisinopril , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to lisinopril for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
( See PRECAUTIONS , PEDIATRIC USE ) .
No teratogenic effects of lisinopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits .
On a mg / kg basis , the doses used were up to 625 times ( in mice ) , 188 times ( in rats ) , and 0 . 6 times ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Precautions General Aortic Stenosis / Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy As with all vasodialators , lisinopril should be given with caution to patients with obstruction in the outflow tract of the left ventricle .
Impaired Renal Function As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
In patients with severe congestive heart failure whose renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with another angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor suggests that these increases are usually reversible upon discontinuation of lisinopril and / or diuretic therapy .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some patients with hypertension or heart failure with no apparent pre - existing renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient , especially when lisinopril has been given concomitantly with a diuretic .
This is more likely to occur in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Dosage reduction and / or discontinuation of the diuretic and / or lisinopril may be required .
Patients with acute myocardial infarction in the GISSI - 3 trial treated with lisinopril had a higher ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % ) incidence of renal dysfunction in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg / dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) .
In acute myocardial infarction , treatment with lisinopril should be initiated with caution in patients with evidence of renal dysfunction , defined as serum creatinine concentration exceeding 2 mg / dL .
If renal dysfunction develops during treatment with lisinopril ( serum creatinine concentration exceeding 3 mg / dL or a doubling from the pre - treatment value ) then the physician should consider withdrawal of lisinopril .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension , heart failure , or myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Hyperkalemia In clinical trials hyperkalemia ( serum potassium greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L ) occurred in approximately 2 . 2 % of hypertensive patients and 4 . 8 % of patients with heart failure .
In most cases these were isolated values which resolved despite continued therapy .
Hyperkalemia was a cause of discontinuation of therapy in approximately 0 . 1 % of hypertensive patients ; 0 . 6 % of patients with heart failure and 0 . 1 % of patients with myocardial infarction .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
Hyperkalemia can cause serious , sometimes fatal , arrhythmias .
Lisinopril should be used cautiously , if at all , with these agents and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium ( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , almost always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing major surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , lisinopril may block angiotensin II formation secondary to compensatory renin release .
If hypotension occurs and is considered to be due to this mechanism , it can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients Angioedema Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , may occur at any time during treatment with angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors , including lisinopril .
Patients should be so advised and told to report immediately any signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension Patients should be cautioned to report lightheadedness especially during the first few days of therapy .
If actual syncope occurs , the patient should be told to discontinue the drug until they have consulted with the prescribing physician .
All patients should be cautioned that excessive perspiration and dehydration may lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure because of reduction in fluid volume .
Other causes of volume depletion such as vomiting or diarrhea may also lead to a fall in blood pressure ; patients should be advised to consult with their physician .
Hyperkalemia Patients should be told not to use salt substitutes containing potassium without consulting their physician .
Hypoglycemia Diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or insulin starting an ACE inhibitor should be told to closely monitor for hypoglycemia , especially during the first month of combined use .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
Leukopenia / Neutropenia Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) which may be a sign of leukopenia / neutropenia .
Pregnancy Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to lisinopril during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
NOTE : As with many other drugs , certain advice to patients being treated with lisinopril is warranted .
This information is intended to aid in the safe and effective use of this medication .
It is not a disclosure of all possible adverse or intended effects .
Drug Interactions Hypotension - Patients on Diuretic Therapy Patients on diuretics and especially those in whom diuretic therapy was recently instituted , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of therapy with lisinopril .
The possibility of hypotensive effects with lisinopril can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with lisinopril .
If it is necessary to continue the diuretic , initiate therapy with lisinopril at a dose of 5 mg daily , and provide close medical supervision after the initial dose until blood pressure has stabilized ( See WARNINGS , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
When a diuretic is added to the therapy of a patient receiving lisinopril , an additional antihypertensive effect is usually observed .
Studies with ACE inhibitors in combination with diuretics indicate that the dose of the ACE inhibitor can be reduced when it is given with a diuretic .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Antidiabetics Epidemiological studies have suggested that concomitant administration of ACE inhibitors and antidiabetic medicines ( insulins , oral hypoglycemic agents ) may cause an increased blood - glucose - lowering effect with risk of hypoglycemia .
This phenomenon appeared to be more likely to occur during the first weeks of combined treatment and in patients with renal impairment .
In diabetic patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or insulin , glycemic control should be closely monitored for hypoglycemia , especially during the first month of treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
Non - steroidal Anti - inflammatory Agents Including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving lisinopril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including lisinopril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on lisinopril and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with lisinopril in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min ) .
Other Agents Lisinopril has been used concomitantly with nitrates and / or digoxin without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions .
This included post myocardial infarction patients who were receiving intravenous or transdermal nitroglycerin .
No clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions occurred when lisinopril was used concomitantly with propranolol or hydrochlorothiazide .
The presence of food in the stomach does not alter the bioavailability of lisinopril .
Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Lisinopril attenuates potassium loss caused by thiazide - type diuretics .
Use of lisinopril with potassium - sparing diuretics ( e . g . , spironolactone , eplerenone , triamterene or amiloride ) , potassium supplements , or potassium - containing salt substitutes may lead to significant increases in serum potassium .
Therefore , if concomitant use of these agents is indicated because of demonstrated hypokalemia , they should be used with caution and with frequent monitoring of serum potassium .
Potassium - sparing agents should generally not be used in patients with heart failure who are receiving lisinopril .
Lithium Lithium toxicity has been reported in patients receiving lithium concomitantly with drugs which cause elimination of sodium , including ACE inhibitors .
Lithium toxicity was usually reversible upon discontinuation of lithium and the ACE inhibitor .
It is recommended that serum lithium levels be monitored frequently if lisinopril is administered concomitantly with lithium .
Gold Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy including lisinopril .
Use in Specific Populations Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There was no evidence of a tumorigenic effect when lisinopril was administered for 105 weeks to male and female rats at doses up to 90 mg / kg / day ( about 56 or 9 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose , based on body weight and body surface area , respectively ) .
There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when lisinopril was administered for 92 weeks to ( male and female ) mice at doses up to 135 mg / kg / day ( about 84 times * the maximum recommended daily human dose ) .
This dose was 6 . 8 times the maximum human dose based on body surface area in mice .
Lisinopril was not mutagenic in the Ames microbial mutagen test with or without metabolic activation .
It was also negative in a forward mutation assay using Chinese hamster lung cells .
Lisinopril did not produce single strand DNA breaks in an in vitro alkaline elution rat hepatocyte assay .
In addition , lisinopril did not produce increases in chromosomal aberrations in an in vitro test in Chinese hamster ovary cells or in an in vivo study in mouse bone marrow .
There were no adverse effects on reproductive performance in male and female rats treated with up to 300 mg / kg / day of lisinopril .
This dose is 188 times and 30 times the maximum human dose when based on mg / kg and mg / m2 , respectively .
* Calculations assume a human weight of 50 kg and human body surface area of 1 . 62 m2 .
Nursing Mothers Milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants from ACE inhibitors , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or discontinue lisinopril , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to lisinopril If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Lisinopril , which crosses the placenta , has been removed from neonatal circulation by peritoneal dialysis with some clinical benefit , and theoretically may be removed by exchange transfusion , although there is no experience with the latter procedure .
Antihypertensive effects of lisinopril have been established in hypertensive pediatric patients aged 6 to 16 years .
There are no data on the effect of lisinopril on blood pressure in pediatric patients under the age 6 or in pediatric patients with glomerular filtration rate < 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ( See CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism and Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Geriatic Use Clinical studies of lisinopril in patients with hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other clinical experience in this population has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
In the ATLAS trial of lisinopril in patients with congestive heart failure , 1 , 596 ( 50 % ) were 65 and over , while 437 ( 14 % ) were 75 and over .
In a clinical study of lisinopril in patients with myocardial infarctions 4 , 413 ( 47 % ) were 65 and over , while 1 , 656 ( 18 % ) were 75 and over .
In these studies , no overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between elderly and younger patients , and other reported clinical experiences has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Heart Failure and CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects , Acute Myocardial Infarction ) .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
Pharmacokinetic studies indicate that maximum blood levels and area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) are doubled in older patients ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism ) .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection .
Evaluation of patients with hypertension , congestive heart failure , or myocardial infarction should always include assessment of renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Adverse Reactions Lisinopril has been found to be generally well tolerated in controlled clinical trials involving 1969 patients with hypertension or heart failure .
For the most part , adverse experiences were mild and transient .
Hypertension In clinical trials in patients with hypertension treated with lisinopril , discontinuation of therapy due to clinical adverse experiences occurred in 5 . 7 % of patients .
The overall frequency of adverse experiences could not be related to total daily dosage within the recommended therapeutic dosage range .
PLEASE REVIEW THE MANUFACTURER ' S COMPLETE DRUG INFORMATION FOR THE POTENTIAL ADVERSE REACTIONS : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 7d6c31e2 - b5a4 - 4279 - 8013 - a8dad37ea73b CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Lisinopril inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
The beneficial effects of lisinopril in hypertension and heart failure appear to result primarily from suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated with lisinopril alone for up to 24 weeks , the mean increase in serum potassium was approximately 0 . 1 mEq / L ; however , approximately 15 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 6 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L .
In the same study , patients treated with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide for up to 24 weeks had a mean decrease in serum potassium of 0 . 1 mEq / L ; approximately 4 % of patients had increases greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L and approximately 12 % had a decrease greater than 0 . 5 mEq / L .
( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of lisinopril remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which lisinopril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , lisinopril is antihypertensive even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Although lisinopril was antihypertensive in all races studied , Black hypertensive patients ( usually a low - renin hypertensive population ) had a smaller average response to monotherapy than non - Black patients .
Concomitant administration of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide further reduced blood pressure in Black and non - Black patients and any racial differences in blood pressure response were no longer evident .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Adult Patients Following oral administration of lisinopril , peak serum concentrations of lisinopril occur within about 7 hours , although there was a trend to a small delay in time taken to reach peak serum concentrations in acute myocardial infarction patients .
Declining serum concentrations exhibit a prolonged terminal phase which does not contribute to drug accumulation .
This terminal phase probably represents saturable binding to ACE and is not proportional to dose .
Lisinopril does not appear to be bound to other serum proteins .
Lisinopril does not undergo metabolism and is excreted unchanged entirely in the urine .
Based on urinary recovery , the mean extent of absorption of lisinopril is approximately 25 % , with large intersubject variability ( 6 % - 60 % ) at all doses tested ( 5 - 80 mg ) .
Lisinopril absorption is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract .
The absolute bioavailability of lisinopril is reduced to 16 % in patients with stable NYHA Class II - IV congestive heart failure , and the volume of distribution appears to be slightly smaller than that in normal subjects .
The oral bioavailability of lisinopril in patients with acute myocardial infarction is similar to that in healthy volunteers .
Upon multiple dosing , lisinopril exhibits an effective half - life of accumulation of 12 hours .
Impaired renal function decreases elimination of lisinopril , which is excreted principally through the kidneys , but this decrease becomes clinically important only when the glomerular filtration rate is below 30 mL / min .
Above this glomerular filtration rate , the elimination half - life is little changed .
With greater impairment , however , peak and trough lisinopril levels increase , time to peak concentration increases and time to attain steady state is prolonged .
Older patients , on average , have ( approximately doubled ) higher blood levels and area under the plasma concentration time curve ( AUC ) than younger patients .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Lisinopril can be removed by hemodialysis .
Studies in rats indicate that lisinopril crosses the blood - brain barrier poorly .
Multiple doses of lisinopril in rats do not result in accumulation in any tissues .
Milk of lactating rats contains radioactivity following administration of 14 C lisinopril .
By whole body autoradiography , radioactivity was found in the placenta following administration of labeled drug to pregnant rats , but none was found in the fetuses .
Pediatric patients The pharmacokinetics of lisinopril were studied in 29 pediatric hypertensive patients between 6 years and 16 years with glomerular filtration rate > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 .
After doses of 0 . 1 to 0 . 2 mg / kg , steady state peak plasma concentrations of lisinopril occurred within 6 hours and the extent of absorption based on urinary recovery was about 28 % .
These values are similar to those obtained previously in adults .
The typical value of lisinopril oral clearance ( systemic clearance / absolute bioavailability ) in a child weighing 30 kg is 10 L / h , which increases in proportion to renal function .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects Hypertension Adult Patients Administration of lisinopril to patients with hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is usually not observed although it can occur and should be anticipated in volume and / or salt - depleted patients .
( See WARNINGS ) .
When given together with thiazide - type diuretics , the blood pressure lowering effects of the two drugs are approximately additive .
In most patients studied , onset of antihypertensive activity was seen at one hour after oral administration of an individual dose of lisinopril , with peak reduction of blood pressure achieved by 6 hours .
Although an antihypertensive effect was observed 24 hours after dosing with recommended single daily doses , the effect was more consistent and the mean effect was considerably larger in some studies with doses of 20 mg or more than with lower doses ; however , at all doses studied , the mean antihypertensive effect was substantially smaller 24 hours after dosing than it was 6 hours after dosing .
In some patients achievement of optimal blood pressure reduction may require two to four weeks of therapy .
The antihypertensive effects of lisinopril are maintained during long - term therapy .
Abrupt withdrawal of lisinopril has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure , or a significant increase in blood pressure compared to pretreatment levels .
Two dose - response studies utilizing a once - daily regimen were conducted in 438 mild to moderate hypertensive patients not on a diuretic .
Blood pressure was measured 24 hours after dosing .
An antihypertensive effect of lisinopril was seen with 5 mg in some patients ; however , in both studies blood pressure reduction occurred sooner and was greater in patients treated with 10 , 20 or 80 mg of lisinopril .
In controlled clinical studies , lisinopril 20 - 80 mg has been compared in patients with mild to moderate hypertension to hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 - 50 mg and with atenolol 50 - 200 mg ; and in patients with moderate to severe hypertension to metoprolol 100 - 200 mg .
It was superior to hydrochlorothiazide in effects on systolic and diastolic pressure in a population that was 3 / 4 Caucasian .
Lisinopril was approximately equivalent to atenolol and metoprolol in effects on diastolic blood pressure , and had somewhat greater effects on systolic blood pressure .
Lisinopril had similar effectiveness and adverse effects in younger and older ( > 65 years ) patients .
It was less effective in Blacks than in Caucasians .
In hemodynamic studies in patients with essential hypertension , blood pressure reduction was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance with little or no change in cardiac output and in heart rate .
In a study in nine hypertensive patients , following administration of lisinopril , there was an increase in mean renal blood flow that was not significant .
Data from several small studies are inconsistent with respect to the effect of lisinopril on glomerular filtration rate in hypertensive patients with normal renal function , but suggest that changes , if any , are not large .
In patients with renovascular hypertension lisinopril has been shown to be well tolerated and effective in controlling blood pressure ( See PRECAUTIONS ) .
Pediatric Patients In a clinical study involving 115 hypertensive pediatric patients 6 to 16 years of age , patients who weighed < 50 kg received either 0 . 625 , 2 . 5 or 20 mg of lisinopril daily and patients who weighed ≥ 50 kg received either 1 . 25 , 5 , or 40 mg of lisinopril daily .
At the end of 2 weeks , lisinopril administered once daily lowered trough blood pressure in a dose - dependent manner with consistent antihypertensive efficacy demonstrated at doses > 1 . 25 mg ( 0 . 02 mg / kg ) .
This effect was confirmed in a withdrawal phase , where the diastolic pressure rose by about 9 mmHg more in patients randomized to placebo than it did in patients who were randomized to remain on the middle and high doses of lisinopril .
The dose - dependent antihypertensive effect of lisinopril was consistent across several demographic subgroups : age , Tanner stage , gender , and race .
In this study , lisinopril was generally well tolerated .
In the above pediatric studies , lisinopril was given either as tablets or in a suspension for those children and infants who were unable to swallow tablets or who required a lower dose than is available in tablet form .
Heart Failure During baseline - controlled clinical trials , in patients receiving digitalis and diuretics , single doses of lisinopril resulted in decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure , systemic vascular resistance and blood pressure accompanied by an increase in cardiac output and no change in heart rate .
In two placebo controlled , 12 - week clinical studies using doses of lisinopril upto 20 mg , lisinopril as adjunctive therapy to digitalis and diuretics improved the following signs and symptoms due to congestive heart failure : edema , rales , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and jugular venous distention .
In one of the studies , beneficial response was also noted for : orthopnea , presence of third heart sound and the number of patients classified as NYHA Class III and IV .
Exercise tolerance was also improved in this study .
The once - daily dosing for the treatment of congestive heart failure was the only dosage regimen used during clinical trial development and was determined by the measurement of hemodynamic response .
A large ( over 3000 patients ) survival study , the ATLAS Trial , comparing 2 . 5 and 35 mg of lisinopril in patients with heart failure , showed that the higher dose of lisinopril had outcomes at least as favorable as the lower dose .
Acute Myocardial Infarction The Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvienza nell ’ Infarto Miocardico ( GISSI - 3 ) study was a multicenter , controlled , randomized , unblinded clinical trial conducted in 19 , 394 patients with acute myocardial infarction admitted to a coronary care unit .
It was designed to examine the effects of short - term ( 6 week ) treatment with lisinopril , nitrates , their combination , or no therapy on short - term ( 6 week ) mortality and on long - term death and markedly impaired cardiac function .
Patients presenting within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms who were hemodynamically stable were randomized , in a 2 x 2 factorial design , to six weeks of either 1 ) lisinopril alone ( n = 4841 ) , 2 ) nitrates alone ( n = 4869 ) , 3 ) lisinopril plus nitrates ( n = 4841 ) , or 4 ) open control ( n = 4843 ) .
All patients received routine therapies , including thrombolytics ( 72 % ) , aspirin ( 84 % ) , and a beta - blocker ( 31 % ) , as appropriate , normally utilized in acute myocardial infarction ( MI ) patients .
The protocol excluded patients with hypotension ( systolic blood pressure ( 100 mmHg ) , severe heart failure , cardiogenic shock , and renal dysfunction ( serum creatinine > 2 mg / dL and / or proteinuria > 500 mg / 24 h ) .
Doses of lisinopril were adjusted as necessary according to protocol ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Study treatment was withdrawn at six weeks except where clinical conditions indicated continuation of treatment .
The primary outcomes of the trial were the overall mortality at 6 weeks and a combined end point at 6 months after the myocardial infarction , consisting of the number of patients who died , had late ( day 4 ) clinical congestive heart failure , or had extensive left ventricular damage defined as ejection fraction ≤ 35 % or an akinetic - dyskinetic [ A - D ] score ≥ 45 % .
Patients receiving lisinopril ( n = 9646 ) , alone or with nitrates , had an 11 % lower risk of death ( 2 p [ two - tailed ] = 0 . 04 ) compared to patients receiving no lisinopril ( n = 9672 ) ( 6 . 4 % vs . 7 . 2 % , respectively ) at six weeks .
Although patients randomized to receive lisinopril for up to six weeks also fared numerically better on the combined end point at 6 months , the open nature of the assessment of heart failure , substantial loss to follow - up echocardiography , and substantial excess use of lisinopril between 6 weeks and 6 months in the group randomized to 6 weeks of lisinopril , preclude any conclusion about this end point . Patients with acute myocardial infarction , treated with lisinopril , had a higher ( 9 % versus 3 . 7 % ) incidence of persistent hypotension ( systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg for more than 1 hour ) and renal dysfunction ( 2 . 4 % versus 1 . 1 % ) in - hospital and at six weeks ( increasing creatinine concentration to over 3 mg / dL or a doubling or more of the baseline serum creatinine concentration ) .
See ADVERSE REACTIONS Acute Myocardial Infarction .
