Injection , USP 40 mEq ( 2 mEq / mL ) FOR ADDITIVE USE ONLY AFTER DILUTION IN INTRAVENOUS FLUIDS .
Plastic Vial Rx only DESCRIPTION Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq ( 2 mEq / mL ) is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , concentrated solution of sodium acetate in water for injection .
The solution is administered , after dilution , by the intravenous route as an electrolyte replenisher .
It must not be administered undiluted .
Each 20 mL contains 3 . 28 g of sodium acetate ( anhydrous ) which provides 40 mEq each of sodium ( Na + ) and acetate ( CH3COO − ) .
The solution contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer .
May contain acetic acid for pH adjustment ; the pH is 6 . 5 ( 6 . 0 to 7 . 0 ) .
The osmolar concentration is 4 mOsmol / mL ( calc ) .
The solution is intended as an alternative to sodium chloride to provide sodium ion ( Na + ) for addition to large volume infusion fluids for intravenous use .
Sodium Acetate , USP ( anhydrous ) is chemically designated CH3COONa , a hygroscopic powder very soluble in water .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The safety of the plastic has been confirmed by tests in animals according to USP biological standards for plastic containers .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentration .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Sodium is the principal cation of extracellular fluid .
It comprises more than 90 % of total cations at its normal plasma concentration of approximately 140 mEq / liter .
The sodium ion exerts a primary role in controlling total body water and its distribution .
Acetate ( CH3COO − ) , a source of hydrogen ion acceptors , is an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily , even in the presence of severe liver disease .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq is indicated as a source of sodium , for addition to large volume intravenous fluids to prevent or correct hyponatremia in patients with restricted or no oral intake .
It is also useful as an additive for preparing specific intravenous fluid formulas when the needs of the patient cannot be met by standard electrolyte or nutrient solutions .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq is contraindicated in patients with hypernatremia or fluid retention .
WARNINGS Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq must be diluted before use .
To avoid sodium overload and water retention , infuse sodium - containing solutions slowly .
Solutions containing sodium ions should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of solutions containing sodium ions may result in sodium retention .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with great care in patients with metabolic or respiratory alkalosis .
Acetate should be administered with great care in those conditions in which there is an increased level or an impaired utilization of this ion , such as severe hepatic insufficiency .
The intravenous administration of this solution ( after appropriate dilution ) can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of other serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
Excessive administration of potassium free solutions may result in significant hypokalemia .
WARNING : This product contains aluminum that may be toxic .
Aluminum may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration if kidney function is impaired .
Premature neonates are particularly at risk because their kidneys are immature , and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions , which contain aluminum .
Research indicates that patients with impaired kidney function , including premature neonates , who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg / kg / day accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity .
Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration .
PRECAUTIONS Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
Discard unused portion .
Sodium replacement therapy should be guided primarily by the serum sodium level .
Caution should be exercised in administering sodium - containing solutions to patients with severe renal function impairment , cirrhosis , cardiac failure , or other edematous or sodium - retaining states , as well as in patients with oliguria or anuria .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of parenteral fluids , especially those containing sodium ions , to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Solutions containing acetate ions should be used with caution as excess administration may result in metabolic alkalosis .
Pregnancy : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with sodium acetate .
It is also not known whether sodium acetate can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Sodium acetate should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness have been established in the age groups infant to adolescent .
Geriatric Use : An evaluation of current literature revealed no clinical experience identifying differences in response between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Sodium ions are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Sodium overload can occur with intravenous infusion of excessive amounts of sodium - containing solutions .
See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overdosage , discontinue infusion containing sodium acetate immediately and institute corrective therapy as indicated to reduce elevated serum sodium levels , and restore acid - base balance if necessary .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq is administered intravenously only after dilution in a larger volume of fluid .
The dose and rate of administration are dependent upon the individual needs of the patient .
Serum sodium should be monitored as a guide to dosage .
Using aseptic technique , all or part of the contents of one or more vials may be added to other intravenous fluids to provide any desired number of milliequivalents ( mEq ) of sodium ( Na + ) with an equal number of acetate ( CH3COO − ) .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED Sodium Acetate Injection , USP 40 mEq ( 2 mEq / mL ) is supplied as follows : Unit of Sale Concentration Each NDC 0409 - 7299 - 73 40 mEq / 20 mL NDC 0409 - 7299 - 83 Tray Containing 25 Units ( 2 mEq / mL ) Single - dose Fliptop Vial Each vial is partially filled to provide air space for complete vacuum withdrawal of the contents into the intravenous container .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Distributed by Hospira , Inc .
Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] LAB - 0890 - 3 . 0 01 / 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Label 20 mL Single - dose SODIUM ACETATE Injection , USP Rx only 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED For Intravenous Use Dist .
by Hospira , Inc . , Lake Forest , IL 60045 USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 20 mL Vial Tray 20 mL Single - dose Rx only 25 Units / NDC 0409 - 7299 - 73 SODIUM ACETATE Injection , USP 40 mEq / 20 mL ( 2 mEq / mL ) For Intravenous Use CAUTION : MUST BE DILUTED Hospira [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
