1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % is an oxaborole antifungal indicated for the treatment of onychomycosis of the toenails due to Trichophyton rubrum or Trichophyton mentagrophytes .
Tavaborole topical solution is an oxaborole antifungal indicated for the topical treatment of onychomycosis of the toenails due to Trichophyton rubrum or Trichophyton mentagrophytes .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply tavaborole topical solution to affected toenails once daily for 48 weeks .
Tavaborole topical solution should be applied to the entire toenail surface and under the tip of each toenail being treated .
Tavaborole topical solution is for topical use only and not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply tavaborole topical solution to affected toenails once daily for 48 weeks .
( 2 ) • Tavaborole topical solution should be applied to the entire toenail surface and under the tip of each toenail being treated .
( 2 ) • For topical use only .
( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % is clear , colorless alcohol - based solution .
Each milliliter of solution contains 43 . 5 mg ( 5 % w / w ) of tavaborole .
Solution , 5 % .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None .
None .
( 4 ) 6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 1 % in subjects treated with tavaborole topical solution included application site exfoliation , ingrown toenail , application site erythema , and application site dermatitis .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Lupin Pharmaceutical Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
In two clinical trials , 791 subjects were treated with tavaborole topical solution .
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are listed below ( Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % - Treated Subjects and at a Greater Frequency than Observed with Vehicle Preferred Term Tavaborole topical solution N = 791 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 395 n ( % ) Application site exfoliation 21 ( 2 . 7 % ) 1 ( 0 . 3 % ) Ingrown toenail 20 ( 2 . 5 % ) 1 ( 0 . 3 % ) Application site erythema 13 ( 1 . 6 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) Application site dermatitis 10 ( 1 . 3 % ) 0 ( 0 % ) 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of tavaborole topical solution .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug product exposure : Hypersensitivity ; contact allergy 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary There are no available data on tavaborole topical solution use in pregnant women to inform a drug associated risk for major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In oral animal reproductive studies , administration of tavaborole during the period of organogenesis resulted in embryofetal toxicity and malformations at 570 times the Maximum Recommended Human Dose ( MRHD ) based on Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) comparisons in rats and embryofetal toxicity at 155 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons in rabbits .
Embryofetal toxicity was noted following dermal administration in rabbits up to 36 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons [ see Data ] .
The background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies carry some risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
The background risk of major birth defects in the U . S . general population is 2 % to 4 % and of miscarriage is 15 % to 20 % of clinically recognized pregnancies .
Data Animal Data Oral administration : In an oral embryofetal development study in rats , oral doses of 30 , 100 , and 300 mg / kg / day tavaborole were administered during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 to 19 ) to pregnant female rats .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , embryofetal toxicity ( increased embryofetal resorption and / or deaths ) and drug - related skeletal malformations and variations suggestive of delayed development ( i . e . , a delay in ossification ) were noted in fetuses at 300 mg / kg / day tavaborole [ 570 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ] .
No developmental toxicity was noted in rats at 100 mg / kg / day tavaborole ( 26 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
In an oral embryofetal development study in rabbits , oral doses of 15 , 50 , and 150 mg / kg / day tavaborole were administered during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 7 to 19 ) to pregnant female rabbits .
In the presence of maternal toxicity , excessive embryofetal mortality due to post - implantation loss was noted at 150 mg / kg / day tavaborole .
No drug related malformations were noted in rabbits at 150 mg / kg / day tavaborole ( 155 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No embryofetal mortality was noted in rabbits at 50 mg / kg / day tavaborole ( 16 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
In an oral pre - and post - natal development study in rats , oral doses of 15 , 60 , and 100 mg / kg / day tavaborole were administered from the beginning of organogenesis ( gestation day 6 ) through the end of lactation ( lactation day 20 ) .
In the presence of minimal maternal toxicity , no embryofetal toxicity or effects on postnatal development were noted at 100 mg / kg / day ( 29 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
Topical administration : In a dermal embryofetal development study in rabbits , topical doses of 1 % , 5 % , and 10 % tavaborole solution were administered during the period of organogenesis ( gestational days 6 to 28 ) to pregnant female rabbits .
A dose dependent increase in dermal irritation at the treatment site was noted at 5 % and 10 % tavaborole solution .
A decrease in fetal bodyweight was noted at 10 % tavaborole solution .
No drug related malformations were noted in rabbits at 10 % tavaborole solution ( 36 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
No embryofetal toxicity was noted in rabbits at 5 % tavaborole solution ( 26 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information available on the presence of tavaborole in human milk , the effects of the drug on the breastfed infant or the effects of the drug on milk production after topical application of tavaborole topical solution to women who are breastfeeding .
Tavaborole topical solution is systemically absorbed .
The lack of clinical data during lactation precludes a clear determination of the risk of tavaborole to a breastfed infant .
Therefore , the developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for tavaborole topical solution and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from tavaborole topical solution or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and efficacy of tavaborole topical solution were established in patients 6 years of age and older .
Use of tavaborole topical solution in these age groups is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled studies of tavaborole topical solution in adults with additional data from an open - label pharmacokinetics study of tavaborole in subjects 12 years to less than 17 years old [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In clinical trials of 791 subjects who were exposed to tavaborole topical solution , 19 % were 65 years of age and over , while 4 % were 75 years of age and over .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between these subjects and younger subjects , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
11 DESCRIPTION Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % contains tavaborole , 5 % ( w / w ) in a clear , colorless alcohol - based solution for topical use .
The active ingredient , tavaborole , is an oxaborole antifungal with the chemical name of 5 - fluoro - 1 , 3 - dihydro - 1 - hydroxy - 2 , 1 - benzoxaborole .
The chemical formula is C7H6BFO2 , the molecular weight is 151 . 93 and the structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Tavaborole is a white to off - white powder .
It is freely soluble in ethanol , methanol and acetone ; insoluble in water .
Each mL of tavaborole topical solution contains 43 . 5 mg of tavaborole .
Inactive ingredients include alcohol , edetate calcium disodium , and propylene glycol .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Tavaborole topical solution is an oxaborole antifungal [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 4 ) ] .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics At therapeutic doses , tavaborole topical solution is not expected to prolong QTc to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Tavaborole undergoes extensive metabolism .
Renal excretion is the major route of elimination of the metabolites .
In a clinical pharmacology trial of six healthy adult male volunteers who received a single topical application of 5 % 14 C - tavaborole solution , tavaborole conjugates and metabolites were shown to be excreted primarily in the urine .
The pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of tavaborole was investigated in 24 adult subjects with distal subungual onychomycosis involving at least 4 toenails ( including at least 1 great toenail ) following a single dose and a 2 - week daily topical application of 200 μL of a 5 % solution of tavaborole to all ten toenails and 2 mm of skin surrounding each toenail .
Steady state was achieved after 14 days of dosing .
After a single dose , the mean ( ± standard deviation ) peak concentration ( Cmax ) of tavaborole was 3 . 5 ± 2 . 3 ng / mL ( n = 21 with measurable concentrations , range 0 . 618 to 10 . 2 ng / mL , LLOQ = 0 . 5 ng / mL ) , and the mean AUClast ± SD was 44 . 4 ± 25 . 5 ng * hr / mL ( n = 21 ) .
After 2 weeks of daily dosing , the mean Cmax ± SD was 5 . 2 ± 3 . 5 ng / mL ( n = 24 , range 1 . 5 to 12 . 8 ng / mL ) , and the mean AUCτ ± SD was 75 . 8 ± 44 . 5 ng * hr / mL .
In another study PK of tavaborole was investigated in 22 subjects aged 12 years to less than 17 years with distal subungual onychomycosis involving at least 4 toenails ( including at least 1 great toenail with at least 20 % involvement ) following once daily application of 5 % solution of tavaborole to all ten toenails and 2 mm of skin surrounding each toenail for 29 days .
On Day 29 , the mean ± SD Cmax was 5 . 9 ± 4 . 9 ng / mL ( n = 21 with measurable concentrations , range 1 . 0 to 16 . 4 ng / mL , LLOQ = 0 . 5 ng / mL ) , and the mean ± SD AUC0 to 24 was 76 . 0 ± 62 . 5 ng * hr / mL .
Drug Interaction Studies In Vitro Studies In vitro studies have shown that tavaborole , at therapeutic concentrations , neither inhibits nor induces cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) enzymes .
12 . 4 Microbiology Mechanism of Action The mechanism of action of tavaborole is inhibition of fungal protein synthesis .
Tavaborole inhibits protein synthesis by inhibition of an aminoacyl - transfer ribonucleic acid ( tRNA ) synthetase ( AARS ) .
Activity in vitro and in clinical infections Tavaborole has been shown to be active against most strains of the following microorganisms , both in vitro and in clinical infections [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] : Trichophyton rubrum Trichophyton mentagrophytes Mechanism of Resistance Trichophyton mentagrophytes and Trichophyton rubrum strains from isolates collected in the clinical trials have not demonstrated resistance following repeated exposure to tavaborole .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In an oral carcinogenicity study in Sprague - Dawley rats , oral doses of 12 . 5 , 25 , and 50 mg / kg / day tavaborole were administered to rats once daily for 104 weeks .
No drug related neoplastic findings were noted at oral doses up to 50 mg / kg / day tavaborole ( 14 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
In a dermal carcinogenicity study in CD - 1 mice , topical doses of 5 % , 10 % , and 15 % tavaborole solution were administered to mice once daily for 104 weeks .
No drug related neoplastic findings were noted at topical doses up to 15 % tavaborole solution ( 89 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) .
Tavaborole revealed no evidence of mutagenic or clastogenic potential based on the results of two in vitro genotoxicity tests ( Ames assay and Human lymphocyte chromosomal aberration assay ) and one in vivo genotoxicity test ( rat micronucleus assay ) .
No effects on fertility were observed in male and female rats that were administered oral doses up to 300 mg / kg / day tavaborole ( 107 times the MRHD based on AUC comparisons ) prior to and during early pregnancy .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES The efficacy and safety of tavaborole topical solution was evaluated in two multicenter , double - blind , randomized , vehicle - controlled trials .
Tavaborole topical solution or vehicle was applied once daily for 48 weeks in subjects with 20 % to 60 % clinical involvement of the target toenail , without dermatophytomas or lunula ( matrix ) involvement .
A total of 1194 subjects ( 795 tavaborole topical solution , 399 Vehicle ) 18 to 88 years of age , 82 % male , 84 % white , participated in these two trials .
Efficacy assessments were made at 52 weeks following a 48 - week treatment period .
The Complete Cure efficacy endpoint included negative mycology ( negative KOH wet mount and negative fungal culture ) and Completely Clear Nail ( no clinical evidence of onychomycosis as evidenced by a normal toenail plate , no onycholysis , and no subungual hyperkeratosis ) .
Efficacy results from the two trials are summarized in Table 2 .
Table 2 : Efficacy Outcomes a . Complete cure defined as 0 % clinical involvement of the target toenail plus negative KOH and negative culture .
b . Complete or almost complete cure defined as ≤ 10 % affected target toenail area involved and negative KOH and culture .
c . Mycologic cure defined as negative KOH and negative culture .
Efficacy Variable Trial 1 Trial 2 Tavaborole topical solution N = 399 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 194 n ( % ) Tavaborole topical solution N = 396 n ( % ) Vehicle N = 205 n ( % ) Complete Curea 26 ( 6 . 5 % ) 1 ( 0 . 5 % ) 36 ( 9 . 1 % ) 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) Complete or Almost Complete Cureb 61 ( 15 . 3 % ) 3 ( 1 . 5 % ) 71 ( 17 . 9 % ) 8 ( 3 . 9 % ) Mycologic Curec 124 ( 31 . 1 % ) 14 ( 7 . 2 % ) 142 ( 35 . 9 % ) 25 ( 12 . 2 % ) 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % is clear , colorless alcohol - based solution free from foreign and visible particles packed in amber glass bottle with screw cap .
At initial use , the screw cap is replaced with the dropper assembly .
Tavaborole topical solution , 5 % is supplied in the following presentation : NDC 68180 - 958 - 02 : One 10 mL bottle containing 10 mL of solution with one glass pointed - tip dropper .
16 . 2 Storage and Handling Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
CAUTION : Flammable .
Keep away from heat and flame .
Discard product within 3 months after insertion of the dropper .
Keep bottle tightly closed .
Keep out of reach of children .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) The patient should be told the following : • The impact of nail polish or other cosmetic nail products on the efficacy of tavaborole topical solution has not been evaluated .
• Inform a health care professional if the area of application shows signs of persistent irritation ( for example , redness , itching , swelling ) .
• Product is flammable .
Avoid use near heat or open flame .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India January 2021 PATIENT INFORMATION Tavaborole ( ta - va - bor - ole ) Topical Solution , 5 % Important information : Tavaborole topical solutionis for use on toenails only .
Do not use tavaborole topical solution in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
What is Tavaborole topical solution ?
Tavaborole topical solution is a prescription medicine used to treat fungal infections of the toenails .
It is not known if tavaborole topical solution is safe and effective in children less than 6 years age .
Before using tavaborole topical solution , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if tavaborole can harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if tavaborole passes into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed your baby during your treatment with tavaborole topical solution .
Tellyour healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
How should I use Tavaborole topical solution ?
See the " Instructions for Use " at the end of this Patient Information for detailed information about the right way to use Tavaborole topical solution .
• Use tavaborole topical solution exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to use it .
• Apply tavaborole topical solution to your affected toenails 1 time each day .
• Tavaborole topical solution is used for 48 weeks .
• It is not known if the use of nail polish or other cosmetic nail products ( such as gel nails or acrylic nails ) will affect how tavaborole topical solution works .
Whatshould I avoid while using Tavaborole topical solution ?
• Tavaborole topical solution is flammable .
Avoid heat and flame while applying tavaborole topical solution to your toenail .
What are the possible side effects of Tavaborole topical solution ?
The most common side effects of tavaborole topical solution include : skin peeling , ingrown toenail , redness , itching , and swelling .
Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or does not go away .
Tavaborole topical solution may cause irritation at or near the application site .
Tell your healthcare provider if you develop irritation at the application site that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of tavaborole topical solution .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA 1088 .
How should I store Tavaborole topical solution ?
• Store tavaborole topical solution at room temperature , between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Tavaborole topical solution is flammable .
Keep away from heat and flame .
• Keep bottle tightly closed .
• Safely throw away tavaborole topical solution after 3 months of inserting the dropper .
KeepTavaborole topical solution and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of Tavaborole topical solution Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use tavaborole topical solution for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give tavaborole topical solution to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about tavaborole topical solution that is written for health professionals .
Whatare the ingredients in Tavaborole topical solution ?
Active ingredient : tavaborole Inactive ingredients : alcohol , propylene glycol , and edetate calcium disodium Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India For more information , go to www . lupinpharmaceuticals . com or call Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 399 - 2561 This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
January 2021 Instructions for Use Tavaborole ( ta - va - bor - ole ) Topical Solution , 5 % Important information : Tavaborole topical solution is for use on toenails only .
Do not use tavaborole topical solution in your mouth , eyes , or vagina .
Read the Instructions for Use that comes with tavaborole topical solution before you start using it .
Talk to your healthcare provider if you have any questions .
How to apply Tavaborole topical solution : Your toenails should be clean and dry before you apply Tavaborole topical solution .
Step 1 : Before you apply tavaborole topical solution to your affected toenail for the first time , remove the cap from the tavaborole topical solution bottle .
( See Figure A ) Throw away the cap .
Step 2 : Remove the wrapping from the dropper that comes with tavaborole topical solution .
Insert the dropper into the tavaborole topical solution bottle .
( See Figure B ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Only apply tavaborole topical solution using the provided dropper .
Do not use the dropper for any other purpose .
Step 3 : With the dropper inserted into the tavaborole topical solution , squeeze the bulb and then release the bulb to draw tavaborole topical solution into the dropper .
Step 4 : Remove the dropper from the bottle and hold the dropper tip over your affected toenail .
Step 5 : Slowly squeeze the bulb to apply tavaborole topical solution to your toenail .
Apply enough solution to completely cover your toenail .
You may need to use more than one drop .
( See Figure C ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Use the dropper tip to gently spread tavaborole topical solution to cover the entire toenail up to the edges of the toenail .
( See Figure D ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : In addition to the top of the toenail , also apply tavaborole topical solution under the tip of the toenail .
Use the dropper tip to gently spread tavaborole topical solution under the entire tip of the toenail .
( See Figures E and F ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Repeat Steps 3 to 7 to apply tavaborole topical solution to each affected toenail .
Step 9 : Let the tavaborole topical solution dry completely .
This may take a couple of minutes .
Avoid getting tavaborole topical solution on skin that is not surrounding the treated toenail ( s ) .
If tavaborole topical solution comes in contact with surrounding skin , use a tissue to wipe any excess solution from the surrounding skin .
Do not wipe tavaborole topical solution off of your toenails .
Step 10 : After applying tavaborole topical solution to your toenails , insert the dropper back into the bottle and screw it on tightly .
Step11 : Wash your hands with soap and water after applying tavaborole topical solution .
This Patient Information and Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Pithampur ( M . P . ) – 454 775 India January 2021 ID : 266795 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 68180 - 958 - 02 Tavaborole Topical Solution , 5 % For Topical Use Only Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use 10 mL Rx only Carton Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68180 - 958 - 02 Tavaborole Topical Solution , 5 % For Topical Use Only Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use 10 mL Rx only Container Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
