ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active ingredients : Ethylhexyl Methoxycinnamate 7 . 00 % , Titanium Dioxide 5 . 99 % , Zinc Oxide 4 . 91 % , Ethylhexyl Salicylate 4 . 50 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Bambusa Vulgaris Water , Diphenylsiloxy Phenyl Trimethicone , Cyclopentasiloxane , Glycerin , Cyclohexasiloxane , Synthetic Fluorphlogopite , Diisostearyl Malate , Methyl Methacrylate Crosspolymer , Pentylene Glycol , Cetyl PEG / PPG - 10 / 1 Dimethicone , Niacinamide , Butylene Glycol , Trimethylsiloxysilicate , Dipropylene Glycol , Mica ( CI 77019 ) , Magnesium Sulfate , Phenoxyethanol , Sorbitan Isostearate , Disteardimonium Hectorite , Aluminum Hydroxide , Stearic Acid , Dimethicone , Fragrance ( Parfum ) , Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Ultramarines ( CI 77007 ) , Tin Oxide ( CI 77861 ) , Ethylhexylglycerin , Adenosine , Hydrogenated Castor Oil Isostearate , Disodium EDTA , Triethoxycaprylylsilane , Iron Oxides ( CI 77491 ) , Biosaccharide Gum - 4 , Milk Lipids , Pearl Powder , Sucrose Polycottonseedate , Betula Platyphylla Japonica Juice , Water , Dimethicone / Vinyl Dimethicone Crosspolymer , Glyceryl Caprylate , Polyglutamic Acid PURPOSE Purpose : Sunscreen WARNINGS Warnings : 1 .
If any of the following symptoms occur when using the product , stop using immediately and consult a dermatologist .
a ) red spots , swelling , itchy rashes other skin irritations , etc . b ) if a ) occurs after applying and being exposed to sunlight .
2 .
Do not use on wounds , inflamed skin , itchy areas , or other infected areas .
3 .
Storage and handling : a ) must close cap after use .
b ) Keep out of reach of children .
c ) keep away from extreme heat , cold and direct sunlight .
d ) Avoid contact with eyes .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse thoroughly with water .
4 .
For external use only .
DESCRIPTION Uses : UV Protection / Whitening / Anti - wrinkle .
A cushion compact with ultra light texture that can easily create a radiant complexion .
Can be used as a makeup base and / or a highlighter .
Directions : 1 .
Gently soak the applicator puff on to mesh to use product .
2 .
Start from inner areas of the face and work outwards .
3 .
Softly swipe over the skin to spread evenly before applying the foundation .
4 .
To use as a highlighter , apply on desired areas such as brow area , nose , cheekbones , forehead and top of the chin .
5 .
To refill the product : Open outer cap , but close the inner cap and flip over the product .
While holding the product push down on the bottom sticker with both thumbs while having outer cap open .
Once the existing container is removed , replace it with a refill with the hinge set on the dipped area which is on the left hand side .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
