Active ingredient Purified water ( 99 . 05 % ) Purpose Eyewash Uses washes the eye to help relieve • • irritation • • discomfort • • burning • • stinging • • itching • by removing • • loose foreign material • • air pollutants ( smog or pollen ) • • chlorinated water Warnings For external use only Do not use • • if you have open wounds in or near the eyes , and get medical help right away • • if solution changes color or becomes cloudy When using this product • • remove contact lenses before using • • do not touch tip of container to any surface to avoid contamination • • replace cap after use Stop use and ask a doctor if • • you experience eye pain , changes in vision , continued redness or irritation of the eye • • condition worsens or persists Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions For use with nozzle applicator .
• • flush the affected eye ( s ) as needed • • control the rate of flow of solution by pressure on the bottle • • do not touch dropper tip to eye [ MULTIMEDIA ] When using an eye cup • • rinse the cup with Bausch + Lomb Advanced Eye Relief ® eye wash immediately before each use • • avoid contamination of the rim and inside surfaces of the cup • • fill the cup half full with Bausch + Lomb Advanced Eye Relief eye wash solution and apply the cup to the affected eye ( s ) , pressing tightly to prevent spillage • • tilt the head backward .
Open eyelids wide and rotate eyeball to thoroughly wash the eye • • rinse cup with clean water after each use • • replace cap after use [ MULTIMEDIA ] Other information • • store at 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) • • keep tightly closed • • does not contain thimerosal • • enclosed eyecup is sterile if packaging is intact • • use before expiration date marked on the carton or bottle Inactive ingredients boric acid , sodium borate and sodium chloride .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : benzalkonium chloride ( 0 . 01 % ) Questions or comments ?
[ phone icon ] Call : 1 - 800 - 553 - 5340 Package / Label Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NEW LOOK !
new formula !
BAUSCH + LOMB ADVANCED Eye Relief ® Eye Wash EYE IRRIGATING SOLUTION • • Cleans , refreshes , soothes • • For daily or emergency eye cleansing • • Sterile eye cup enclosed Contoured Cup Design [ icon ] STERILE 4 FL OZ ( 118 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ]
