WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE CNS stimulants , including AZSTARYS , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Warning and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
WARNING : ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• CNS stimulants , including AZSTARYS , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) • Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy ( 5 . 1 , 9 . 2 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE AZSTARYS is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years of age and older .
AZSTARYS is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in patients 6 years of age and older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years : Recommended starting dosage is 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg orally once daily in the morning .
Dosage may be increased to 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg daily or decreased to 26 . 1 mg / 5 . 2 mg daily after one week .
Maximum recommended dosage is 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 years : Recommended starting dosage is 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg orally once daily in the morning .
Increase the dosage after one week to 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg once daily .
( 2 . 2 ) • Administer with or without food .
( 2 . 3 ) • Swallow capsules whole or open and sprinkle onto applesauce or add to water .
( 2 . 3 ) • To avoid substitution errors and overdosage , do not substitute for other methylphenidate products on a milligram - per - milligram basis .
( 2 . 4 ) 2 . 1 Pretreatment Screening Prior to initiating treatment with AZSTARYS , assess for the presence of cardiac disease ( i . e . , perform a careful history , family history of sudden death or ventricular arrhythmia , and physical exam ) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy .
Maintain careful prescription records , educate patients about abuse , monitor for signs of abuse and overdose , and periodically re - evaluate the need for AZSTARYS use [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 ) ] .
2 . 2 Recommended Dosage Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years of age • The recommended starting dosage of AZSTARYS is 39 . 2 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 7 . 8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning .
• The dosage may be increased after one week to a dosage of 52 . 3 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 10 . 4 mg dexmethylphenidate per day , or decreased after one week to a dosage of 26 . 1 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 5 . 2 mg dexmethylphenidate per day , depending on response and tolerability .
• Maximum recommended dosage is 52 . 3 mg serdexmethylphendiate / 10 . 4 mg dexmethyphenidate once daily .
Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 years of age • The recommended starting dosage of AZSTARYS is 39 . 2 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 7 . 8 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily in the morning .
• Increase the dosage after one week to a dosage of 52 . 3 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 10 . 4 mg dexmethylphenidate per day .
• Maximum recommended dosage is 52 . 3 mg serdexmethylphenidate / 10 . 4 mg dexmethylphenidate once daily .
Pharmacological treatment of ADHD may be needed for extended periods .
Periodically re - evaluate the long - term use of AZSTARYS , and adjust dosage as needed .
2 . 3 Administration Information Administer AZSTARYS orally once daily in the morning with or without food [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
AZSTARYS capsules may be taken whole , or opened and the entire contents sprinkled into 50 mL of water or over 2 tablespoons of applesauce .
Consume all the drug / food mixture immediately or within 10 minutes of mixing ; do not store for future use [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 4 Switching from Other Methylphenidate Products If switching from other methylphenidate products , discontinue that treatment , and titrate with AZSTARYS using the titration schedule described above .
Do not substitute AZSTARYS for other methylphenidate products on a milligram - per - milligram basis because these products have different pharmacokinetic profiles from AZSTARYS and may have different methylphenidate base composition [ see Description ( 11 ) , Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 5 Dose Reduction and Discontinuation If paradoxical aggravation of symptoms or other adverse reactions occur ; the dosage should be reduced , or , if necessary , the drug should be discontinued .
AZSTARYS should be periodically discontinued to assess the pediatric patient ’ s condition .
If improvement is not observed after appropriate dosage adjustment over a one - month period , the drug should be discontinued .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS AZSTARYS capsules are available as : • 26 . 1 mg / 5 . 2 mg ( serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ) – blue cap / grey body , imprinted with " 286 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body • 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg ( serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ) – dark blue cap / grey body , imprinted with " 429 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body • 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg ( serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ) – orange cap / grey body , imprinted with " 5612 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body • Capsules ( serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ) : 26 . 1 mg / 5 . 2 mg , 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg , 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS AZSTARYS is contraindicated in patients : • with known hypersensitivity to serdexmethylphenidate , methylphenidate , or other components of AZSTARYS .
Bronchospasm , rash , and pruritus have been reported in patients who received AZSTARYS .
Hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients treated with other methylphenidate products [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
• receiving concomitant treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors ( MAOIs ) , or within 14 days following discontinuation of treatment with an MAOI , because of the risk of hypertensive crisis [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
• Known hypersensitivity to serdexmethylphenidate , methylphenidate , or product components .
( 4 ) • Concurrent treatment with a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) , or use of an MAOI within the preceding 14 days .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Serious Cardiovascular Events : Sudden death has been reported in association with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities or other serious heart problems .
In adults , sudden death , stroke , and myocardial infarction have been reported .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart arrhythmias , or coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 2 ) • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases : Monitor blood pressure and pulse .
Consider the benefits and risks in patients for whom an increase in blood pressure or heart rate would be problematic .
( 5 . 3 ) • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions : Use of stimulants may cause psychotic or manic symptoms in patients with no prior history , or exacerbation of symptoms in patients with pre - existing psychiatric illness .
Evaluate for bipolar disorder prior to AZSTARYS use .
( 5 . 4 ) • Priapism : Cases of painful and prolonged penile erections and priapism have been reported with methylphenidate products .
Immediate medical attention should be sought if signs or symptoms of prolonged penile erections or priapism are observed .
( 5 . 5 ) • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon : Stimulants used to treat ADHD are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
( 5 . 6 ) • Long - Term Suppression of Growth : Monitor height and weight at appropriate intervals in pediatric patients .
( 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Potential for Abuse and Dependence CNS stimulants , including AZSTARYS , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines , have a high potential for abuse and dependence .
Assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing , and monitor for signs of abuse and dependence while on therapy [ see Boxed Warning and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 2 Serious Cardiovascular Reactions Sudden death , stroke and myocardial infarction have been reported in adults with CNS stimulant treatment at recommended doses .
Sudden death has been reported in pediatric patients with structural cardiac abnormalities and other serious heart problems taking CNS stimulants at recommended doses for ADHD .
Avoid use in patients with known structural cardiac abnormalities , cardiomyopathy , serious heart rhythm abnormalities , coronary artery disease , and other serious heart problems .
Further evaluate patients who develop exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or arrhythmias during AZSTARYS treatment .
5 . 3 Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases CNS stimulants cause an increase in blood pressure ( mean increase approximately 2 to 4 mmHg ) and heart rate ( mean increase approximately 3 to 6 beats per minute ) .
Individuals may have larger increases .
Monitor all patients for hypertension and tachycardia .
5 . 4 Psychiatric Adverse Reactions Exacerbation of Pre - Existing Psychosis CNS stimulants may exacerbate symptoms of behavior disturbance and thought disorder in patients with a pre - existing psychotic disorder .
Induction of a Manic Episode in Patients with Bipolar Disorder CNS stimulants may induce a manic or mixed mood episode in patients .
Prior to initiating treatment , screen patients for risk factors for developing a manic episode ( e . g . , comorbid or history of depressive symptoms or a family history of suicide , bipolar disorder , or depression ) .
New Psychotic or Manic Symptoms CNS stimulants , at recommended doses , may cause psychotic or manic symptoms ( e . g . , hallucinations , delusional thinking , or mania ) in patients without a prior history of psychotic illness or mania .
If such symptoms occur , consider discontinuing AZSTARYS .
In a pooled analysis of multiple short - term , placebo - controlled studies of CNS stimulants , psychotic or manic symptoms occurred in approximately 0 . 1 % of CNS stimulant - treated patients , compared to 0 in placebo - treated patients .
5 . 5 Priapism Prolonged and painful erections , sometimes requiring surgical intervention , have been reported with methylphenidate products , in both pediatric and adult patients .
Priapism was not reported with drug initiation but developed after some time on the drug , often subsequent to an increase in dose .
Priapism has also appeared during a period of drug withdrawal ( drug holidays or during discontinuation ) .
Patients who develop abnormally sustained or frequent and painful erections should seek immediate medical attention .
5 . 6 Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon CNS stimulants used to treat ADHD , including AZSTARYS , are associated with peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon .
Signs and symptoms are usually intermittent and mild ; however , very rare sequelae include digital ulceration and / or soft tissue breakdown .
Effects of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , were observed in post - marketing reports at different times and at therapeutic doses in all age groups throughout the course of treatment .
Signs and symptoms generally improve after reduction in dose or discontinuation of drug .
Careful observation for digital changes is necessary during treatment with ADHD stimulants .
Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients .
5 . 7 Long - Term Suppression of Growth CNS stimulants have been associated with weight loss and slowing of growth rate in pediatric patients .
In a long - term , open - label safety study with AZSTARYS conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with ADHD , there was a lower than expected increase in height and weight compared to pediatric patients of the same age and sex , on average [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Closely monitor growth ( weight and height ) in pediatric patients treated with CNS stimulants , including AZSTARYS .
Patients who are not growing or gaining height or weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling : • Abuse and Dependence [ see Boxed Warning , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , and Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) ] • Known hypersensitivity to methylphenidate or other ingredients of AZSTARYS [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Hypertensive Crisis with Concomitant Use of Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] • Serious Cardiovascular Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] • Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] • Psychiatric Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Peripheral Vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s Phenomenon [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] • Long - Term Suppression of Growth [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] Based on accumulated data from other methylphenidate products , the most common ( > 5 % and twice the rate of placebo ) adverse reactions are appetite decreased , insomnia , nausea , vomiting , dyspepsia , abdominal pain , weight decreased , anxiety , dizziness , irritability , affect lability , tachycardia , and blood pressure increased .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Corium , Inc . at 1 - 800 - 910 - 8432 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
Clinical Trials Experience with Other Methylphenidate Products in Pediatric Patients and Adults with ADHD Commonly reported ( ≥ 5 % of the methylphenidate group and at least twice the rate of the placebo group ) adverse reactions from placebo - controlled trials of methylphenidate products include : decreased appetite , decreased weight , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , vomiting , insomnia , anxiety , affect lability , irritability , dizziness , increased blood pressure , and tachycardia .
Clinical Trials Experience with AZSTARYS in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD Short - Term Study A short - term study conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with ADHD was comprised of a 3 - week , open - label , dose optimization phase in which all patients received AZSTARYS ( n = 155 ) , followed by a 1 - week , double - blind , controlled phase in which patients were randomized to continue AZSTARYS ( n = 74 ) or switch to placebo ( n = 76 ) .
Because of the study design , the reported adverse reaction rates cannot be used to predict the rates that may be expected in clinical practice .
Long - Term Study A long - term , open - label safety study was conducted in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age with ADHD who either completed the short - term study or were de novo patients .
This study was comprised of a 3 - week dose optimization phase for patients not recently treated with AZSTARYS followed by a 12 - month treatment phase for all patients during which 238 patients received open - label AZSTARYS and had evaluable safety data .
A total of 154 patients were treated for 12 months .
Because of the open - label , uncontrolled design of this study , the reported adverse reaction rates cannot be assessed in terms of a causal relationship to AZSTARYS treatment .
To adjust for normal growth , z - scores were derived ( measured in standard deviations [ SD ] ) ; z - scores normalize for the natural growth of children and adolescents by comparisons to age - and sex - matched population standards .
A z - score change less than 0 . 5 SD is considered not clinically significant .
In this study , the mean increase in weight from baseline to Month 12 was 3 . 4 kg among study completers .
The mean change in z - score from baseline to Month 12 was - 0 . 20 , indicating a lower than expected increase in body weight compared to children of the same age and sex , on average .
Most of the weight z - score decline occurred in the first 4 months of treatment .
The mean increase in height from baseline to Month 12 was 4 . 9 cm among completers .
Using the same z - score analysis for height , the mean change in z - score from baseline to Month 12 was - 0 . 21 , indicating a lower than expected increase in height compared to pediatric patients of the same age and sex , on average .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of methylphenidate products .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
These adverse reactions are as follows : Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : pancytopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocytopenic purpura Cardiac Disorders : angina pectoris , bradycardia , extrasystole , supraventricular tachycardia , ventricular extrasystole , palpitations , increased heart rate Eye Disorders : diplopia , mydriasis , visual impairment , blurred vision General Disorders : chest pain , chest discomfort , hyperpyrexia Gastrointestinal Disorders : dry mouth Hepatobiliary disorders : hepatocellular injury , acute hepatic failure Immune System Disorders : hypersensitivity reactions such as angioedema , anaphylactic reactions , auricular swelling , bullous conditions , exfoliative conditions , urticarias , pruritus NEC , rashes , eruptions , and exanthemas NEC Investigations : alkaline phosphatase increased , bilirubin increased , hepatic enzyme increased , platelet count decreased , white blood cell count abnormal Musculoskeletal , Connective Tissue and Bone Disorders : arthralgia , myalgia , muscle twitching , rhabdomyolysis , muscle cramps Nervous System Disorders : convulsion , grand mal convulsion , dyskinesia , serotonin syndrome in combination with serotonergic drugs , nervousness , headache , tremor , drowsiness , vertigo Psychiatric Disorders : disorientation , libido changes , hallucination , hallucination auditory , hallucination visual , logorrhea , mania , restlessness , agitation Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : alopecia , erythema , hyperhidrosis Urogenital System : priapism Vascular Disorders : Raynaud ' s phenomenon 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Antihypertensive Drugs : Monitor blood pressure .
Adjust dosage of antihypertensive drug as needed .
( 7 . 1 ) • Halogenated Anesthetics : Avoid use of AZSTARYS on the day of surgery if halogenated anesthetics will be used .
( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Clinically Important Interactions with AZSTARYS Table 1 presents clinically important drug interactions with AZSTARYS .
Table 1 : Clinically Important Drug Interactions with AZSTARYSMonoamine Oxidase Inhibitors ( MAOIs ) Clinical Impact Concomitant use of MAOIs and CNS stimulants , including AZSTARYS , can cause hypertensive crisis .
Potential outcomes include death , stroke , myocardial infarction , aortic dissection , ophthalmological complications , eclampsia , pulmonary edema , and renal failure [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Intervention Do not administer AZSTARYS concomitantly with MAOIs or within 14 days after discontinuing MAOI treatment [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] Examples Selegiline , tranylcypromine , isocarboxazid , phenelzine , linezolid , methylene blue Antihypertensive Drugs Clinical Impact AZSTARYS may decrease the effectiveness of drugs used to treat hypertension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Intervention Monitor blood pressure and adjust the dosage of the antihypertensive drug , as needed .
Examples Potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics , calcium channel blockers , angiotensin - converting - enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , angiotensin II receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , beta blockers , centrally acting alpha - 2 receptor agonists .
Halogenated Anesthetics Clinical Impact Concomitant use of halogenated anesthetics and AZSTARYS may increase the risk of sudden blood pressure and heart rate increase during surgery .
Intervention Avoid use of AZSTARYS in patients being treated with anesthetics on the day of surgery .
Examples Halothane , isoflurane , enflurane , desflurane , sevoflurane .
Risperidone Clinical Impact Combined use of methylphenidate with risperidone when there is a change , whether an increase or decrease , in dosage of either or both medications , may increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms ( EPS ) .
Intervention Monitor for signs of EPS .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Exposure Registry There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to ADHD medications , including AZSTARYS , during pregnancy .
Healthcare providers are encouraged to register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
Risk Summary There are no available data on AZSTARYS use in pregnant women to evaluate for a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or other adverse maternal or fetal outcomes ; however , AZSTARYS contains dexmethylphenidate and serdexmethylphenidate , a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate .
Dexmethylphenidate is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate .
Published studies and postmarketing reports on methylphenidate use during pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
There may be risks to the fetus associated with the use of CNS stimulants use during pregnancy ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Embryo - fetal development studies in rats showed delayed fetal skeletal ossification at doses up to 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 mg / day dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to adults based on plasma levels .
A decrease in pup weight in males was observed in a pre - and post - natal development study with oral administration of dexmethylphenidate to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses 3 times the MRHD of 40 mg / day dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to adults based on plasma levels ( see Data ) .
No evidence of developmental effects were found in an embryo - fetal development study with oral administration of serdexmethylphenidate to rabbits during organogenesis at doses up to approximately 49 times the MRHD of 52 mg / day serdexmethylphenidate given to adults based on plasma levels ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions CNS stimulants , such as AZSTARYS , can cause vasoconstriction and thereby decrease placental perfusion .
No fetal and / or neonatal adverse reactions have been reported with the use of therapeutic doses of methylphenidate during pregnancy ; however , premature delivery and low birth weight infants have been reported in amphetamine - dependent mothers .
Data Animal Data In embryo - fetal development studies conducted in rats and rabbits , dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride was administered orally at doses of up to 20 and 100 mg / kg / day , respectively , during the period of organogenesis .
No evidence of malformations was found in either the rat or rabbit study ; however , delayed fetal skeletal ossification was observed at the highest dose level in rats .
When dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride was administered to rats throughout pregnancy and lactation at doses of up to 20 mg / kg / day , post - weaning body weight gain was decreased in male offspring at the highest dose , but no other effects on postnatal development were observed .
At the highest doses tested , plasma levels [ area under the curves ( AUCs ) ] of dexmethylphenidate in pregnant rats and rabbits were approximately 3 and 1 times , respectively , those in adults dosed with 40 mg / day dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride .
Racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride has been shown to cause malformations ( increased incidence of fetal spina bifida ) in rabbits when given in doses of 200 mg / kg / day throughout organogenesis .
No evidence of developmental effects were found in an embryo - fetal development study with oral administration of serdexmethylphenidate in rabbits during organogenesis at doses of up to 374 mg / kg / day .
At the highest dose tested , the plasma level [ area under the curve ( AUC ) ] of serdexmethylphenidate in pregnant rabbits was approximately 49 times that in adults dosed with 52 mg / day serdexmethylphenidate .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no available data on the presence of serdexmethylphenidate in human milk , effects on the breastfed infant , or effects on milk production .
Dexmethylphenidate is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic methylphenidate .
Limited published literature , based on milk sampling from seven mothers reports that methylphenidate is present in human milk , which resulted in infant doses of 0 . 16 % to 0 . 7 % of the maternal weight - adjusted dosage and a milk / plasma ratio ranging between 1 . 1 and 2 . 7 .
There are no reports of adverse effects on the breastfed infant and no effects on milk production .
Long - term neurodevelopmental effects on infants from stimulant exposure are unknown .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for AZSTARYS and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from AZSTARYS or from the underlying maternal condition .
Clinical Considerations Monitor breastfeeding infants for adverse reactions , such as agitation , anorexia , and reduced weight gain .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of AZSTARYS have been established in pediatric patients ages 6 to 17 years of age for the treatment of ADHD .
Use of AZSTARYS in patients 6 to 12 years of age is supported by a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group trial in 155 pediatric patients with ADHD and a 12 - month open - label long term safety trial in 238 patients [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) , Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Use of AZSTARYS in pediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age is supported by additional pharmacokinetics analysis showing similar plasma concentration - time profiles of dexmethylphenidate in adolescents and adults after administration of the same dose of AZSTARYS [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The long - term efficacy of methylphenidate in pediatric patients has not been established .
The safety and effectiveness of AZSTARYS in pediatric patients less than 6 years have not been established .
Long Term Suppression of Growth Growth should be monitored during treatment with stimulants , including AZSTARYS .
Pediatric patients who are not growing or gaining weight as expected may need to have their treatment interrupted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Juvenile Animal Toxicity Data Rats treated with racemic methylphenidate early in the postnatal period through sexual maturation demonstrated a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity in adulthood .
A deficit in acquisition of a specific learning task was observed in females only .
The doses at which these findings were observed are at least 3 times the MRHD of 40 mg / day dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to children on a mg / m2 basis .
In a study conducted in young rats , racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride was administered orally at doses of up to 100 mg / kg / day for 9 weeks , starting early in the postnatal period ( postnatal Day 7 ) and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal Week 10 ) .
When these animals were tested as adults ( postnatal Weeks 13 to 14 ) , decreased spontaneous locomotor activity was observed in males and females previously treated with 50 mg / kg / day racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride [ approximately 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to children on a mg / m2 basis ] or greater , and a deficit in the acquisition of a specific learning task was seen in females exposed to the highest dose ( 6 times the MRHD of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The no effect level for juvenile neurobehavioral development in rats was 5 mg / kg / day racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride ( less than the MRHD of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) .
The clinical significance of the long - term behavioral effects observed in rats is unknown .
Serdexmethylphenidate was administered orally to juvenile rabbits at doses up to 280 mg / kg / day ( approximately 50 times the MRHD of 52 mg / day serdexmethylphenidate given to children on a mg / m2 basis ) , respectively , for 6 months , starting at postnatal Day 28 and continuing through sexual maturity ( postnatal Day 196 ) .
No adverse findings were observed at the highest dose of serdexmethylphenidate .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical trials of AZSTARYS did not include any patients aged 65 years and over .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 1 Controlled Substance AZSTARYS contains dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride , a Schedule II controlled substance , and serdexmethylphenidate , a Schedule IV controlled substance .
9 . 2 Abuse CNS stimulants including AZSTARYS , other methylphenidate - containing products , and amphetamines have a high potential for abuse .
Abuse is the intentional non - therapeutic use of a drug , even once , to achieve a desired psychological or physiological effect .
Drug addiction is a cluster of behavioral , cognitive , and physiological phenomena that may include a strong desire to take the drug , difficulties in controlling drug use ( e . g . , continuing drug use despite harmful consequences , giving a higher priority to drug use than other activities and obligations ) , and possible tolerance or physical dependence .
Both abuse and misuse may lead to addiction , and some individuals may develop addiction even when taking AZSTARYS as prescribed .
Signs and symptoms of CNS stimulant abuse include increased heart rate , respiratory rate , blood pressure , and / or sweating , dilated pupils , hyperactivity , restlessness , insomnia , decreased appetite , loss of coordination , tremors , flushed skin , vomiting , and / or abdominal pain .
Anxiety , psychosis , hostility , aggression , suicidal or homicidal ideation have also been observed .
Individuals who abuse CNS stimulants may chew , snort , inject , or use other unapproved routes of administration which can result in overdose and death [ see Overdosage ( 10 ) ] .
To reduce the abuse of AZSTARYS , assess the risk of abuse prior to prescribing .
After prescribing , keep careful prescription records , educate patients and their families about abuse and on proper storage and disposal of CNS stimulants , monitor for signs of abuse while on therapy , and re - evaluate the need for AZSTARYS use .
9 . 3 Dependence Physical Dependence AZSTARYS may produce physical dependence from continued therapy .
Physical dependence is a state of adaptation manifested by a withdrawal syndrome produced by abrupt cessation , rapid dose reduction , or administration of an antagonist .
Withdrawal symptoms after abrupt cessation following prolonged high - dosage administration of CNS stimulants include dysphoric mood ; depression ; fatigue ; vivid , unpleasant dreams ; insomnia or hypersomnia ; increased appetite ; and psychomotor retardation or agitation .
Tolerance AZSTARYS may produce tolerance from continued therapy .
Tolerance is a state of adaptation in which exposure to a drug results in a reduction of the drug ' s desired and / or undesired effects over time .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Signs and Symptoms Signs and symptoms of acute methylphenidate overdose , resulting principally from overstimulation of the CNS and from excessive sympathomimetic effects , may include the following : nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , restlessness , anxiety , agitation , tremors , hyperreflexia , muscle twitching , convulsions ( may be followed by coma ) , euphoria , confusion , hallucinations , delirium , sweating , flushing , headache , hyperpyrexia , tachycardia , palpitations , cardiac arrhythmias , hypertension , hypotension , tachypnea , mydriasis , dryness of mucous membranes , and rhabdomyolysis .
10 . 2 Management of Overdose Consult with a Certified Poison Control Center ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) for up - to - date guidance and advice on the management of overdosage with methylphenidate .
Provide supportive care , including close medical supervision and monitoring .
Treatment should consist of those general measures employed in the management of overdosage with any drug .
Consider the possibility of multiple drug overdosages .
Ensure an adequate airway , oxygenation , and ventilation .
Monitor cardiac rhythm and vital signs .
Use supportive and symptomatic measures .
11 DESCRIPTION AZSTARYS ( serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate ) capsules contain dexmethylphenidate , a CNS stimulant , and serdexmethylphenidate , a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate .
AZSTARYS capsules are intended for oral administration and each capsule contains a fixed molar ratio of 30 % dexmethylphenidate and 70 % serdexmethylphenidate .
AZSTARYS contains 26 . 1 / 5 . 2 , 39 . 2 / 7 . 8 , or 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg of serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ( equivalent to 28 / 6 , 42 / 9 , or 56 / 12 mg of serdexmethylphenidate chloride / dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride , respectively .
The combined molar dose of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate in each dosage strength of AZSTARYS is equivalent to 20 , 30 , or 40 mg dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride , respectively ( equivalent to 17 . 3 , 25 . 9 or 34 . 6 mg dexmethylphenidate free base , respectively ) .
The chemical name of serdexmethylphenidate chloride is 3 - ( ( ( 1 S ) - 1 - carboxy - 2 - hydroxyethyl ) carbamoyl ) - 1 - ( ( ( ( 2 R ) - 2 - ( 2 - ( 1 R ) - methoxy - 2 - oxo - 1 - phenylethyl ) piperidine - 1 - carbonyl ) oxy ) methyl ) pyridinium chloride .
Its molecular formula is C25H30N3O8 + • Cl - , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Serdexmethylphenidate chloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water , soluble in methanol , and slightly soluble in alcohol and acetone .
Its molecular weight is 535 . 98 g / mol .
Dexmethylphenidate is the d - threo enantiomer of racemic d , l - methylphenidate hydrochloride .
The chemical name of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is methyl ( R ) - 2 - phenyl - 2 - ( ( R ) - piperidin - 2 - yl ) acetate hydrochloride .
Its molecular formula is C14H19NO2 • HCl , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride is a white to off - white powder .
Its solutions are acid to litmus .
It is freely soluble in water and in methanol , soluble in alcohol , and slightly soluble in chloroform and in acetone .
Its molecular weight is 269 . 77 g / mol .
Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , and talc .
Each strength capsule also contains colorant ingredients in the capsule shell as follows : • 26 . 1 / 5 . 2 mg : Back Iron Oxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 , Titanium Dioxide • 39 . 2 / 7 . 8 mg : Black Iron Oxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 , FD & C Red No . 40 , Titanium Dioxide • 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg : Black Iron Oxide , FD & C Red No . 40 , FD & C Yellow No . 6 , Titanium Dioxide [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate .
Dexmethylphenidate HCl is a central nervous system ( CNS ) stimulant .
The mode of therapeutic action in ADHD is not known .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Dexmethylphenidate Dexmethylphenidate is the more pharmacologically active d - enantiomer of racemic d , l - methylphenidate .
Methylphenidate blocks the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine into the presynaptic neuron and increase the release of these monoamines into the extraneuronal space .
In vitro studies with serdexmethylphenidate showed little or no binding of the prodrug to monoaminergic reuptake transporters .
Cardiac Electrophysiology The effect of serdexmethylphenidate on QTc interval was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , human abuse potential study ( intranasal administration ) in 46 healthy subjects .
At a mean concentration 40 times the Cmax for the highest dose of AZSTARYS ( 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg base equivalent ) , serdexmethylphenidate does not prolong the QT interval to any clinically relevant extent .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate .
Following a single dose administration of 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg AZSTARYS and 40 mg of an dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( ER ) capsule in healthy volunteers under fasted conditions : • The mean peak plasma concentration ( Cmax ) of dexmethylphenidate was 14 . 0 ng / mL and 28 . 2 ng / mL , respectively ; • The mean area under concentration curve ( AUC ) of dexmethylphenidate was 186 hour * ng / mL and 248 hour * ng / mL , respectively .
The plasma PK profiles of dexmethylphenidate following administration of AZSTARYS or dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release ( ER ) capsule are presented in Figure 1 .
Figure 1 : Mean Dexmethylphenidate Plasma Concentration - Time Profiles After A Single Dose Administration of AZSTARYS or Dexmethylphenidate Hydrochloride Extended - Release ( ER ) Capsule in Healthy Adults Under Fasted Conditions [ MULTIMEDIA ] Approximate linear PK was demonstrated for dexmethylphenidate following single dose administration of AZSTARYS in the dose range of 26 . 1 mg / 5 . 2 mg to 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg .
Steady state of dexmethylphenidate was approached after the third once - daily dose .
At steady - state , dexmethylphenidate mean exposures ( Cmax and AUC0 - 24 h ) were approximately 37 % higher relative to a single - dose administration of AZSTARYS .
No accumulation of serdexmethylphenidate was observed after once - daily administration of AZSTARYS .
The mean relative exposure of serdexmethylphenidate to dexmethylphenidate based on molar concentrations for Cmax , Cmin , and AUC0 - 24 hr was about 101 % , 8 . 5 % , and 55 . 7 % , respectively , following multiple once - daily oral dosing under fasted conditions .
Absorption Cross - study calculation estimated an absolute oral bioavailability for serdexmethylphenidate of less than 3 % .
The median time to reach Cmax of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate ( Tmax ) is about 2 hours following a single dose administration of AZSTARYS under fasted conditions .
Following oral administration of serdexmethylphenidate single moiety alone , dexmethylphenidate Tmax is reached at about 8 hours post dose .
Effect of Food No clinically meaningful differences in the exposure of dexmethylphenidate were observed when administered after an overnight fast , with a high - fat , high - caloric meal , or sprinkled onto applesauce or water .
The median time to peak plasma concentration ( Tmax ) was lengthened from 2 to 4 - 4 . 5 hours in the presence of food .
Distribution Plasma protein binding of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate is approximately 56 % and 47 % , respectively , at 5 µM ( about 60 - fold higher than the therapeutic concentrations at the highest recommended dose ) .
The mean apparent volume of distribution for serdexmethylphenidate was about 29 . 3 L / kg after AZSTARYS administration .
Dexmethylphenidate shows a mean volume of distribution of 2 . 65 L / kg after intravenous administration .
Elimination The mean plasma terminal elimination half - life of serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate in healthy adult subjects was about 5 . 7 hours and 11 . 7 hours , respectively , following a single dose of 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg AZSTARYS .
The mean apparent clearance for serdexmethylphenidate was about 3 . 6 L / hr / kg after AZSTARYS administration .
Dexmethylphenidate was eliminated with a mean clearance of 0 . 40 L / hr / kg after intravenous administration .
Metabolism Serdexmethylphenidate is a prodrug of dexmethylphenidate and is likely converted to dexmethylphenidate mainly in the lower gastrointestinal tract .
Enzymes involved in the conversion process are not identified .
Dexmethylphenidate is metabolized primarily via de - esterification to d - α - phenyl - piperidine acetic acid ( also known as d - ritalinic acid ) .
Ritalinic acid has little or no pharmacological activity .
There is no in vivo interconversion to the l - threo - enantiomer observed .
Excretion After oral dosing of radiolabeled serdexmethylphenidate in humans , about 62 % and 37 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine and feces , respectively .
Metabolite ritalinic acid accounted for approximately 63 % of the total recovered dose in urine and feces .
About 0 . 4 % and 11 % of the dose was excreted as unchanged serdexmethylphenidate in the urine and feces , respectively .
After oral dosing of radiolabeled racemic methylphenidate in humans , about 90 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine .
The main urinary metabolite of racemic d , l - methylphenidate was d , l - ritalinic acid , accountable for approximately 80 % of the dose .
Urinary excretion of unchanged methylphenidate accounted for 0 . 5 % of an intravenous dose .
Specific Populations Sex No significant pharmacokinetic differences based on sex have been observed for AZSTARYS .
Race There is insufficient experience with the use of AZSTARYS to detect ethnic variations in pharmacokinetics .
Age The shapes of the plasma concentration time profiles for dexmethylphenidate were similar in pediatric patients ( 6 to 17 years of age ) with ADHD and healthy adults .
After the same dose administration of AZSTARYS , dexmethylphenidate exposure in pediatric patients ( 13 to 17 years of age ) and adults was about half of that in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age .
Plasma concentrations of dexmethylphenidate when adjusted for dose and body weight were similar across all age groups .
Renal Impairment There is no experience with the use of AZSTARYS in patients with renal impairment .
Since renal clearance is not an important route of serdexmethylphenidate or methylphenidate elimination , renal impairment is expected to have little effect on the pharmacokinetics of AZSTARYS .
Hepatic Impairment There is no experience with the use of AZSTARYS in patients with hepatic impairment .
Drug Interaction Studies Clinical Studies CYP2D6 substrate : No clinically significant differences in desipramine ( CYP2D6 substrate ) were observed when coadministered with methylphenidate .
In Vitro Studies Alcohol : No clinically significant differences in the rate or amount of release of either serdexmethylphenidate or methylphenidate were observed with alcohol concentrations of 5 % and 40 % .
Cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) enzymes : Serdexmethylphenidate and methylphenidate do not appear to be substrates , inducers or inhibitors of CYP1A2 , 2C8 , 2C9 , 2C19 , 2D6 , 2E1 or 3 A .
Transporters : Serdexmethylphenidate does not appear to be a substrate or inhibitor of P - gp , BCRP , OATP1B1 / 3 , OAT1 / 3 , OCT2 , or MATE1 / 2 - K .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Lifetime studies to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of serdexmethylphenidate have not been conducted .
Lifetime carcinogenicity studies have not been carried out with dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride .
In a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in B6C3F1 mice , racemic methylphenidate caused an increase in hepatocellular adenomas , and in males only , an increase in hepatoblastomas was seen at a daily dose of approximately 60 mg / kg / day .
This dose is approximately 4 times the MRHD of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
Hepatoblastoma is a relatively rare rodent malignant tumor type .
There was no increase in total malignant hepatic tumors .
The mouse strain used is sensitive to the development of hepatic tumors , and the significance of these results to humans is unknown .
Racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride did not cause any increase in tumors in a lifetime carcinogenicity study carried out in F344 rats ; the highest dose used was approximately 45 mg / kg / day , which is approximately 5 times the MRHD of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
In a 24 - week carcinogenicity study with racemic methylphenidate in the transgenic mouse strain p53 + / - , which is sensitive to genotoxic carcinogens , there was no evidence of carcinogenicity .
Male and female mice were fed diets containing the same concentrations as in the lifetime carcinogenicity study ; the high - dose group was exposed to 60 to 74 mg / kg / day of racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride .
Mutagenesis Serdexmethylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay , in the in vitro mammalian cell micronucleus assay using human peripheral blood lymphocytes , in the in vivo rat bone barrow micronucleus assay , or in the in vivo rat alkaline comet assay .
Dexmethylphenidate was not mutagenic in the in vitro Ames reverse mutation assay , in the in vitro mouse lymphoma cell forward mutation assay , or in the in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus test .
In an in vitro assay using cultured Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells treated with racemic methylphenidate , sister chromatid exchanges and chromosome aberrations were increased , indicative of a weak clastogenic response .
Impairment of Fertility Racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride did not impair fertility in male or female mice that were fed diets containing the drug in an 18 - week continuous breeding study .
The study was conducted at doses of up to 160 mg / kg / day , approximately 10 - times the MRHD of 40 mg of dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride on a mg / m2 basis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Pediatric Patients 6 to 12 years of age with ADHD The efficacy of AZSTARYS for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age was evaluated in a randomized , double - blind , placebo - controlled , parallel group , analog classroom study ( Study 1 ; NCT # 03292952 ) .
That study was conducted in 150 pediatric patients 6 to 12 years of age who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , 5 th edition ( DSM - 5 ) criteria for a primary diagnosis of ADHD ( combined , inattentive , or hyperactive / impulsive presentation ) confirmed by the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview for Children and Adolescents ( MINI - KID ) .
Following washout of previous ADHD medication , subjects entered an open - label dose - optimization period ( 3 weeks ) with an initial dosage of 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg once daily in the morning .
The dose could be titrated on a weekly basis to either 26 . 1 mg / 5 . 2 mg , 39 . 2 mg / 7 . 8 mg , or 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg , until an optimal dose or the maximum dosage of 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg / day was reached .
At the end of optimization period , subjects were randomly assigned into a 1 - week parallel group treatment period to receive either the individually optimized dose of AZSTARYS ( mean dose of 45 . 6 mg / 9 . 0 mg ) or placebo .
At the end of the 1 - week treatment period , raters evaluated the attention and behavior of the subjects in a laboratory classroom setting over a period of 13 hours using the Swanson , Kotkin , Agler , M - Flynn , and Pelham ( SKAMP ) rating scale .
SKAMP is a validated 13 - item teacher - rated scale that assesses manifestations of ADHD in a classroom setting .
On this day , the dose was administered in the morning immediately after breakfast .
The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change from baseline ( pre - dose at randomization visit ) of the SKAMP - Combined scores averaged across the test day ( not including baseline score ) , with assessments conducted at 0 . 5 , 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 10 , 12 , and 13 hours post - dose .
The mean change from baseline in the SKAMP - Combined scores , averaged across the test day , was statistically significantly lower ( indicating improvement ) with AZSTARYS compared to placebo ( Table 2 ) .
Table 2 : Primary Efficacy Measure : SKAMP - Combined Scores Averaged Over Classroom Day in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 12 years ) with ADHDSD : standard deviation ; SE : standard error ; LS Mean : least - squares mean ; CI : confidence interval .
* Baseline score assessed at pre - dose on the practice classroom day / randomization visit after 2 days of active drug washout .
† Classroom day least - squares mean change from baseline over hours 0 . 5 .
1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 10 , 12 , and 13 .
‡ Difference ( active drug minus placebo ) in least - squares mean change from baseline .
Study Number Treatment Group N Mean Baseline Score * ( SD ) LS Mean Change from Baseline † ( SE ) Placebo - subtracted Difference ‡ ( 95 % CI ) Study 1 AZSTARYS ( 26 . 1 / 5 . 2 , 39 . 2 / 7 . 8 , 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg / day ) 74 17 . 9 ( 9 . 2 ) - 4 . 87 ( 0 . 62 ) - 5 . 4 ( - 7 . 1 , - 3 . 7 ) Placebo 76 17 . 9 ( 10 . 4 ) 0 . 54 ( 0 . 70 ) Figure 2 : LS Mean Change in SKAMP - Combined Score from Baseline after Treatment with AZSTARYS or Placebo during Classroom Day in Pediatric Patients ( 6 to 12 years ) with ADHD [ MULTIMEDIA ] Adults and Pediatric Patients 13 to 17 years of age with ADHD The efficacy of 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg AZSTARYS in adults and pediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age was established by pharmacokinetic bridging between AZSTARYS ( 52 . 3 mg / 10 . 4 mg ) and dexmethylphenidate hydrochloride extended - release capsules [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING AZSTARYS ( serdexmethylphenidate / dexmethylphenidate ) capsules are available as follows : • 26 . 1 / 5 . 2 mg Capsules – blue cap / grey body , imprinted with " 286 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body Bottles of 100 ························ NDC 65038 - 286 - 99 • 39 . 2 / 7 . 8 mg Capsules – dark blue cap / grey body , imprinted with " 429 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body Bottles of 100 ························ NDC 65038 - 429 - 99 • 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg Capsules – orange cap / grey body , imprinted with " 5612 " on cap and " KP415 " on the body Bottles of 100 ························ NDC 65038 - 561 - 99 Storage Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F to 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Dispense in tight container ( USP ) .
Disposal Comply with local laws and regulations on drug disposal of CNS stimulants .
Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired AZSTARYS by a medicine take - back program or by an authorized collector registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix AZSTARYS with an undesirable , nontoxic substance to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and discard AZSTARYS in the household trash .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Medication Guide ) .
Controlled Substance Status / High Potential for Abuse and Dependence Advise patients and their caregivers that AZSTARYS is a federally controlled substance , and it can be abused or lead to dependence [ see Drug Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 1 , 9 . 2 , and 9 . 3 ) ] .
Instruct patients that they should not give AZSTARYS to anyone else .
Advise patients to store AZSTARYS in a safe place , preferably locked , to prevent abuse .
Advise patients and their caregivers to comply with laws and regulations on drug disposal .
Advise patients and their caregivers to dispose of remaining , unused , or expired AZSTARYS through a medicine take - back program if available [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) , Abuse and Dependence ( 9 . 2 , 9 . 3 ) , How Supplied / Storage and Handling ( 16 ) ] .
Serious Cardiovascular Risks Advise patients and caregivers that there is a potential for serious cardiovascular risks including sudden death , myocardial infarction , and stroke with AZSTARYS .
Instruct patients to contact a healthcare provider immediately if they develop symptoms such as exertional chest pain , unexplained syncope , or other symptoms suggestive of cardiac disease [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Blood Pressure and Heart Rate Increases Advise patients and their caregivers that AZSTARYS can elevate blood pressure and heart rate [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Psychiatric Risks Advise patients and their caregivers that AZSTARYS , at recommended doses , can cause psychotic or manic symptoms , even in patients without a prior history or psychotic symptoms or mania [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Priapism Advise patients and their caregivers of the possibility of painful or prolonged penile erections ( priapism ) .
Instruct the patient to seek immediate medical attention in the event of priapism [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
Circulation Problems in Fingers and Toes [ Peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ] • Instruct patients about the risk of peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon , and associated signs and symptoms : fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , painful , and / or may change color from pale , to blue , to red .
• Instruct patients to report to their physician any new numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in fingers or toes .
• Instruct patients to call their physician immediately with any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes while taking AZSTARYS .
• Further clinical evaluation ( e . g . , rheumatology referral ) may be appropriate for certain patients [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Suppression of Growth Advise patients and their caregivers that AZSTARYS can cause slowing of growth and weight loss [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Administration Instructions Advise patients and their caregivers to administer AZSTARYS capsules whole or opened and sprinkled over applesauce or added to water .
If sprinkled , advise patients and their caregivers to consume all the drug / food mixture immediately or within 10 minutes of mixing and not to store for future use [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 3 ) ] .
Pregnancy Registry Advise patients that there is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in females exposed to AZSTARYS during pregnancy [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise nursing mother to monitor infants exposed to AZSTARYS through breastmilk for agitation , poor feeding , and reduced weight gain [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Distributed by : Corium , Inc . 4558 50 th Street , SE Grand Rapids , MI 49512 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 6 / 2021 Medication Guide AZSTARYS ™ ( az star ’ is ) ( serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate ) capsules , CII What is the most important information I should know about AZSTARYS ?
AZSTARYS can cause serious side effects , including : • Abuse and dependence .
AZSTARYS , other methylphenidate containing medicines , and amphetamines have a high chance for abuse and can cause physical and psychological dependence .
Your healthcare provider should check you or your child for signs of abuse and dependence before and during treatment with AZSTARYS • Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child has ever abused or been dependent on alcohol , prescription medicines , or street drugs .
• Your healthcare provider can tell you more about the differences between physical and psychological dependence and drug addiction .
• Heart - related problems , including : • sudden death , stroke , and heart attack in adults • sudden death in children who have heart problems or heart defects • increased blood pressure and heart rate Your healthcare provider should check you or your child carefully for heart problems before starting treatment with AZSTARYS .
Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have any heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure , or a family history of these .
Your healthcare provider should check you or your child ’ s blood pressure and heart rate regularly during treatment with AZSTARYS .
Call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you or your child have any signs of heart problems such as chest pain , shortness of breath , or fainting during treatment with AZSTARYS .
• Mental ( psychiatric ) problems , including : • new or worse behavior and thought problems • new or worse bipolar illness • new psychotic symptoms ( such as hearing voices , or seeing or believing things that are not real ) or new manic symptoms Tell your healthcare provider about any mental problems you or your child have , or about a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child have any new or worsening mental symptoms or problems during treatment with AZSTARYS , especially hearing voices , seeing or believing things that are not real , or new manic symptoms .
What is AZSTARYS ?
AZSTARYS is a central nervous system stimulant prescription medicine used for the treatment of Attention - Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) in people 6 years of age and older .
AZSTARYS may help increase attention and decrease impulsiveness and hyperactivity in people 6 years of age and older with ADHD .
It is not known if AZSTARYS is safe and effective in children younger than 6 years of age .
AZSTARYS is a federally controlled substance ( CII ) because it contains dexmethylphenidate that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs .
Keep AZSTARYS in a safe place to protect it from theft .
Never give AZSTARYS to anyone else because it may cause death or harm them .
Selling or giving away AZSTARYS may harm others and is against the law .
Do not take AZSTARYS if you or your child are : • allergic to serdexmethylphenidate , methylphenidate , or any of the ingredients in AZSTARYS .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in AZSTARYS .
• taking or have stopped taking within the past 14 days a medicine used to treat depression called a monoamine oxidase inhibitor ( MAOI ) .
Before taking AZSTARYS , tell your healthcare provider about all medical conditions , including if you or your child : • have heart problems , heart defects , high blood pressure • have mental problems including psychosis , mania , bipolar illness , or depression , or has a family history of suicide , bipolar illness , or depression • have circulation problems in fingers and toes • are pregnant or plans to become pregnant .
It is not known if AZSTARYS will harm the unborn baby .
• There is a pregnancy registry for females who are exposed to ADHD medications , including AZSTARYS , during pregnancy .
The purpose of the registry is to collect information about the health of females exposed to AZSTARYS and their baby .
If you or your child becomes pregnant during treatment with AZSTARYS , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the National Pregnancy Registry for Psychostimulants at 1 - 866 - 961 - 2388 .
• are breastfeeding or plans to breastfeed .
AZSTARYS passes into breast milk Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to feed the baby during treatment with AZSTARYS .
Tell your healthcare provider about all of the medicines that you or your child take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
AZSTARYS and some medicines may interact with each other and cause serious side effects .
Sometimes the doses of other medicines will need to be adjusted during treatment with AZSTARYS .
Your healthcare provider will decide whether AZSTARYS can be taken with other medicines .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you or your child takes : • MAOIs • blood pressure medicines ( anti - hypertensive ) Know the medicines that you or your child take .
Keep a list of the medicines with you to show your healthcare provider and pharmacist .
Do not start any new medicine during treatment with AZSTARYS without talking to your healthcare provider first .
How should AZSTARYS be taken ?
• Take AZSTARYS exactly as prescribed .
• Your healthcare provider may change the dose if needed .
• Take AZSTARYS 1 time each day in the morning with or without food .
• AZSTARYS capsules may be swallowed whole with water or other liquids .
• If AZSTARYS capsules cannot be swallowed whole , the capsule may be opened and the entire contents sprinkled onto 2 tablespoonfuls of applesauce or into 2 oz ( 50 mL ) of water .
• Swallow all the applesauce or water mixture right away or within 10 minutes of mixing .
Do not store applesauce or water and medicine mixture .
• Your healthcare provider may sometimes stop AZSTARYS treatment for a while to check ADHD symptoms .
In case of poisoning , call your poison control center at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What are possible side effects of AZSTARYS ?
AZSTARYS can cause serious side effects , including : • See " What is the most important information I should know about AZSTARYS ? "
• Painful and prolonged erections ( priapism ) .
Priapism has happened in males who take products that contain methylphenidate .
If you or your child develops priapism , get medical help right away .
• Circulation problems in fingers and toes ( peripheral vasculopathy , including Raynaud ' s phenomenon ) .
Signs and symptoms may include : • fingers or toes may feel numb , cool , or painful • fingers or toes may change color from pale , to blue , to red Tell your healthcare provider if you or your child have numbness , pain , skin color change , or sensitivity to temperature in the fingers or toes .
Call your healthcare provider right away if you or your child have any signs of unexplained wounds appearing on fingers or toes during treatment with AZSTARYS .
• Slowing of growth ( height and weight ) in children .
Children should have their height and weight checked often during treatment AZSTARYS .
AZSTARYS treatment may be stopped if your child is not growing or gaining weight .
The most common side effects of AZSTARYS include : • decreased appetite • nausea • indigestion • weight loss • dizziness • mood swings • increased blood pressure • trouble sleeping • vomiting • stomach pain • anxiety • irritability • increased heart rate These are not all the possible side effects of AZSTARYS .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store AZSTARYS ?
• Store AZSTARYS in a safe place and in a tightly closed container at room temperature between at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• Dispose of remaining , unused , or expired AZSTARYS by a medicine take - back program at authorized collection sites such as retail pharmacies , hospital or clinic pharmacies , and law enforcement locations .
If no take - back program or authorized collector is available , mix AZSTARYS with an undesirable , nontoxic substance such as dirt , cat litter , or used coffee grounds to make it less appealing to children and pets .
Place the mixture in a container such as a sealed plastic bag and throw away ( discard ) AZSTARYS in the household trash .
Keep AZSTARYS and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of AZSTARYS .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use AZSTARYS for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give AZSTARYS to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them , and it is against the law .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about AZSTARYS that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in AZSTARYS ?
Active ingredients : serdexmethylphenidate and dexmethylphenidate Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , hypromellose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , black iron oxide , titanium dioxide , FD & C Blue No . 1 ( 26 / 5 . 2 mg and 39 / 7 . 8 mg ) , FD & C Red No . 40 ( 39 / 7 . 8 mg and 52 / 10 . 4 mg ) , FD & C Yellow No . 6 ( 52 / 10 . 4 mg ) Distributed by Corium , Inc . , 4558 50 th Street , SE , Grand Rapids , MI 49512 For more information call 1 - 800 - 910 - 8432 or go to www . AZSTARYS . com PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 65038 - 286 - 99 - 26 . 1 / 5 . 2 mg 100 count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 65038 - 429 - 99 - 39 . 2 / 7 . 8 mg 100 count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PPRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - NDC : 65038 - 561 - 99 - 52 . 3 / 10 . 4 mg 100 count Bottle Label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
