Balanced Electrolyte Solution for Irrigation For All General Irrigation , Washing and Rinsing Purposes Not for Injection By Usual Parenteral Routes Semi - rigid Irrigation Container Rx only DESCRIPTION PhysioSol ™ is a sterile , nonpyrogenic solution of electrolytes in water for injection intended only for sterile irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes .
Each 100 mL of PhysioSol ™ Irrigation contains sodium chloride 526 mg , sodium acetate 222 mg , sodium gluconate 502 mg , potassium chloride 37 mg , magnesium chloride hexahydrate 30 mg .
The pH is 6 . 0 ( 5 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
The solution is isotonic ( 294 mOsmol / liter , calc . )
and has the following electrolyte content ( mEq / liter ) : Na + 140 , K + 5 , Mg + + 3 , Cl − 98 , HCO3 − 50 alternates ( 27 as acetate and 23 as gluconate ) .
It contains no bacteriostat , antimicrobial agent or added buffer ( except for pH adjustment ) and is intended only for use as single - dose or short procedure irrigation .
When smaller volumes are required the unused portion should be discarded .
PhysioSol ™ may be classified as a sterile irrigant , wash , rinse and pharmaceutical vehicle .
Magnesium Chloride , USP is chemically designated magnesium chloride hexahydrate ( MgCl2 • 6H2O ) , colorless , odorless flakes or crystals very soluble in water .
Potassium Chloride , USP is chemically designated KCl , a white granular powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Chloride , USP is chemically designated NaCl , a white crystalline powder freely soluble in water .
Sodium Acetate , USP is chemically designated sodium acetate ( C2H3O2Na ) , colorless crystals or white crystalline powder or flakes very soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Sodium gluconate is chemically designated C6H11NaO7 , the normal sodium salt of gluconic acid soluble in water .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Water for Injection , USP is chemically designated H2O .
The semi - rigid container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyolefin .
It is a copolymer of ethylene and propylene .
The container requires no vapor barrier to maintain the proper drug concentrations .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container may leach out certain chemical components from the plastic in very small amounts ; however , biological testing was supportive of the safety of the plastic container materials .
Exposure to temperatures above 25 ° C / 77 ° F during transport and storage will lead to minor losses in moisture content .
Higher temperatures lead to greater losses .
It is unlikely that these minor losses will lead to clinically significant changes within the expiration period .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY PhysioSol ™ Irrigation exerts a mechanical cleansing action for sterile irrigation of body cavities , tissues or wounds , indwelling urethral catheters and surgical drainage tubes , and for washing , rinsing or soaking surgical dressings , instruments and laboratory specimens .
It also serves as a vehicle for drugs used for irrigation or other pharmaceutical preparations .
PhysioSol ™ provides an isotonic calcium - free balanced electrolyte irrigation with the same ionic composition as Normosol ™ - R , a multiple electrolyte solution for I . V . replacement of acute extracellular fluid losses .
PhysioSol ™ Irrigation is considered generally compatible with living tissues and organs .
Magnesium chloride in water dissociates to provide magnesium ( Mg + + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Magnesium is the second most plentiful cation of the intracellular fluids .
It is an important cofactor for enzymatic reactions and plays an important role in neurochemical transmission and muscular excitability .
Normal plasma concentration ranges from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 or 3 . 0 mEq / liter .
Magnesium is excreted solely by the kidney at a rate proportional to the plasma concentration and glomerular filtration .
Potassium chloride in water dissociates to provide potassium ( K + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Potassium is the chief cation of body cells ( 160 mEq / liter of intracellular water ) .
It is found in low concentration in plasma and extracellular fluids ( 3 . 5 to 5 . 0 mEq / liter in a healthy adult ) .
Potassium plays an important role in electrolyte balance .
Normally about 80 to 90 % of the potassium intake is excreted in the urine ; the remainder in the stools and to a small extent , in the perspiration .
The kidney does not conserve potassium well so that during fasting or in patients on a potassium free diet , potassium loss from the body continues resulting in potassium depletion .
Sodium chloride in water dissociates to provide sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) ions .
Sodium ( Na + ) is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances .
Chloride ( Cl − ) has an integral role in buffering action when oxygen and carbon dioxide exchange occurs in the red blood cells .
The distribution and excretion of sodium ( Na + ) and chloride ( Cl − ) are largely under the control of the kidney which maintains a balance between intake and output .
Sodium acetate provides sodium ( Na + ) and acetate ( CH3COO − ) ions , the latter anion ( a source of hydrogen ion acceptors ) serving as an alternate source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) by metabolic conversion in the liver .
This has been shown to proceed readily even in the presence of severe liver disease .
Thus , acetate anion exerts a mild systemic antiacidotic action that may be advantageous during fluid and electrolyte replacement therapy .
Sodium gluconate provides sodium ( Na + ) and gluconate ( C6H11O7 − ) ions .
Although gluconate is a theoretical alternate metabolic source of bicarbonate ( HCO3 − ) anion , a significant antiacidotic ( alkalizing ) action has not been established .
Thus , the gluconate anion serves primarily to complete the cation - anion balance of the solutions .
Water is an essential constituent of all body tissues and accounts for approximately 70 % of total body weight .
Average normal adult daily requirement ranges from two to three liters ( 1 . 0 to 1 . 5 liters each for insensible water loss by perspiration and urine production ) .
Water balance is maintained by various regulatory mechanisms .
Water distribution depends primarily on the concentration of electrolytes in the body compartments and sodium ( Na + ) plays a major role in maintaining physiologic equilibrium .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE PhysioSol ™ is indicated for all general irrigation , washing and rinsing purposes which permit use of a sterile , nonpyrogenic electrolyte solution .
CONTRAINDICATIONS NOT FOR INJECTION BY USUAL PARENTERAL ROUTES .
An electrolyte solution should not be used for irrigation during electrosurgical procedures .
WARNINGS FOR IRRIGATION ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
Irrigating fluids have been demonstrated to enter the systemic circulation in relatively large volumes , thus , those irrigations must be regarded as a systemic drug .
Absorption of large amounts can cause fluid and / or solute overloading resulting in dilution of serum electrolyte concentrations , overhydration , congested states or pulmonary edema .
The risk of dilutional states is inversely proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of administered parenteral solutions .
The risk of solute overload causing congested states with peripheral and pulmonary edema is directly proportional to the electrolyte concentrations of such solutions .
Do not heat over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
PRECAUTIONS Caution should be observed when a solution is used for continuous irrigation or allowed to " dwell " inside body cavities because of possible absorption into the blood stream and the production of circulatory overload .
Aseptic technique is essential with the use of sterile solutions for irrigation of body cavities , wounds and urethral catheters or for wetting dressings that come in contact with body tissues .
When used as a " pour " irrigation , no part of the contents should be allowed to contact the surface below the outer protected thread area of the semi - rigid wide mouth container .
When used for irrigation via irrigation equipment , the administration set should be attached promptly .
Unused portions should be discarded and a fresh container of appropriate size used for the start - up of each cycle or repeat procedure .
For repeated irrigations of urethral catheters , a separate container should be used for each patient .
Do not administer unless solution is clear , seal is intact , and container is undamaged .
Discard unused portion .
Drug Interactions Additives may be incompatible .
Consult with pharmacist , if available .
When introducing additives , use aseptic technique , mix thoroughly and do not store .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Studies with PhysioSol ™ Irrigation have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential , or effects on fertility .
Nursing Mothers : Caution should be exercised when PhysioSol ™ Irrigation is administered to a nursing woman .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C : Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with PhysioSol ™ Irrigation .
It is also not known whether PhysioSol ™ Irrigation can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
PhysioSol ™ Irrigation should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : The safety and effectiveness of PhysioSol ™ Irrigation pH 7 . 4 have not been established .
Its limited use in pediatric patients has been inadequate to fully define proper dosage and limitations for use .
Geriatric Use : Clinical studies of PhysioSol ™ Irrigation have not been performed to determine whether patients over 65 years respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Possible adverse effects arising from the irrigation of body cavities , tissues , or indwelling catheters and tubes are usually avoidable when proper procedures are followed .
Displaced catheters or drainage tubes can lead to irrigation or infiltration of unintended structures or cavities .
Excessive volume or pressure during irrigation of closed cavities may cause undue distension or disruption of tissues .
Accidental contamination from careless technique may transmit infection .
Should any adverse reaction occur , discontinue the irrigant , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
OVERDOSAGE In the event of overhydration or solute overload , re - evaluate the patient and institute appropriate corrective measures .
See WARNINGS , PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dose is dependent upon the capacity or surface area of the structure to be irrigated and the nature of the procedure .
When used as a vehicle for other drugs , the manufacturer ' s recommendations should be followed .
Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration , whenever solution container permits .
See PRECAUTIONS .
HOW SUPPLIED PhysioSolTM Irrigation is supplied in a 1000 mL single - dose semi - rigid irrigation container .
( NDC No . 0409 - 6141 - 09 ) ( NDC No . 0990 - 6141 - 09 ) ICU Medical is transitioning NDC codes from the " 0409 " to a " 0990 " labeler code .
Both NDC codes are expected to be in the market for a period of time .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
Revised : April , 2018 EN - 5714 Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc .
Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 1000 mL Bottle Label 1000 mL NDC 0990 - 6141 - 09 PhysioSol ™ Irrigation Each 100 mL contains sodium chloride , 526 mg ; sodium acetate , anhydrous 222 mg ; sodium gluconate , 502 mg ; potassium chloride , 37 mg ; magnesium chloride , hexahydrate 30 mg .
pH adjusted with HCl .
pH 6 . 0 ( 5 . 0 to 6 . 5 ) .
294 mOsmol / liter ( calc . )
.
Sterile , nonpyrogenic .
Isotonic solution for irrigation .
Contraindication : Not for injection .
Use only if clear and seal intact .
Warning : Do not heat bottle over 66 ° C ( 150 ° F ) .
Store at 20 to 25 ° C ( 68 to 77 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature . ]
Protect from freezing .
See insert .
Single - dose container .
Usual dosage : See insert .
Rx only AQUALITE ™ SYSTEM Manufactured for ICU Medical , Inc . , Lake Forest , Illinois , 60045 , USA icumedical RL – 7138 LOT EXP [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
