Active Ingredients Allantoin ( 11 % ) Purpose Vaginal skin protectant Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control right away .
( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) Uses - Moisturizes vaginal dryness and helps to improve elasticity - Relieves external itching and alleviates odors before and after the menstruation Warnings For vaginal use only Do not use if you have ( are ) - an allergic reaction ( rashes , and pimples , redness , swelling , skin irritation , discomfort , burning , vaginal peeling or bleeding , pain in the abdomen or pelvic area , fluttering heartbeat and chest pain , lumbar pain , abnormal vaginal secretion , pollakisuria , abnormal dryness , excessive menstrual bleeding , odor and green colored vaginal secretion , hypotension , faint , and papulopustule , pelvic pain ) - pregnant - hyper sensitive skin and skin ailment - scars on vagina - itching , rash , swelling redness , discomfort , burning , irritation vaginal peeling or bleeding When using this product - do not use while having the monthly menstrual period - prior to absorption there is a risk the tablet may fall out of the vagina - often wash towels or underwear and do not wear reuse underwear again prior to washing due to risk of infections - try to avoid sexual relations when you have vaginal yeast infection , it can be aggravated - try not to use tampons and feminine cleansers - avoid contact with eye area - do not eat or swallow - do not use rubber products such as latex , condoms , and diaphragms together - do not use other vaginal tablets while using Jil Gyung Yi If pregnant or breast - feeding , do not use .
Store at cool temperature and dry place with a closed container .
Avoid direct sunlight Overdose warning - If you accidentally take the tablet orally , stop using this medication and see doctor immediately .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have - fever ( over 36 ° C ) , pain in abdomen , odor , lumbar pain , abnormal secretion , nausea and abnormal shoulder pain .
Directions For adults – 2 tablets at the same time - Keep use 2 days consecutively and prefer to use once 10 days in 2 months .
( after then , use it when you need ) - Do not use up to 6 hours prior to any sexual relation .
- Do not use up to 6 months after giving birth .
- Symptoms may vary depending on the age of the patient . Directions - Use only adults and children 12 years age and over 1 ) Wash hands before using this product 2 ) Do not remove moisture , open the package and vaginal tablets are placed into the vagina in much the same way as a tampon stand , squat , or lie on your back in a comfortable position then insert the loaded applicator into the vagina as far as it will comfortably go .
3 ) It is preferable to use the treatment during night time prior to bed .
4 ) Use of a sanitary pad after application , because there may be vaginal secretion 30 min after application .
If there are lots of secretion , change a new sanitary pad .
5 ) Wash the area around the vagina ( the vulva ) gently next day , bacteria in your vaginal secretion can cause itching .
Inactive Ingredients Sodium Chloride , Soluble Collagen , Glucose , Magnesium Stearate , Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Extract , Cereus Grandiflorus ( Cactus ) Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Leaf Extract , Mentha Piperita ( Peppermint ) Leaf Extract , Centella Asiatica Extract , Sophora Flavescens Root Extract , Angelica Gigas Root Extract Secret Gyno ( 10 Tablets ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
