DESCRIPTION 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is a sterile , nonpyrogenic , hypertonic solution for fluid and electrolyte replenishment in single dose containers for intravenous administration .
The pH may have been adjusted with hydrochloric acid .
It contains no antimicrobial agents .
Composition , ionic concentration , osmolarity , and pH are shown in Table 1 .
Table 1 Size ( mL ) Composition ( g / L ) Ionic Concentration ( mEq / L ) [ 1 ] Osmolarity ( mOsmol / L ) ( calc ) pH Sodium Chloride , USP ( NaCl ) Sodium Chloride 3 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 30 513 513 1027 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 500 50 856 856 1711 5 . 0 ( 4 . 5 to 7 . 0 ) [ 1 ] Normal physiological osmolarity range is approximately 280 to 310 mOsmol / L .
Administration of substantially hypertonic solutions ( ≥ 600 mOsmol / L ) may cause vein damage .
The VIAFLEX plastic container is fabricated from a specially formulated polyvinyl chloride ( PL 146 Plastic ) .
The amount of water that can permeate from inside the container into the overwrap is insufficient to affect the solution significantly .
Solutions in contact with the plastic container can leach out certain of its chemical components in very small amounts within the expiration period , e . g . , di - 2 - ethylhexyl phthalate ( DEHP ) , up to 5 parts per million .
However , the safety of the plastic has been confirmed in tests in animals according to USP biological tests for plastic containers as well as by tissue culture toxicity studies .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP has value as a source of water and electrolytes .
It is capable of inducing diuresis depending on the clinical condition of the patient .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is indicated as a source of water and electrolytes .
CONTRAINDICATIONS None known WARNINGS 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP is strongly hypertonic and may cause vein damage .
3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be used with great care , if at all , in patients with congestive heart failure , severe renal insufficiency , and in clinical states in which there exists edema with sodium retention .
In patients with diminished renal function , administration of 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP may result in sodium retention .
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS Clinical evaluation and periodic laboratory determinations are necessary to monitor changes in fluid balance , electrolyte concentrations , and acid base balance during prolonged parenteral therapy or whenever the condition of the patient warrants such evaluation .
Caution must be exercised in the administration of 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to patients receiving corticosteroids or corticotropin .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP .
It is also not known whether 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in pediatric patients have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials , however , the use of sodium chloride solutions in the pediatric population is referenced in the medical literature .
The warnings , precautions and adverse reactions identified in the label copy should be observed in the pediatric population .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or drug therapy .
This drug is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney , and the risk of toxic reactions to this drug may be greater in patients with impaired renal function .
Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function , care should be taken in dose selection , and it may be useful to monitor renal function .
Do not administer unless solution is clear and seal is intact .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Reactions which may occur because of the solution or the technique of administration include febrile response , infection at the site of injection , venous thrombosis or phlebitis extending from the site of injection , extravasation and hypervolemia .
If an adverse reaction does occur , discontinue the infusion , evaluate the patient , institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures , and save the remainder of the fluid for examination if deemed necessary .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 % and 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP in VIAFLEX plastic container is available as follows : Code Size ( mL ) NDC Product Name 2b1353 500 0338 - 0054 - 03 3 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 2B1373 500 0338 - 0056 - 03 5 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized .
Avoid excessive heat .
It is recommended the product be stored at room temperature ( 25 ° C ) ; brief exposure up to 40 ° C does not adversely affect the product .
Directions for Use of VIAFLEX Plastic Container Warning : Do not use plastic containers in series connections .
Such use could result in air embolism due to residual air being drawn from the primary container before administration of the fluid from the secondary container is completed .
To Open Tear overwrap down side at slit and remove solution container .
Some opacity of the plastic due to moisture absorption during the sterilization process may be observed .
This is normal and does not affect the solution quality or safety .
The opacity will diminish gradually .
Check for minute leaks by squeezing inner bag firmly .
If leaks are found , discard solution as sterility may be impaired .
If supplemental medication is desired , follow directions below .
Preparation for Administration • Suspend container from eyelet support .
• Remove plastic protector from outlet port at bottom of container .
• Attach administration set .
Refer to complete directions accompanying set .
To Add Medication Warning : Additives may be incompatible .
To add medication before solution administration • Prepare medication site • Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
For high density medication such as potassium chloride , squeeze ports while ports are upright and mix thoroughly .
To add medication during solution administration • Close clamp on the set .
• Prepare medication site .
• Using syringe with 19 to 22 gauge needle , puncture resealable medication port and inject .
• Remove container from IV pole and / or turn to an upright position .
• Evacuate both ports by squeezing them while container is in the upright position .
• Mix solution and medication thoroughly .
• Return container to in use position and continue administration .
Baxter Healthcare Corporation Deerfield , IL 60015 USA Printed in USA
