Active ingredient 5 % Coal Tar Topical Solution USP ( 1 % Coal Tar ) Purpose Anti - dandruff Anti - seborrheic dermatitis Anti - psoriasis Use controls the symptoms of : • dandruff • seborrheic dermatitis • psoriasis Warnings For external use only Ask a doctor before use a condition which covers a large part of the body When using this product • do not get into eyes .
if contact occurs , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
• use caution in exposing skin to sunlight after applying this product .
It may increase your tendency to sunburn for up to 24 hours after application • do not use for prolonged periods without consulting a doctor • do not use with other forms of psoriasis therapy such as ultraviolet radiation or prescription drugs unless directed to do so by a doctor Stop use and ask a doctor condition worsens or does not improve after regular use of this product as directed Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • for best results use at least twice a week or as directed by a doctor • wet hair thoroughly • massage shampoo into the scalp • lather .
Leave on hair and scalp for several minutes .
• rinse and repeat Other information • store away from direct sunlight • in rare instances , discoloration of gray , blonde , bleached , or tinted hair may occur Inactive ingredients water , sodium laureth sulfate , cocamide MEA , cocamidopropyl betaine , polysorbate 20 , laureth - 4 , bis - hydroxyethyl dihydroxypropyl stearammonium chloride , PEG - 120 methyl glucose dioleate , tetrasodium EDTA , citric acid , methylchloroisothiazolinone , methylisothiazolinone , fragrance , caramel , red 4 Questions or comments ?
Call : 1 - 888 - 287 - 1915 Benefits Equate Therapeutic Shampoo helps to control the scalp itching and flaking caused by chronic scalp psoriasis , seborrheic dermatitis and common dandruff .
The active ingredient in EquateTherapeutic Shampoo continues to work even after hair has been rinsed .
The clear formula is formulated to be pleasant to use and gentle on hair .
This uniquely formulated shampoo is gentle and safe for regular use as directed .
The luxuriously rich lather has a fresh scent and will leave your hair shiny and manageable .
This product is not manufactured or distributed byNeutrogena Corporation , Distributor of T / Gel Shampoo This product is not labeled for sale in the State of California Distributed by : Wal - Mart Stores Inc .
Bentonville , AR 72216 NDC 49035 - 497 - 30 Equate Compare to Neutrogena T / Gel Therapeutic Shampoo Extra Strength * Extra Strength Anti - Dandruff Formula Therapeutic Shampoo 5 % Coal Tar Topical Solution USP ( 1 % Coal Tar ) Long - Lasting Relief for Itchy , Flaky Scalp • Keeps working even after hair has been rinsed • Controls symptoms of dandruff , psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis • Transparent formula • Gentle Fragrance 6 FL OZ ( 177 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
