WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system ( RAS ) can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride as soon as possible ( 5 . 1 ) .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system ( RAS ) can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 1 ) .
1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are a combination capsule of amlodipine , a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker ( DHP CCB ) and benazepril , an angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent .
( 1 ) 1 . 1 Hypertension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Usual starting dose is 2 . 5 mg / 10 mg .
( 2 . 1 ) • May be used as add - on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor ( 2 . 2 ) • Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules containing a lower dose of amlodipine .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose is amlodipine 2 . 5 mg and benazepril 10 mg orally once - daily .
Begin therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules only after a patient has either ( a ) failed to achieve the desired antihypertensive effect with amlodipine or benazepril monotherapy , or ( b ) demonstrated inability to achieve adequate antihypertensive effect with amlodipine therapy without developing edema .
The antihypertensive effect of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is largely attained within 2 weeks .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled , the dose may be titrated up to amlodipine 10 mg and benazepril 40 mg once - daily .
The dosing should be individualized and adjusted according to the patient ’ s clinical response .
In clinical trials of amlodipine and benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2 . 5 to 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 to 40 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups , and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups .
2 . 2 Replacement Therapy Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules may be substituted for the titrated components .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules USP are available as follows : 2 . 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 20 mg , 5 mg / 40 mg , 10 mg / 20 mg , and 10 mg / 40 mg .
Capsules ( amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride ) : 2 . 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 20 mg , 5 mg / 40 mg , 10 mg / 20 mg , and 10 mg / 40 mg .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Do not coadminister aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers ( ARBs ) , angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitors , including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with diabetes .
• Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema , with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment , or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril , to any other ACE inhibitor , to amlodipine , or to any of the excipients of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
• Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor , e . g . , sacubitril / valsartan [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• Do not coadminister aliskiren with ACE inhibitors , including amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , in patients with diabetes .
( 4 ) • Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsulesare contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril or to amlodipine .
( 4 ) • Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in combination with a neprilysin inhibitor ( e . g . , sacubitril ) .
Do not administer amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules within 36 hours of switching to or from a neprilysin inhibitor , e . g . , sacubitril / valsartan .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Anaphylactoid reactions , including angioedema .
( 5 . 2 ) • Myocardial infarction or increased angina in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease .
( 5 . 3 ) • Assess for hypotension and hyperkalemia .
( 5 . 4 , 5 . 6 ) • Titrate slowly in patients with impaired hepatic or severely impaired renal function .
( 5 . 5 , 5 . 7 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Amlodipine Benazepril hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride as soon as possible [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Angioedema and Anaphylactoid Reactions Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with benazepril .
This may occur at any time during treatment .
Angioedema associated with edema of the larynx , tongue , or glottis can compromise the airway and be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , discontinue treatment with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and treat immediately .
When involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , administer subcutaneous epinephrine injection 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) , promptly [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) ] .
Patients with a history of angioedema may be at increased risk for angioedema while receiving amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to nonblacks .
Patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitor and mTOR ( mammalian target of rapamycin ) inhibitor ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) therapy or a neprilysin inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera ( wasp sting ) venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
5 . 3 Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
5 . 4 Hypotension Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride can cause symptomatic hypotension , sometimes complicated by oliguria , progressive azotemia , acute renal failure , or death .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have heart failure , severe aortic or mitral stenosis , obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or have been volume or salt depleted as a result of diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Correct volume and salt depletion before starting therapy with benazepril .
If hypotension occurs , place the patient in the supine position and give physiological saline intravenously if needed .
Continue treatment with benazepril once blood pressure and volume have returned to normal .
In patients with congestive heart failure , start amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride therapy under close medical supervision ; follow closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of the benazepril component is increased or a diuretic is added or its dose increased .
In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , benazepril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
5 . 5 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Changes in renal function , including acute renal failure , can be caused by drugs that affect the RAS .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the RAS ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , severe heart failure , post - myocardial infarction or volume depletion ) or who are on Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) or ARBs may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
5 . 6 Hyperkalemia Monitor serum potassium periodically in patients receiving amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Drugs that affect the RAS can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
In U . S . placebo - controlled trials of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , hyperkalemia [ serum potassium at least 0 . 5 mEq / L greater than the upper limit of normal ( ULN ) ] not present at baseline occurred in approximately 1 . 5 % of hypertensive patients receiving amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Increases in serum potassium were generally reversible .
5 . 7 Hepatitis and Hepatic Failure There have been rare reports of predominantly cholestatic hepatitis and isolated cases of acute liver failure , some of them fatal , in patients on ACE inhibitors .
The mechanism is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevation of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and be kept under medical surveillance .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Discontinuation because of adverse reactions occurred in 4 % of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride - treated patients and 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride were cough and edema .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . at 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride has been evaluated for safety in over 2 , 991 patients with hypertension ; over 500 of these patients were treated for at least 6 months , and over 400 were treated for more than 1 year .
In a pooled analysis of 5 placebo - controlled trials involving amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride doses up to 5 / 20 , the reported side effects were generally mild and transient , and there was no relationship between side effects and age , sex , race , or duration of therapy .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in approximately 4 % of patients treated with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and in 3 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in these studies were cough and edema ( including angioedema ) .
The peripheral edema associated with amlodipine use is dose - dependent .
When benazepril is added to a regimen of amlodipine , the incidence of edema is substantially reduced .
The addition of benazepril to a regimen of amlodipine should not be expected to provide additional antihypertensive effect in African - Americans .
However , all patient groups benefit from the reduction in amlodipine - induced edema .
The side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in these trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride are shown in the table below .
Cough was the only adverse event with at least possible relationship to treatment that was more common on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride ( 3 . 3 % ) than on placebo ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Percent Incidence in U . S . Placebo - controlled Trials * Edema refers to all edema , such as dependent edema , angioedema , facial edema .
Benazepril and Amlodipine Benazepril Amlodipine Placebo N = 760 N = 554 N = 475 N = 408 Cough 3 . 3 1 . 8 0 . 4 0 . 2 Headache 2 . 2 3 . 8 2 . 9 5 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 3 1 . 6 2 . 3 1 . 5 Edema * 2 . 1 0 . 9 5 . 1 2 . 2 The incidence of edema was greater in patients treated with amlodipine monotherapy ( 5 . 1 % ) than in patients treated with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride ( 2 . 1 % ) or placebo ( 2 . 2 % ) .
Other side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials of patients treated with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride or in postmarketing experience were the following : Body as a Whole : Asthenia and fatigue .
CNS : Insomnia , nervousness , anxiety , tremor , and decreased libido .
Dermatologic : Flushing , hot flashes , rash , skin nodule , and dermatitis .
Digestive : Dry mouth , nausea , abdominal pain , dyspepsia , and esophagitis .
Hematologic : Neutropenia .
Musculoskeletal : cramps , and muscle cramps .
Urogenital : Sexual problems , such as impotence , and polyuria .
Monotherapies of benazepril and amlodipine have been evaluated for safety in clinical trials in over 6 , 000 and 11 , 000 patients , respectively .
The observed adverse reactions to the monotherapies in these trials were similar to those seen in trials of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In postmarketing experience with benazepril , there have been rare reports of Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pancreatitis , hemolytic anemia , pemphigus , thrombocytopenia , paresthesia , dysgeusia , orthostatic symptoms and hypotension , angina pectoris and arrhythmia , pruritus , photosensitivity reaction , arthralgia , arthritis , myalgia , blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) increase , serum creatinine increase , renal impairment , vision impairment , agranulocytosis , neutropenia .
Rare reports in association with use of amlodipine : gingival hyperplasia , tachycardia , jaundice , and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis severe enough to require hospitalization ) , leukocytopenia , allergic reaction , hyperglycemia , dysgeusia , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , syncope , peripheral neuropathy , hypertonia , visual impairment , diplopia , hypotension , vasculitis , rhinitis , gastritis , hyperhidrosis , pruritus , skin discoloration , urticaria , erythema multiform , muscle spasms , arthralgia , micturition disorder , nocturia , erectile dysfunction , malaise , weight decrease or gain .
Other potentially important adverse experiences attributed to other ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers include : eosinophilic pneumonitis ( ACE inhibitors ) and gynecomastia ( CCBs ) .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Potassium supplements / potassium - sparing diuretics : hyperkalemia ( 7 . 1 ) • Lithium : Increased serum lithium levels ; toxicity symptoms ( 7 . 1 ) • Injectable gold : facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , hypotension ( 7 . 1 ) • Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Risk of renal dysfunction , loss of antihypertensive effect ( 7 . 1 ) • Do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin ( 7 . 1 ) • mTOR inhibitors : increased risk of angioedema ( 7 . 1 ) • Dual inhibition of the RAS : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 1 ) • Neprilysin inhibitors : increased risk of angioedema ( 7 . 1 ) 7 . 1 Drug / Drug Interactions Amlodipine Simvastatin : Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors : Coadministration with CYP3A inhibitors ( moderate and strong ) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment .
CYP3A4 Inducers : No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is coadministered with CYP3A4 inducers ( e . g . rifampicin , St . John ’ s Wort ) .
Benazepril Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics : Benazepril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
If concomitant use of such agents is indicated , the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
Lithium : Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
When coadministering amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and lithium , frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy .
Nonsteroidal Anti - Inflammatory Drugs ( NSAIDs ) including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , coadministration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy .
The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Antidiabetic Agents : In rare cases , diabetic patients receiving an ACE inhibitor ( including benazepril ) concomitantly with insulin or oral antidiabetics may develop hypoglycemia .
Such patients should therefore be advised about the possibility of hypoglycemic reactions and should be monitored accordingly .
Mammalian Target of Rapamycin ( mTOR ) Inhibitors : The risk of angioedema may be increased in patients receiving coadministration of ACE inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors ( e . g . , temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Most patients receiving the combination of two RAS inhibitors do not obtain any additional benefit compared to monotherapy .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride and other agents that block the RAS .
Do not coadminister aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in patients with renal impairment [ glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) < 60 mL / min ] .
Neprilysin Inhibitor : Patients taking concomitant neprilysin inhibitors may be at increased risk for angioedema [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the RAS during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the RAS from other antihypertensive agents .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 to 4 % and 15 to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - Associated Maternal and / or Embryo / Fetal Risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal Adverse Reactions Oligohydramnios in pregnant women who use drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension and death .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
If oligohydramnios is observed , consider alternative drug treatment .
Closely observe neonates with histories of in utero exposure to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
In neonates with a history of in utero exposure to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , if oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and replacing renal function .
Data Animal Data Benazepril and Amlodipine : When rats received benazepril : amlodipine at doses ranging from 5 : 2 . 5 to 50 : 25 mg / kg / day , dystocia was observed at an increasing dose - related incidence at all doses tested .
On a body surface area basis , the 2 . 5 mg / kg / day dose of amlodipine is twice the amlodipine dose delivered when the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is given to a 60 kg patient .
Similarly , the 5 mg / kg / day dose of benazepril is approximately equivalent with the benazepril dose delivered when the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is given to a 60 kg patient .
No teratogenic effects were seen when benazepril and amlodipine were administered in combination to pregnant rats or rabbits .
Rats received doses of up to 50 : 25 mg ( benazepril : amlodipine ) / kg / day ( 12 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis , assuming a 60 kg patient ) .
Rabbits received doses of up to 1 . 5 : 0 . 75 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride given to a 60 kg patient ) .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary Minimal amounts of unchanged benazepril and of benazeprilat are excreted into the breast milk of lactating women treated with benazepril , so that a newborn child ingesting nothing but breast milk would receive less than 0 . 1 % of the maternal doses of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Limited available data from a published clinical lactation study reports that amlodipine is present in human milk at an estimated median relative infant dose of 4 . 2 % .
No adverse effects of amlodipine on the breastfed infant have been observed .
There is no available information on the effects of amlodipine or benazepril on milk production .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In geriatric patients , exposure to amlodipine is increased , thus consider lower initial doses of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Of the total number of patients who received amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride in U . S . clinical studies of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , over 19 % were 65 years or older while about 2 % were 75 years or older .
Overall differences in effectiveness or safety were not observed between these patients and younger patients .
Clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Exposure to amlodipine is increased in patients with hepatic insufficiency , thus consider using lower doses of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment systemic exposure to benazepril is increased .
The recommended dose of benazepril in this subgroup is 5 mg which is not an available strength with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment .
No dose adjustment of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is needed in patients with mild or moderate impairment of renal function [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
10 OVERDOSAGE Only a few cases of human overdose with amlodipine have been reported .
One patient was asymptomatic after a 250 mg ingestion ; another , who combined 70 mg of amlodipine with an unknown large quantity of a benzodiazepine , developed refractory shock and died .
Human overdoses with any combination of amlodipine and benazepril have not been reported .
In scattered reports of human overdoses with benazepril and other ACE inhibitors , there are no reports of death .
Treatment : Patients should be admitted to hospital and , generally , should be managed in an intensive care setting , with continuous monitoring of cardiac function , blood gases , and blood biochemistry .
Emergency supportive measures such as artificial ventilation or cardiac pacing should be instituted if appropriate .
In the event of a potentially life - threatening oral overdose , use induction of vomiting or gastric lavage and / or activated charcoal to remove the drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( only if presented within 1 hour after ingestion of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride ) .
Other clinical manifestations of overdose should be managed symptomatically based on modern methods of intensive care .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison - Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison - control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdose , consider the possibilities of multiple - drug overdoses , drug - drug interactions , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
The most likely effect of overdose with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is vasodilation , with consequent hypotension and tachycardia .
Simple repletion of central fluid volume ( Trendelenburg positioning , infusion of crystalloids ) may be sufficient therapy , but pressor agents ( norepinephrine or high - dose dopamine ) may be required .
With abrupt return of peripheral vascular tone , overdoses of other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers have sometimes progressed to pulmonary edema , and patients must be monitored for this complication .
Analyses of bodily fluids for concentrations of amlodipine , benazepril , or their metabolites are not widely available .
Such analyses are , in any event , not known to be of value in therapy or prognosis .
No data are available to suggest physiologic maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of amlodipine , benazepril , or their metabolites .
Benazeprilat is only slightly dialyzable ; attempted clearance of amlodipine by hemodialysis or hemo - perfusion has not been reported , but amlodipine ’ s high protein binding makes it unlikely that these interventions will be of value .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote to benazepril , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research laboratories .
11 DESCRIPTION Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules USP are a combination of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride .
Benazepril hydrochloride USP is a white to off - white , crystalline powder , soluble ( greater than 100 mg / mL ) in water , in ethanol , and in methanol .
Benazepril hydrochloride ’ s chemical name is 3 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenyl - ( 1 S ) - propyl ] amino ] - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 2 - oxo - 1 H - 1 - ( 3 S ) - benzazepine - 1 - acetic acid monohydrochloride ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is C24H28N2O5 • HCl , and its molecular weight is 460 . 96 .
Benazeprilat , the active metabolite of benazepril , is a nonsulfhydryl ACE inhibitor .
Benazepril is converted to benazeprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Amlodipine besylate USP is a white or almost white powder , slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Its chemical name is ( R , S ) 3 - ethyl - 5 - methyl - 2 - ( 2 - aminoethoxymethyl ) - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate benzenesulfonate ; its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its molecular formula is C20H25ClN2O5 • C6H6O3S , and its molecular weight is 567 . 1 .
Amlodipine besylate is the besylate salt of amlodipine , a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is available as capsules containing amlodipine besylate USP ( 3 . 5 mg , 6 . 9 mg or 13 . 9 mg , equivalent to 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg or 10 mg of amlodipine respectively ) , with 10 mg , 20 mg , or 40 mg of benazepril hydrochloride USP providing for the following available combinations : 2 . 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 10 mg , 5 mg / 20 mg , 5 mg / 40 mg , 10 mg / 20 mg , and 10 mg / 40 mg .
The inactive ingredients of the capsules are colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , gelatin , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the hard gelatin capsule shells of 5 mg / 10 mg contains iron oxide black , iron oxide red , and iron oxide yellow , 5 mg / 20 mg contains iron oxide red , 5 mg / 40 mg and 10 mg / 40 mg contains FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 3 , and 10 mg / 20 mg contains D & C Red 28 , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 40 , and FD & C Yellow 5 .
The capsules are printed with edible ink containing black iron oxide and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benazepril Benazepril and benazeprilat inhibit ACE in human subjects and in animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Hypertensive patients treated with benazepril and amlodipine for up to 56 weeks had elevations of serum potassium up to 0 . 2 mEq / L [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] .
Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In animal studies , benazepril had no inhibitory effect on the vasopressor response to angiotensin II and did not interfere with the hemodynamic effects of the autonomic neurotransmitters acetylcholine , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which benazepril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin aldosterone system , benazepril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Amlodipine Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Benazepril Single and multiple doses of 10 mg or more of benazepril cause inhibition of plasma ACE activity by at least 80 % to 90 % for at least 24 hours after dosing .
For up to 4 hours after a 10 mg dose , pressor responses to exogenous angiotensin I were inhibited by 60 % to 90 % .
Administration of benazepril to patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent , with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt and / or volume depleted [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
The antihypertensive effects of benazepril were not appreciably different in patients receiving high - or low - sodium diets .
In normal human volunteers , single doses of benazepril caused an increase in renal blood flow but had no effect on glomerular filtration rate .
Amlodipine Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
With chronic once - daily administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 to 114 mmHg ) had about 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 to 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressure ( + 1 / - 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and humans , even when coadministered with beta blockers to humans .
Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial ( SA ) nodal function or atrioventricular ( AV ) conduction in intact animals or humans .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
Amlodipine has demonstrated beneficial clinical effects in patients with chronic stable angina , vasospastic angina and angiographically documented coronary artery disease .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and amlodipine from amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride are the same as when administered as individual tablets .
Absorption from the individual tablets is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract ; food effects on absorption from amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride have not been studied .
Absorption : Following oral administration of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , peak plasma concentrations of amlodipine are reached in 6 to 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been calculated as between 64 % and 90 % .
Following oral administration of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , the peak plasma concentrations of benazepril are reached in 0 . 5 to 2 hours .
The cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts benazepril to its active metabolite , benazeprilat , which reaches peak plasma concentrations in 1 . 5 to 4 hours .
The extent of absorption of benazepril is at least 37 % .
Amlodipine and benazepril exhibit dose proportional pharmacokinetics between the therapeutic dose range of 2 . 5 and 10 mg and 10 and 20 mg , respectively .
Distribution : The apparent volume of distribution of amlodipine is about 21 L / kg .
In vitro studies indicate that approximately 93 % of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
The apparent volume of distribution of benazeprilat is about 0 . 7 L / kg .
Approximately 93 % of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins , and the bound fraction of benazeprilat is slightly higher .
On the basis of in vitro studies , benazeprilat ’ s degree of protein binding should be unaffected by age , by hepatic dysfunction , or — over the therapeutic concentration range — by concentration .
Metabolism : Amlodipine is extensively ( approximately 90 % ) metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites .
Benazepril is extensively metabolized to form benazeprilat as the main metabolite , which occurs by enzymatic hydrolysis , mainly in the liver .
Two minor metabolites are the acyl glucuronide conjugates of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Elimination : Amlodipine elimination from plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 30 to 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels are reached after once - daily dosing for 7 to 8 days .
Ten percent of unchanged drug and 60 % of amlodipine metabolites are excreted in urine .
Effective elimination half - life of amlodipine is 2 days .
Benazepril is eliminated mainly by metabolic clearance .
Benazeprilat is eliminated via the kidneys and the bile ; renal excretion is the main route in patients with normal renal function .
In the urine , benazepril accounts for less than 1 % and benazeprilat for about 20 % of an oral dose .
Elimination of benazeprilat is biphasic with an initial half - life of about 3 hours and a terminal half - life of about 22 hours .
Benazeprilat ’ s effective elimination half - life is 10 to 11 hours , while that of amlodipine is about 2 days , so steady - state levels of the 2 components are achieved after about a week of once - daily dosing .
Specific Populations Geriatric Patients : No specific clinical studies were performed to understand the impact of age on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine and benazepril as fixed dose combination .
As individual component amlodipine is extensively metabolized in the liver .
In the elderly , clearance of amlodipine is decreased with resulting increases in peak plasma levels , elimination half - life and area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Hepatic Impairment : Patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 to 60 % .
Pharmacokinetics of benazepril is not significantly influenced by hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Renal Impairment : The disposition of benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with mild - to - moderate renal insufficiency ( CrCl greater than 30 mL / min ) is similar to that in patients with normal renal function .
In patients with CrCl less than or equal to 30 mL / min , peak benazeprilat levels and the effective half - life increase , resulting in higher systemic exposures .
Pharmacokinetics of amlodipine is not significantly influenced by renal impairment [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Drug Interactions Amlodipine In vitro data in human plasma indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
Cimetidine : Coadministration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Grapefruit juice : Coadministration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Maalox ® ( antacid ) : Coadministration of the antacid Maalox with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Sildenafil : A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine .
When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
Atorvastatin : Coadministration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
Digoxin : Coadministration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
Ethanol ( alcohol ) : Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
Warfarin : Coadministration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
Simvastatin : Coadministration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone .
CYP3A Inhibitors : Coadministration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin coadministration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent .
Benazepril The pharmacokinetic properties of benazepril are not affected by hydrochlorothiazide , furosemide , chlorthalidone , digoxin , propranolol , atenolol , nifedipine , amlodipine , naproxen , acetylsalicylic acid , or cimetidine .
Likewise the administration of benazepril does not substantially affect the pharmacokinetics of these medications .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with this combination .
However , these studies have been conducted with amlodipine and benazepril alone ( see below ) .
No adverse effects on fertility occurred when the benazepril : amlodipine combination was given orally to rats of either sex at doses up to 15 : 7 . 5 mg ( benazepril : amlodipine ) / kg / day , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
Benazepril : No evidence of carcinogenicity was found when benazepril was administered to rats and mice for up to 2 years at doses of up to 150 mg / kg / day .
When compared on the basis of body surface area , this dose is 18 and 9 times ( rats and mice , respectively ) the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) ( calculations assume a patient weight of 60 kg ) .
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria , in an in vitro test for forward mutations in cultured mammalian cells , or in a nucleus anomaly test .
At doses of 50 to 500 mg / kg / day ( 6 to 60 times the MRHD on a body surface area basis ) , benazepril had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Amlodipine : Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to 2 years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 mg amlodipine / kg / day , showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a body surface area basis , similar to the MRHD of 10 mg amlodipine / day .
For the rat , the highest dose was , on a body surface area basis , about two and a half times the MRHD ( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient ) .
Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses of up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( about 10 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day on a body surface area basis ) .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Over 950 patients received amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride once - daily in 6 double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours , with peak reductions achieved 2 to 8 hours after dosing .
Once - daily doses of benazepril and amlodipine using benazepril doses of 10 to 20 mg and amlodipine doses of 2 . 5 to 10 mg decreased seated pressure ( systolic / diastolic ) 24 hours after dosing by about 10 to 25 / 6 to 13 mmHg .
In 2 studies in patients not adequately controlled on either benazepril 40 mg alone ( n = 329 ) or amlodipine 10 mg alone ( n = 812 ) once - daily doses of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride 10 mg / 40 mg further decreased seated blood pressure compared to the respective monotherapy alone .
Combination therapy was effective in blacks and nonblacks .
Both components contributed to the antihypertensive efficacy in nonblacks , but virtually all of the antihypertensive effect in blacks could be attributed to the amlodipine component .
Among nonblack patients in placebo - controlled trials comparing amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride to the individual components , the blood pressure lowering effects of the combination were shown to be additive and in some cases synergistic .
During chronic therapy with amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , the maximum reduction in blood pressure with any given dose is generally achieved after 1 to 2 weeks .
The antihypertensive effects of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride have continued during therapy for at least 1 year .
Abrupt withdrawal of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Product : 50090 - 1042 NDC : 50090 - 1042 - 0 30 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 1042 - 1 90 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE Product : 50090 - 1418 NDC : 50090 - 1418 - 0 30 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE NDC : 50090 - 1418 - 1 90 CAPSULE in a BOTTLE 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Pregnancy : Advise female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Ask patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension : Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and that it should be reported to their healthcare provider .
Tell patients that if syncope occurs to discontinue amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules until the physician has been consulted .
Caution all patients that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] .
Hyperkalemia : Advise patients not to use salt substitutes without consulting their healthcare provider [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 ) ] .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 11 / 2021 Patient Information Amlodipine and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules USP ( am loe ' di peen and ben az ' e pril hye " droe klor ' ide ) Read this Patient Information leaflet before you start taking amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
• Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules can cause harm or death to an unborn baby .
• Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
• If you get pregnant while taking amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , tell your doctor right away .
What are amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules contain 2 prescription medicines that work together to lower blood pressure : amlodipine besylate , a calcium channel blocker , and benazepril hydrochloride , an ACE inhibitor .
Your doctor will prescribe amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules only after other medicines haven ’ t worked .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension ) .
Blood pressure is the force of blood in your blood vessels .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules have not been studied in children .
Who should not take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
Don ’ t take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules if you are allergic to any of the ingredients .
There is a complete list at the end of this leaflet .
What should I tell my Doctor before taking amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if : • you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ? ”
• you are breastfeeding .
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride is present in human milk .
It is not known whether amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride affects your breastfed baby or milk production .
• you have a heart condition • you have liver problems • you have kidney problems • you are about to have an operation ( including dental surgery ) or emergency treatment • you are suffering from several episodes of vomiting or diarrhea • you are treated for hyperkalemia ( too much potassium in the blood ) Keep a list of your medicines with you , including vitamins and natural or herbal remedies , to show your doctor or pharmacist .
Some of your other medicines and amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules could affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Tell your doctor about all your medicines , especially : • Simvastatin ( a medicine used to control elevated cholesterol ) • medicines for high blood pressure or heart failure • water pills , extra potassium or a salt substitute • Lithium • potassium - containing medicines , potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium • cyclosporine , an immunosuppressant medicine used in transplanted patients to reduce the risk of organ rejection • indomethacin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , medicines used to relieve pain and inflammation • insulin or oral antidiabetics , medicines that help a person with diabetes to control their level of glucose ( sugar ) in the blood • gold for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis • probenecid , a medicine used to treat gout and hyperuricemia • medicines used to prevent and treat fungal skin infections ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) • medicines used to treat AIDS or HIV infections ( e . g . , ritonavir , indinavir ) • medicines used to treat bacterial infections ( e . g . , clarithromycin ) • medicines used in organ transplant recipients or for treating some cancers ( e . g . temsirolimus , sirolimus , everolimus ) Avoid alcohol until you have discussed the matter with your doctor .
Alcohol may make blood pressure fall more and / or increase the possibility of dizziness or fainting .
How do I take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
• Take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules at the same time each day , with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is more than 12 hours , just take your next dose at the regular time .
• Your doctor may test for kidney problems or check your blood potassium level .
• If you take too much amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the emergency room .
• Tell all your doctors or dentist you are taking amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules if you : - are going to have surgery - are getting allergy shots for bee stings - go for kidney dialysis What are the possible side effects of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
Amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules can cause serious side effects including : • serious allergic reactions that can be life threatening .
Stop amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and get emergency help right away if you get : - swelling of your face , eyelids , lips , tongue or throat - have trouble swallowing - asthma ( wheezing ) or other breathing problems These allergic reactions are rare but happen more times in people who are African - American .
• low blood pressure ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you also take water pills , are on a low salt diet , get dialysis treatments , have heart problems or get sick with vomiting or diarrhea .
Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
• liver problems .
Call your doctor if : • you have nausea • you feel more tired or weaker than usual • you have itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • you have pain in your upper right stomach • you have flu - like symptoms • kidney problems .
Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and need a lower dose of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands or unexplained weight gain .
• more chest pain and heart attacks in people that already have severe heart problems .
Get emergency help if you get worse chest pain or chest pain that does not go away .
The more common side effects of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are : • dizziness , fainting on standing up • cough ( dry , nonproductive , mainly at night , continuing ) • swelling of the feet , ankles , and hands If any of these affects you severely , tell your doctor .
These are not all the side effects of amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I store amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
• Store amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules at room temperature between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
• Keep amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in a closed container in a dry place .
• Keep amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules Doctors can also use medicine for a condition that is not in the patient information leaflet .
Take amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules the way your doctor tells you .
Do not share it with other people .
They may harm them .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist , or call 1 - 866 - 850 - 2876 .
What are the ingredients in amlodipine and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ?
Active ingredients : amlodipine besylate ( the active ingredient found in Norvasc ® ) , benazepril hydrochloride ( Lotensin ® ) Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , gelatin , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , sodium lauryl sulfate , and titanium dioxide .
In addition , the hard gelatin capsule shells of 5 mg / 10 mg contains iron oxide black , iron oxide red , and iron oxide yellow , 5 mg / 20 mg contains iron oxide red , 5 mg / 40 mg and 10 mg / 40 mg contains FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 3 , and 10 mg / 20 mg contains D & C Red 28 , FD & C Blue 1 , FD & C Red 40 , and FD & C Yellow 5 .
The capsules are printed with edible ink containing black iron oxide and shellac .
The brands listed are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Aurobindo Pharma Limited Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 032 , India Revised : 11 / 2021 Amlodipine and Benazepril Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Amlodipine and Benazepril Hydrochloride [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
