TransdermScōp scopolamine 1 . 5 mg Transdermal Therapeutic System Programmed to deliver in - vivo approximately 1 . 0 mg of scopolamine over 3 days DESCRIPTION The Transderm Scōp ( transdermal scopolamine ) system is a circular flat patch designed for continuous release of scopolamine following application to an area of intact skin on the head , behind the ear .
Each system contains 1 . 5 mg of scopolamine base .
Scopolamine is a - ( hydroxymethyl ) benzeneacetic acid 9 - methyl - 3 - oxa - 9 - azatricyclo [ 3 . 3 . 1 . 02 , 4 ] non - 7 - yl ester .
The empirical formula is C17H21NO4 and its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Scopolamine is a viscous liquid that has a molecular weight of 303 . 35 and a pKa of 7 . 55 - 7 . 81 .
The Transderm Scōp system is a film 0 . 2 mm thick and 2 . 5 cm2 , with four layers .
Proceeding from the visible surface towards the surface attached to the skin , these layers are : ( 1 ) a backing layer of tan - colored , aluminized , polyester film ; ( 2 ) a drug reservoir of scopolamine , light mineral oil , and polyisobutylene ; ( 3 ) a microporous polypropylene membrane that controls the rate of delivery of scopolamine from the system to the skin surface ; and ( 4 ) an adhesive formulation of mineral oil , polyisobutylene , and scopolamine .
A protective peel strip of siliconized polyester , which covers the adhesive layer , is removed before the system is used .
The inactive components , light mineral oil ( 12 . 4 mg ) and polyisobutylene ( 11 . 4 mg ) , are not released from the system .
Cross section of the system : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacology The sole active agent of Transderm Scōp is scopolamine , a belladonna alkaloid with well - known pharmacological properties .
It is an anticholinergic agent which acts : i ) as a competitive inhibitor at postganglionic muscarinic receptor sites of the parasympathetic nervous system , and ii ) on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation .
It has been suggested that scopolamine acts in the central nervous system ( CNS ) by blocking cholinergic transmission from the vestibular nuclei to higher centers in the CNS and from the reticular formation to the vomiting center1 , 2 .
Scopolamine can inhibit the secretion of saliva and sweat , decrease gastrointestinal secretions and motility , cause drowsiness , dilate the pupils , increase heart rate , and depress motor function2 .
Pharmacokinetics Scopolamine ’ s activity is due to the parent drug .
The pharmacokinetics of scopolamine delivered via the system are due to the characteristics of both the drug and dosage form .
The system is programmed to deliver in - vivo approximately 1 . 0 mg of scopolamine at an approximately constant rate to the systemic circulation over 3 days .
Upon application to the post - auricular skin , an initial priming dose of scopolamine is released from the adhesive layer to saturate skin binding sites .
The subsequent delivery of scopolamine to the blood is determined by the rate controlling membrane and is designed to produce stable plasma levels in a therapeutic range .
Following removal of the used system , there is some degree of continued systemic absorption of scopolamine bound in the skin layers .
Absorption : Scopolamine is well - absorbed percutaneously .
Following application to the skin behind the ear , circulating plasma levels are detected within 4 hours with peak levels being obtained , on average , within 24 hours .
The average plasma concentration produced is 87 pg / mL for free scopolamine and 354 pg / mL for total scopolamine ( free + conjugates ) .
Distribution : The distribution of scopolamine is not well characterized .
It crosses the placenta and the blood brain barrier and may be reversibly bound to plasma proteins .
Metabolism : Although not well characterized , scopolamine is extensively metabolized and conjugated with less than 5 % of the total dose appearing unchanged in the urine .
Elimination : The exact elimination pattern of scopolamine has not been determined .
Following patch removal , plasma levels decline in a log linear fashion with an observed half - life of 9 . 5 hours .
Less than 10 % of the total dose is excreted in the urine as parent and metabolites over 108 hours .
Clinical Results : In 195 adult subjects of different racial origins who participated in clinical efficacy studies at sea or in a controlled motion environment , there was a 75 % reduction in the incidence of motion - induced nausea and vomiting3 .
In two pivotal clinical efficacy studies in 391 adult female patients undergoing cesarean section or gynecological surgery with anesthesia and opiate analgesia , 66 % of those treated with Transderm Scōp ( compared to only 46 % of those receiving placebo ) reported no retching / vomiting within the 24 - hour period following administration of anesthesia / opiate analgesia .
When the need for additional antiemetic medication was assessed during the same period , there was no need for medication in 76 % of patients treated with Transderm Scōp as compared to 59 % of placebo - treated patients 4 , 5 .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Transderm Scōp is indicated in adults for prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness and recovery from anesthesia and surgery .
The patch should be applied only to skin in the postauricular area .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Transderm Scōp is contraindicated in persons who are hypersensitive to the drug scopolamine or to other belladonna alkaloids , or to any ingredient or component in the formulation or delivery system , or in patients with angle - closure ( narrow angle ) glaucoma .
WARNINGS Glaucoma therapy in patients with chronic open - angle ( wide - angle ) glaucoma should be monitored and may need to be adjusted during Transderm Scōp use , as the mydriatic effect of scopolamine may cause an increase in intraocular pressure .
Transderm Scōp should not be used in children and should be used with caution in the elderly .
See PRECAUTIONS .
Since drowsiness , disorientation , and confusion may occur with the use of scopolamine , patients should be warned of the possibility and cautioned against engaging in activities that require mental alertness , such as driving a motor vehicle or operating dangerous machinery .
Rarely , idiosyncratic reactions may occur with ordinary therapeutic doses of scopolamine .
The most serious of these that have been reported are : acute toxic psychosis , including confusion , agitation , rambling speech , hallucinations , paranoid behaviors , and delusions .
PRECAUTIONS General Scopolamine should be used with caution in patients with pyloric obstruction or urinary bladder neck obstruction .
Caution should be exercised when administering an antiemetic or antimuscarinic drug to patients suspected of having intestinal obstruction .
Transderm Scōp should be used with caution in the elderly or in individuals with impaired liver or kidney functions because of the increased likelihood of CNS effects .
Caution should be exercised in patients with a history of seizures or psychosis , since scopolamine can potentially aggravate both disorders .
Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal systems during a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because Transderm Scōp ® contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
Information for Patients Since scopolamine can cause temporary dilation of the pupils and blurred vision if it comes in contact with the eyes , patients should be strongly advised to wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the patch .
In addition , it is important that used patches be disposed of properly to avoid contact with children or pets .
Patients should be advised to remove the patch immediately and promptly contact a physician in the unlikely event that they experience symptoms of acute narrow - angle glaucoma ( pain and reddening of the eyes , accompanied by dilated pupils ) .
Patients should also be instructed to remove the patch if they develop any difficulties in urinating .
Patients who expect to participate in underwater sports should be cautioned regarding the potentially disorienting effects of scopolamine .
A patient brochure is available .
Drug Interactions The absorption of oral medications may be decreased during the concurrent use of scopolamine because of decreased gastric motility and delayed gastric emptying .
Scopolamine should be used with care in patients taking other drugs that are capable of causing CNS effects such as sedatives , tranquilizers , or alcohol .
Special attention should be paid to potential interactions with drugs having anticholinergic properties ; e . g . , other belladonna alkaloids , antihistamines ( including meclizine ) , tricyclic antidepressants , and muscle relaxants .
Laboratory Test Interactions Scopolamine will interfere with the gastric secretion test .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been completed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of scopolamine .
The mutagenic potential of scopolamine has not been evaluated .
Fertility studies were performed in female rats and revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to scopolamine hydrobromide administered by daily subcutaneous injection .
Maternal body weights were reduced in the highest - dose group ( plasma level approximately 500 times the level achieved in humans using a transdermal system ) .
Pregnancy Category C Teratogenic studies were performed in pregnant rats and rabbits with scopolamine hydrobromide administered by daily intravenous injection .
No adverse effects were recorded in rats .
Scopolamine hydrobromide has been shown to have a marginal embryotoxic effect in rabbits when administered by daily intravenous injection at doses producing plasma levels approximately 100 times the level achieved in humans using a transdermal system .
During a clinical study among women undergoing cesarean section treated with Transderm Scōp in conjunction with epidural anesthesia and opiate analgesia , no evidence of CNS depression was found in the newborns .
There are no other adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Other than in the adjunctive use for delivery by cesarean section , Transderm Scōp should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers Because scopolamine is excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Transderm Scōp is administered to a nursing woman .
Labor and Delivery Scopolamine administered parenterally at higher doses than the dose delivered by Transderm Scōp does not increase the duration of labor , nor does it affect uterine contractions .
Scopolamine does cross the placenta .
Pediatric Use The safety and effectiveness of Transderm Scōp in children has not been established .
Children are particularly susceptible to the side effects of belladonna alkaloids .
Transderm Scōp should not be used in children because it is not known whether this system will release an amount of scopolamine that could produce serious adverse effects in children .
ADVERSE DRUG EXPERIENCES The adverse reactions for Transderm Scōp are provided separately for patients with motion sickness and with post - operative nausea and vomiting .
Motion Sickness : In motion sickness clinical studies of Transderm Scōp , the most frequent adverse reaction was dryness of the mouth .
This occurred in about two thirds of patients on drug .
A less frequent adverse drug reaction was drowsiness , which occurred in less than one sixth of patients on drug .
Transient impairment of eye accommodation , including blurred vision and dilation of the pupils , was also observed .
Post - operative Nausea and Vomiting : In a total of five clinical studies in which Transderm Scōp was administered perioperatively to a total of 461 patients and safety was assessed , dry mouth was the most frequently reported adverse drug experience , which occurred in approximately 29 % of patients on drug .
Dizziness was reported by approximately 12 % of patients on drug6 .
Postmarketing and Other Experience : In addition to the adverse experiences reported during clinical testing of Transderm Scōp , the following are spontaneously reported adverse events from postmarketing experience .
Because the reports cite events reported spontaneously from worldwide postmarketing experience , frequency of events and the role of Transderm Scōp in their causation cannot be reliably determined : acute angle - closure ( narrow - angle ) glaucoma ; confusion ; difficulty urinating ; dry , itchy , or conjunctival injection of eyes ; restlessness ; hallucinations ; memory disturbances ; rashes and erythema ; and transient changes in heart rate .
Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms : Symptoms such as dizziness , nausea , vomiting , and headache occur following abrupt discontinuation of antimuscarinics .
Similar symptoms , including disturbances of equilibrium , have been reported in some patients following discontinuation of use of the Transderm Scōp system .
These symptoms usually do not appear until 24 hours or more after the patch has been removed .
Some symptoms may be related to adaptation from a motion environment to a motion - free environment .
More serious symptoms including muscle weakness , bradycardia and hypotension may occur following discontinuation of Transderm Scōp .
OVERDOSAGE Because strategies for the management of drug overdose continually evolve , it is strongly recommended that a poison control center be contacted to obtain up - to - date information regarding the management of Transderm Scōp patch overdose .
The prescriber should be mindful that antidotes used routinely in the past may no longer be considered optimal treatment .
For example , physostigmine , used more or less routinely in the past , is seldom recommended for the routine management of anticholinergic syndromes .
Until up - to - date authoritative advice is obtained , routine supportive measures should be directed to maintaining adequate respiratory and cardiac function .
The signs and symptoms of anticholinergic toxicity include : lethargy , somnolence , coma , confusion , agitation , hallucinations , convulsion , visual disturbance , dry flushed skin , dry mouth , decreased bowel sounds , urinary retention , tachycardia , hypertension , and supraventricular arrhythmias .
Most cases of toxicity involving the use of the product will resolve with simple removal of the patch .
Serious symptomatic cases of overdosage involving multiple patch applications and / or ingestion may be managed by initially ensuring the patient has an adequate airway , and supporting respiration and circulation .
This should be rapidly followed by removal of all patches from the skin and the mouth .
If there is evidence of patch ingestion , gastric lavage , endoscopic removal of swallowed patches , or administration of activated charcoal should be considered , as indicated by the clinical situation .
In any case where there is serious overdosage or signs of evolving acute toxicity , continuous monitoring of vital signs and ECG , establishment of intravenous access , and administration of oxygen are all recommended .
The symptoms of overdose / toxicity due to scopolamine should be carefully distinguished from the occasionally observed syndrome of withdrawal ( see Drug Withdrawal / Post Removal Symptoms ) .
Although mental confusion and dizziness may be observed with both acute toxicity and withdrawal , other characteristic findings differ : tachyarrhythmias , dry skin , and decreased bowel sounds suggest anticholinergic toxicity , while bradycardia , headache , nausea and abdominal cramps , and sweating suggest post - removal withdrawal .
Obtaining a careful history is crucial to making the correct diagnosis .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Initiation of Therapy : To prevent the nausea and vomiting associated with motion sickness , one Transderm Scōp patch ( programmed to deliver approximately 1 . 0 mg of scopolamine over 3 days ) should be applied to the hairless area behind one ear at least 4 hours before the antiemetic effect is required .
To prevent post operative nausea and vomiting , the patch should be applied the evening before scheduled surgery .
To minimize exposure of the newborn baby to the drug , apply the patch one hour prior to cesarean section .
Only one patch should be worn at any time .
Do not cut the patch .
Handling : After the patch is applied on dry skin behind the ear , the hands should be washed thoroughly with soap and water and dried .
Upon removal , the patch should be discarded .
To prevent any traces of scopolamine from coming into direct contact with the eyes , the hands and the application site should be washed thoroughly with soap and water and dried .
( A patient brochure is available ) .
Continuation of Therapy : Should the patch become displaced , it should be discarded , and a fresh one placed on the hairless area behind the other ear .
For motion sickness , if therapy is required for longer than 3 days , the first patch should be removed and a fresh one placed on the hairless area behind the other ear .
For perioperative use , the patch should be kept in place for 24 hours following surgery at which time it should be removed and discarded .
HOW SUPPLIED The Transderm Scōp system is a tan - colored circular patch , 2 . 5 cm2 , on a clear , oversized , hexagonal peel strip , which is removed prior to use .
Each Transderm Scōp system contains 1 . 5 mg of scopolamine and is programmed to deliver in - vivo approximately 1 . 0 mg of scopolamine over 3 days .
Transderm Scōp is available in packages of four patches .
Each patch is foil wrapped .
Patient instructions are included .
1 Package ( 4 patches ) NDC 54868 - 2803 - 1 The system should be stored at controlled room temperature between 20 ° C - 25 ° C ( 68 ° F - 77 ° F ) .
Rx ONLY REFERENCES • McEvoy , G . K . ( ed . )
; AHSF Drug Information ; American Society of Hospital Pharmacists , Bethesda , MD , pp . 608 - 611 ( 1990 ) .
• Gilman , A . G . et al ( ed . )
; The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics ( 8 th Ed . )
; Pergamon Press , New York , NY , pp . 150 - 165 ( 1990 ) .
• Pharmacokinetic Clinical data on file .
• Kotelko , D . M . et al ; “ Transdermal scopolamine decreases nausea and vomiting following cesarean section in patients receiving epidural morphine ” , Anesthesiology 71 ( 5 ) : 675 - 678 ( 1989 ) .
• Bailey , P . L . et al ; “ Transdermal scopolamine reduces nausea and vomiting after outpatient laparoscopy ” , Anesthesiology 72 ( 6 ) : 977 - 980 ( 1990 ) .
• Clinical safety data on file .
Mfd by : ALZA Corporation Mountain View , CA 94043 Distributed by : Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0622 © 2006 42013 C Printed in U . S . A . ( Rev . 2 / 06 ) Distributed by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 Patient Package Insert Please read this instruction sheet care - fully before opening the system package .
Information for the Patient TransdermScōp Generic Name : scopolamine , pronouncedskoe - POL - a - meen Transdermal Therapeutic System The Transderm Scōp system helps to prevent the nausea and vomiting of motion sickness for up to 3 days .
It is a round adhesive patch that you place behind your ear several hours before you travel .
It also helps to prevent the nausea and vomiting associated with the use of anesthesia and certain analgesics used during or after many types of surgery .
If the patch is to be used in conjunction with scheduled surgery , it is applied the evening before surgery .
For cesarean section , the patch is applied one hour prior to surgery to minimize exposure of the unborn child to the drug .
Wear only one patch at any time .
Be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water immediately after handling the patch , so that any drug that might get on your hands will not come into contact with your eyes .
Avoid drinking alcohol while using Transderm Scōp .
Also , be careful about driving or operating any machinery while using the system because the drug might make you drowsy .
DO NOT USE TRANSDERM SCŌP IF YOU ARE ALLERGIC TO SCOPOLAMINE .
TRANSDERM SCŌP SHOULD NOT BE USED IN CHILDREN AND SHOULD BE USED WITH CAUTION IN THE ELDERLY .
How the Transderm Scōp System Works A group of nerve fibers deep inside the ear helps people keep their balance .
For some people , the motion of ships , airplanes , trains , automobiles , and buses increases the activity of these nerve fibers .
This increased activity causes the dizziness , nausea , and vomiting of motion sickness .
People may have one , some , or all of these symptoms .
Transderm Scōp contains the drug scopolamine , which helps reduce the activity of the nerve fibers in the inner ear .
When a Transderm Scōp patch is placed on the skin behind one of the ears , scopolamine passes through the skin and into the bloodstream .
One patch may be kept in place for 3 days if needed .
It has been suggested that Transderm Scōp , when used to reduce nausea and vomiting associated with surgical anesthesia or analgesia , acts on the same nerve fibers that are affected when the product is taken for motion sickness .
Precautions Before using Transderm Scōp , be sure to tell your doctor if you : • Are pregnant or nursing ( or plan to become pregnant ) • Have ( or have had ) glaucoma ( increased pressure in the eyeball ) or a predisposition to glaucoma • Have ( or have had ) any metabolic , heart , liver , kidney , or other serious medical conditions • Have any obstruction of the stomach or intestine • Have any trouble urinating due to prostate enlargement or any bladder obstruction • Have any allergy or have had a reaction such as a skin rash or redness to any drug , especially scopolamine , or chemical or food substance Any of these conditions could make Transderm Scōp unsuitable for you .
Also tell your doctor if you are taking any other medicines .
In the unlikely event that you experience pain in the eye and reddened whites of the eye while wearing the patch , which may be accompanied by widening of the pupil and blurred vision , remove the patch immediately and consult your doctor .
As indicated below under Side Effects , widening of the pupils and blurred vision without pain or reddened whites of the eye is usually temporary and not serious .
Transderm Scōp should not be used in children .
The safety of its use in children has not been determined .
Children and the elderly may be particularly sensitive to the effects of scopolamine .
Skin burns have been reported at the patch site in several patients wearing an aluminized transdermal systems during a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan ( MRI ) .
Because Transderm Scop ® contains aluminum , it is recommended to remove the system before undergoing an MRI .
Side Effects The most common side effect experienced by people using Transderm Scōp is dryness of the mouth .
This occurs in about two thirds of the people .
A less frequent side effect is drowsiness , which occurs in less than one sixth of the people .
Temporary blurring of vision and dilation ( widening ) of the pupils may occur , especially if the drug is on your hands and comes in contact with the eyes .
On infrequent occasions , disorientation , memory disturbances , dizziness , restlessness , hallucinations , confusion , difficulty urinating , skin rashes or redness , temporary changes in heart rate such as palpitations , dry itchy , or reddened whites of the eyes , and eye pain have been reported .
If these effects do occur , remove the patch and call your doctor .
Since drowsiness , disorientation , and confusion may occur with the use of scopolamine , be careful driving or operating any dangerous machinery , especially when you first start using the drug system .
In addition , if you plan to participate in underwater sports while wearing the patch , you should discuss with your doctor the potentially disorienting effects of scopolamine .
Eye Effects : Temporary blurring of vision and dilation ( widening ) of the pupils may occur , especially if the drug is on your fingers or hands and comes into contact with the eyes .
Dry , itchy , or reddened whites of the eye and eye pain have been reported infrequently .
In the unlikely event that you experience pain in the eye and reddened whites of the eye , which may be accompanied by widening of the pupil and blurred vision , remove the patch and consult your doctor promptly .
Widening of the pupils and blurred vision without pain , or reddened whites of the eye , is usually temporary and not serious .
Drug Withdrawal / Post - Removal Symptoms : Symptoms such as dizziness , nausea , vomiting , headache , and disturbances of equilibrium have been reported by some people following discontinuation of use of the Transderm Scōp patch .
These symptoms have occurred most often in people who have used the patches for more than 3 days , and frequently do not appear until 24 hours or more after the patch has been removed .
These symptoms may be associated with adaptation from a motion environment to a motion - free environment .
It is recommended that you consult with your doctor if these symptoms persist .
How to Use Transderm Scōp Transderm Scōp should be stored at controlled room temperature between 20 ° C and 25 ° C ( 68 ° F and 77 ° F ) until you are ready to use it .
• For the prevention of motion sickness , plan to apply one Transderm Scōp patch at least 4 hours before you need it .
If the patch is to be used in conjunction with scheduled surgery , it is applied the evening before surgery .
For cesarean section , the patch is applied one hour prior to surgery to minimize exposure of the unborn child to the drug .
Wear only one patch at any time .
Do not cut the patch .
• Select a hairless area of skin behind one ear , taking care to avoid any cuts or irritations .
Wipe the area with a clean , dry tissue .
• Cut along dotted line to open the pouch and then remove the patch ( Figure 1 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Remove the clear plastic six - sided backing from the round patch .
Try not to touch the adhesive surface on the patch with your hands ( Figure 2 ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Firmly apply the adhesive surface ( metallic side ) to the dry area of skin behind the ear so that the tan - colored side is showing ( Figure 3 ) .
Make good contact , especially around the edge .
Once you have placed the patch behind your ear , do not move it for as long as you want to use it ( e . g . , up to 3 days for prevention of motion sickness ) .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] • Important : After the patch is in place , be sure to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water to remove any scopolamine .
If this drug were to come into contact with your eyes , it could cause temporary blurring of vision and dilation ( widening ) of the pupils ( the dark circles in the center of your eyes ) .
Unless accompanied by eye pain and reddened whites of the eyes ( see Precautions ) , this is not serious and your pupils should return to normal .
• If the patch is being used to prevent the nausea and vomiting of motion sickness , remove the patch after 3 days and throw it away .
( You may remove it sooner if you are no longer concerned about motion sickness ) .
If the patch is being used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with anesthesia or analgesia , the patch should be kept in place for 24 hours following surgery at which time it should be removed and discarded .
After removing the patch , be sure to wash your hands and the area behind your ear thoroughly with soap and water .
Since the patch will still contain some active ingredient after use , and to avoid accidental contact or ingestion by children or pets , fold the used patch in half with the sticky side together and dispose in the trash out of the reach of children and pets .
• If you wish to control the nausea and vomiting of motion sickness for longer than 3 days , remove the first patch after 3 days and place a new one behind the other ear , repeating instructions 2 through 7 .
• Keep the patch dry , if possible , to prevent it from falling off .
Limited contact with water , however , as in bathing or swimming , will not affect the system .
In the unlikely event that the patch falls off , throw it away and put a new one behind the other ear .
• Please inform your doctor if you are taking other medications , including over - the - counter medications .
This leaflet presents a summary of information about Transderm Scōp .
If you would like more information or if you have any questions , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
A more technical leaflet is available , written for your doctor .
If you would like to read the leaflet , ask your pharmacist to show you a copy .
You may need the help of your doctor or pharmacist to understand some of the information .
Mfd .
by : ALZA Corporation Mountain View , CA 94043 Distributed by : Novartis Consumer Health , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 - 0622 © 2006 42014 C Printed in U . S . A . ( Rev . 2 / 06 ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
