Information for Patients Information for Patients Patients should be advised to take metoprolol regularly and continuously , as directed , with or immediately following meals .
If a dose should be missed , the patient should take only the next scheduled dose ( without doubling it ) .
Patients should not discontinue metoprolol without consulting the physician .
Patients should be advised ( 1 ) to avoid operating automobiles and machinery or engaging in other tasks requiring alertness until the patient ’ s response to therapy with metoprolol has been determined ; ( 2 ) to contact the physician if any difficulty in breathing occurs ; ( 3 ) to inform the physician or dentist before any type of surgery that he or she is taking metoprolol .
Drug Interactions Catecholamine - depleting drugs : Catecholamine - depleting drugs ( e . g . , reserpine ) may have an additive effect when given with beta - blocking agents or monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors .
Observe patients treated with Metoprolol Tartrate plus a catecholamine depletor for evidence of hypotension or marked bradycardia , which may produce vertigo , syncope , or postural hypotension .
In addition , possibly significant hypertension may theoretically occur up to 14 days following discontinuation of the concomitant administration with an irreversible MAO inhibitor .
Digitalis glycosides and beta blockers : Both digitalis glycosides and beta blockers slow atrioventricular conduction and decrease heart rate .
Concomitant use can increase the risk of bradycardia .
Monitor heart rate and PR interval .
Calcium channel blockers : Concomitant administration of a beta - adrenergic antagonist with a calcium channel blocker may produce an additive reduction in myocardial contractility because of negative chronotropic and inotropic effects .
Risk of Anaphylactic Reaction : While taking beta - blockers , patients with a history of severe anaphylactic reaction to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge , either accidental , diagnostic , or therapeutic .
Such patients may be unresponsive to the usual doses of epinephrine used to treat allergic reaction .
General Anesthetics : Some inhalation anesthetics may enhance the cardiodepressant effect of beta blockers ( see WARNINGS , Major Surgery ) .
CYP2D6 Inhibitors : Potent inhibitors of the CYP2D6 enzyme may increase the plasma concentration of Metoprolol Tartrate which would mimic the pharmacokinetics of CYP2D6 poor metabolizer ( see Pharmacokinetics section ) .
Increase in plasma concentrations of metoprolol would decrease the cardioselectivity of metoprolol .
Known clinically significant potent inhibitors of CYP2D6 are antidepressants such as fluvoxamine , fluoxetine , paroxetine , sertraline , bupropion , clomipramine , and desipramine ; antipsychotics such as chlorpromazine , fluphenazine , haloperidol , and thioridazine ; antiarrhythmics such as quinidine or propafenone ; antiretrovirals such as ritonavir ; antihistamines such as diphenhydramine ; antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine or quinidine ; antifungals such as terbinafine .
Hydralazine : Concomitant administration of hydralazine may inhibit presystemic metabolism of metoprolol leading to increased concentrations of metoprolol .
Alpha - adrenergic agents : Antihypertensive effect of alpha - adrenergic blockers such as guanethidine , betanidine , reserpine , alpha - methyldopa or clonidine may be potentiated by beta - blockers including Metoprolol Tartrate .
Beta - adrenergic blockers may also potentiate the postural hypotensive effect of the first dose of prazosin , probably by preventing reflex tachycardia .
On the contrary , beta adrenergic blockers may also potentiate the hypertensive response to withdrawal of clonidine in patients receiving concomitant clonidine and beta - adrenergic blocker .
If a patient is treated with clonidine and Metoprolol Tartrate concurrently , and clonidine treatment is to be discontinued , stop Metoprolol Tartrate several days before clonidine is withdrawn .
Rebound hypertension that can follow withdrawal of clonidine may be increased in patients receiving concurrent beta - blocker treatment .
Ergot alkaloid : Concomitant administration with beta - blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids Dipyridamole : In general , administration of a beta - blocker should be withheld before dipyridamole testing , with careful monitoring of heart rate following the dipyridamole injection .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have been conducted to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
In a 2 - year study in rats at three oral dosage levels of up to 800 mg / kg per day , there was no increase in the development of spontaneously occurring benign or malignant neoplasms of any type .
The only histologic changes that appeared to be drug related were an increased incidence of generally mild focal accumulation of foamy macrophages in pulmonary alveoli and a slight increase in biliary hyperplasia .
In a 21 - month study in Swiss albino mice at three oral dosage levels of up to 750 mg / kg per day , benign lung tumors ( small adenomas ) occurred more frequently in female mice receiving the highest dose than in untreated control animals .
There was no increase in malignant or total ( benign plus malignant ) lung tumors , or in the overall incidence of tumors or malignant tumors .
This 21 - month study was repeated in CD - 1 mice , and no statistically or biologically significant differences were observed between treated and control mice of either sex for any type of tumor .
All mutagenicity tests performed ( a dominant lethal study in mice , chromosome studies in somatic cells , a Salmonella / mammalian - microsome mutagenicity test , and a nucleus anomaly test in somatic interphase nuclei ) were negative .
Reproduction toxicity studies in mice , rats and rabbits did not indicate teratogenic potential for metoprolol tartrate .
Embryotoxicity and / or fetotoxicity in rats and rabbits were noted starting at doses of 50 mg / kg in rats and 25 mg / kg in rabbits , as demonstrated by increases in preimplantation loss , decreases in the number of viable fetuses per dose , and / or decreases in neonatal survival .
High doses were associated with some maternal toxicity , and growth delay of the offspring in utero , which was reflected in minimally lower weights at birth .
The oral NOAELs for embryo - fetal development in mice , rats , and rabbits were considered to be 25 , 200 , and 12 . 5 mg / kg .
This corresponds to dose levels that are approximately 0 . 3 , 4 , and 0 . 5 times , respectively , when based on surface area , the maximum human oral dose ( 8 mg / kg / day ) of metoprolol tartrate .
Metoprolol tartrate has been associated with reversible adverse effects on spermatogenesis starting at oral dose levels of 3 . 5 mg / kg in rats ( a dose that is only 0 . 1 - times the human dose , when based on surface area ) , although other studies have shown no effect of metoprolol tartrate on reproductive performance in male rats .
Pregnancy Category C Upon confirming the diagnosis of pregnancy , women should immediately inform the doctor .
Metoprolol has been shown to increase postimplantation loss and decrease neonatal survival in rats at doses up to 11 times the maximum daily human dose of 450 mg , when based on surface area .
Distribution studies in mice confirm exposure of the fetus when metoprolol is administered to the pregnant animal .
These limited animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to teratogenicity ( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
The amount of data on the use of metoprolol in pregnant women is limited .
The risk to the fetus / mother is unknown .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Metoprolol is excreted in breast milk in a very small quantity .
An infant consuming 1 liter of breast milk daily would receive a dose of less than 1 mg of the drug .
Fertility : The effects of Metoprolol Tartrate on the fertility of human have not been studied .
Metoprolol Tartrate showed effects on spermatogenesis in male rats at a therapeutic dose level , but had no effect on rates of conception at higher doses in animal fertility studies ( see Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility ) .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical trials of metoprolol tartrate USP , in hypertension did not include sufficient numbers of elderly patients to determine whether patients over 65 years of age differ from younger subjects in their response to metoprolol tartrate .
Other reported clinical experience in elderly hypertensive patients has not identified any difference in response from younger patients .
In worldwide clinical trials of metoprolol tartrate in myocardial infarction , where approximately 478 patients were over 65 years of age ( 0 over 75 years of age ) , no age - related differences in safety and effectiveness were found .
Other reported clinical experience in myocardial infarction has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients .
However , greater sensitivity of some elderly individuals taking metoprolol tartrate cannot be categorically ruled out .
Therefore , in general , it is recommended that dosing proceed with caution in this population .
Adverse Reactions ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension and Angina Most adverse effects have been mild and transient .
Central Nervous System : Tiredness and dizziness have occurred in about 10 of 100 patients .
Depression has been reported in about 5 of 100 patients .
Mental confusion and short - term memory loss have been reported .
Headache , nightmares , and insomnia have also been reported .
Cardiovascular : Shortness of breath and bradycardia have occurred in approximately 3 of 100 patients .
Cold extremities ; arterial insufficiency , usually of the Raynaud type ; palpitations ; congestive heart failure ; peripheral edema ; and hypotension have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients .
Gangrene in patients with pre - existing severe peripheral circulatory disorders has also been reported very rarely .
Respiratory : Wheezing ( bronchospasm ) and dyspnea have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients ( see WARNINGS ) .
Rhinitis has also been reported .
Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea has occurred in about 5 of 100 patients .
Nausea , dry mouth , gastric pain , constipation , flatulence , and heartburn have been reported in about 1 of 100 patients .
Vomiting was a common occurrence .
Post - marketing experience reveals very rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice and non - specific hepatic dysfunction .
Isolated cases of transaminase , alkaline phosphatase and lactic dehydrogenase elevations have also been reported .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Pruritus or rash have occurred in about 5 of 100 patients .
Very rarely , photosensitivity and worsening of psoriasis has been reported .
Miscellaneous : Peyronie ’ s disease has been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 , 000 patients .
Musculoskeletal pain , blurred vision , and tinnitus have also been reported .
There have been rare reports of reversible alopecia , agranulocytosis , and dry eyes .
Discontinuation of the drug should be considered if any such reaction is not otherwise explicable .
There have been very rare reports of weight gain , arthritis , and retroperitoneal fibrosis ( relationship to metoprolol has not been definitely established ) .
The oculomucocutaneous syndrome associated with the beta blocker practolol has not been reported with metoprolol .
Myocardial Infarction Central Nervous System : Tiredness has been reported in about 1 of 100 patients .
Vertigo , sleep disturbances , hallucinations , headache , dizziness , visual disturbances , confusion , and reduced libido have also been reported , but a drug relationship is not clear .
Cardiovascular : In the randomized comparison of metoprolol and placebo described in the CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY section , the following adverse reactions were reported : metoprolol Placebo Hypotension ( systolic BP < 90 mmHg ) 27 . 4 % 23 . 2 % Bradycardia ( heart rate < 40 beats / min ) 15 . 9 % 6 . 7 % Second - or third - degree heart block 4 . 7 % 4 . 7 % First - degree heart block ( P - R ≥ 0 . 26 sec ) 5 . 3 % 1 . 9 % Heart failure 27 . 5 % 29 . 6 % Respiratory : Dyspnea of pulmonary origin has been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 patients .
Gastrointestinal : Nausea and abdominal pain have been reported in fewer than 1 of 100 patients .
Dermatologic : Rash and worsened psoriasis have been reported , but a drug relationship is not clear .
Miscellaneous : Unstable diabetes and claudication have been reported , but a drug relationship is not clear .
Potential Adverse Reactions A variety of adverse reactions not listed above have been reported with other beta - adrenergic blocking agents and should be considered potential adverse reactions to metoprolol .
Central Nervous System : Reversible mental depression progressing to catatonia ; an acute reversible syndrome characterized by disorientation for time and place , short - term memory loss , emotional lability , slightly clouded sensorium , and decreased performance on neuropsychometrics .
Cardiovascular : Intensification of AV block .
Hematologic : Agranulocytosis , nonthrombocytopenic purpura , thrombocytopenic purpura .
Hypersensitive Reactions : Fever combined with aching and sore throat , laryngospasm , and respiratory distress .
Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported during postapproval use of Metoprolol Tartrate : confusional state , an increase in blood triglycerides and a decrease in High Density Lipoprotein ( HDL ) .
Because these reports are from a population of uncertain size and are subject to confounding factors , it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency .
Online drug information link For complete manufacturer ' s drug information please visit this online link : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = c9a87c39 - 4 baf - 43e2 - b6bc - 3634f1eb77cf Indication and usage INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hypertension Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated for the treatment of hypertension .
They may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
Angina Pectoris Metoprolol tartrate tablets are indicated in the long - term treatment of angina pectoris .
Myocardial Infarction Metoprolol tartrate injection and tablets are indicated in the treatment of hemodynamically stable patients with definite or suspected acute myocardial infarction to reduce cardiovascular mortality .
Treatment with intravenous metoprolol tartrate can be initiated as soon as the patient ’ s clinical condition allows ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION , CONTRAINDICATIONS , and WARNINGS ) .
Alternatively , treatment can begin within 3 to 10 days of the acute event ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Contraindications Hypertension and Angina Metoprolol tartrate is contraindicated in sinus bradycardia , heart block greater than first degree , cardiogenic shock , and overt cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypersensitivity to metoprolol and related derivatives , or to any of the excipients ; hypersensitivity to other beta - blockers ( cross sensitivity between beta - blockers can occur ) .
Sick - sinus syndrome .
Severe peripheral arterial circulatory disorders .
Myocardial Infarction Metoprolol is contraindicated in patients with a heart rate < 45 beats / min ; second - and third - degree heart block ; significant first - degree heart block ( P - R interval ≥ 0 . 24 sec ) ; systolic blood pressure < 100 mmHg ; or moderate - to - severe cardiac failure ( see WARNINGS ) .
Hypertension and Angina Cardiac Failure : Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function in congestive heart failure , and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of further depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating more severe failure In Patients Without a History of Cardiac Failure : Continued depression of the myocardium with beta - blocking agents over a period of time can , in some cases , lead to cardiac failure .
At the first sign or symptom of impending cardiac failure , fully digitalize patients and / or given a diuretic .
The response should be observed closely .
If cardiac failure continues , despite adequate digitalization and diuretic therapy , metoprolol should be withdrawn .
Ischemic Heart Disease : Following abrupt cessation of therapy with certain beta - blocking agents , exacerbations of angina pectoris and , in some cases , myocardial infarction have occurred .
When discontinuing chronically administered metoprolol , particularly in patients with ischemic heart disease , the dosage should be gradually reduced over a period of 1 to 2 weeks and the patient should be carefully monitored .
If angina markedly worsens or acute coronary insufficiency develops , metoprolol administration should be reinstated promptly , at least temporarily , and other measures appropriate for the management of unstable angina should be taken .
Patients should be warned against interruption or discontinuation of therapy without the physician ’ s advice .
Because coronary artery disease is common and may be unrecognized , it may be prudent not to discontinue metoprolol therapy abruptly even in patients treated only for hypertension .
Bronchospastic Diseases : PATIENTS WITH BRONCHOSPASTIC DISEASES SHOULD , IN GENERAL , NOT RECEIVE BETA BLOCKERS , including Metoprolol tartrate .
Because of its relative beta1 selectivity , however , metoprolol may be used with caution in patients with bronchospastic disease who do not respond to , or cannot tolerate , other antihypertensive treatment .
Since beta1 selectivity is not absolute , a beta2 - stimulating agent should be administered concomitantly , and the lowest possible dose of metoprolol tartrate should be used .
In these circumstances it would be prudent initially to administer metoprolol in smaller doses three times daily , instead of larger doses two times daily , to avoid the higher plasma levels associated with the longer dosing interval ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Major Surgery : Chronically administered beta - blocking therapy should not be routinely withdrawn prior to major surgery ; however , the impaired ability of the heart to respond to reflex adrenergic stimuli may augment the risks of general anesthesia and surgical procedures .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : Beta blockers may mask tachycardia occurring with hypoglycemia , but other manifestations such as dizziness and sweating may not be significantly affected .
Pheochromocytoma : If metoprolol is used in the setting of pheochromocytoma , it should be given in combination with an alpha blocker , and only after the alpha blocker has been initiated .
Administration of beta blockers alone in the setting of pheochromocytoma has been associated with a paradoxical increase in blood pressure due to the attenuation of beta - mediated vasodilatation in skeletal muscle .
Thyrotoxicosis : Beta - adrenergic blockade may mask certain clinical signs ( e . g . , tachycardia ) of hyperthyroidism .
Avoid abrupt withdrawal of beta blockade , which might precipitate a thyroid storm .
Myocardial Infarction Cardiac Failure : Sympathetic stimulation is a vital component supporting circulatory function , and beta blockade carries the potential hazard of depressing myocardial contractility and precipitating or exacerbating minimal cardiac failure .
During treatment with metoprolol , the hemodynamic status of the patient should be carefully monitored .
If heart failure occurs or persists despite appropriate treatment , metoprolol should be discontinued .
Bradycardia : Metoprolol produces a decrease in sinus heart rate in most patients ; this decrease is greatest among patients with high initial heart rates and least among patients with low initial heart rates .
Acute myocardial infarction ( particularly inferior infarction ) may in itself produce significant lowering of the sinus rate .
If the sinus rate decreases to < 40 beats / min , particularly if associated with evidence of lowered cardiac output , atropine ( 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg ) should be administered intravenously .
If treatment with atropine is not successful , metoprolol should be discontinued , and cautious administration of isoproterenol or installation of a cardiac pacemaker should be considered .
AV Block : Metoprolol slows AV conduction and may produce significant first - ( P - R intervals ≥ 0 . 26 sec ) , second - , or third - degree heart block .
Acute myocardial infarction also produces heart block .
If heart block occurs , metoprolol should be discontinued and atropine ( 0 . 25 to 0 . 5 mg ) should be administered intravenously .
If treatment with atropine is not successful , cautious administration of isoproterenol or installation of a cardiac pacemaker should be considered .
Hypotension : If hypotension ( systolic blood pressure ≤ 90 mmHg ) occurs , metoprolol should be discontinued , and the hemodynamic status of the patient and the extent of myocardial damage carefully assessed .
Invasive monitoring of central venous , pulmonary capillary wedge , and arterial pressures may be required .
Appropriate therapy with fluids , positive inotropic agents , balloon counterpulsation , or other treatment modalities should be instituted .
If hypotension is associated with sinus bradycardia or AV block , treatment should be directed at reversing these ( see above ) .
Precautions General Start at a low dose and uptitrate slowly in patients with impaired hepatic function .
LABEL NDC : 51655 - 535 - 52 Mfg : 57664 - 166 - 58 Metoprolol Tartate 50 MG 30 Tablets Rx Only Lot # NW43360001 Exp Date : 1 / 2016 Each tablet contains Metoprolol Tartate , USP .... 50 MG Dosage : See package outsert for full prescribing information .
Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , Light - resistant container .
Protect from moisture .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Sun Pharma Laboratories Ltd .
Dadra 396 191 India Distributed by : Caraco Pharmaceuticals Laboratories , Ltd 1150 Elijah McCoy Drive , Detroit MI 48202 Lot # GKN0261 Exp 1 / 2016 Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 51655 - 535 - 25 Mfg : 57664 - 166 - 58 Metoprolol Tartate 50 MG 60 Tablets Rx Only Lot # Exp Date : Each tablet contains Metoprolol Tartate , USP .... 50 MG Dosage : See package outsert for full prescribing information .
Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , Light - resistant container .
Protect from moisture .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Mfg by : Sun Pharma Laboratories Ltd .
Dadra 396 191 India Distributed by : Caraco Pharmaceuticals Laboratories , Ltd 1150 Elijah McCoy Drive , Detroit MI 48202 Lot # Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC : 51655 - 535 - 26 Mfg : 57664 - 166 - 58 Metoprolol Tartate 50 MG 90 Tablets Rx Only Lot # Exp Date : Each tablet contains Metoprolol Tartate , USP .... 50 MG Dosage : See package outsert for full prescribing information .
Store at 68 to 77 degrees F . Store in a tight , Light - resistant container .
Protect from moisture .
Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
Medication guide is found at www . fda . gov / drugs / drugsafety / ucm085729 Mfg by : Sun Pharma Laboratories Ltd .
Dadra 396 191 India Distributed by : Caraco Pharmaceuticals Laboratories , Ltd 1150 Elijah McCoy Drive , Detroit MI 48202 Lot # Repackaged by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals , Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
