Rx only USE IN PREGNANCY When used in pregnancy , ACE inhibitors can cause injury and even death to the developing fetus .
When pregnancy is detected , perindopril erbumine tablets should be discontinued as soon as possible .
See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
DESCRIPTION Perindopril erbumine tablets are the tert - butylamine salt of perindopril , the ethyl ester of a non - sulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Perindopril erbumine is chemically described as ( 2 S , 3αS , 7αS ) - 1 - [ ( S ) - N - [ ( S ) - 1 - Carboxy - butyl ] alanyl ] hexahydro - 2 - indolinecarboxylic acid , 1 - ethyl ester , compound with tert - butylamine ( 1 : 1 ) .
Its molecular formula is C19H32N2O5C4H11N .
Its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Perindopril erbumine is a white , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 368 . 47 ( free acid ) or 441 . 61 ( salt form ) .
It is freely soluble in water ( 60 % w / w ) , alcohol and chloroform .
Perindopril is the free acid form of perindopril erbumine , is a pro - drug and metabolized in vivo by hydrolysis of the ester group to form perindoprilat , the biologically active metabolite .
Perindopril erbumine tablets are available in 2 mg , 4 mg and 8 mg strengths for oral administration .
In addition to perindopril erbumine , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : hydrophobic colloidal silica , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action : Perindopril erbumine tablets are a pro - drug for perindoprilat , which inhibits ACE in human subjects and animals .
The mechanism through which perindoprilat lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily inhibition of ACE activity .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes conversion of the inactive decapeptide , angiotensin I , to the vasoconstrictor , angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II is a potent peripheral vasoconstrictor , which stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex , and provides negative feedback on renin secretion .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , leading to decreased vasoconstriction , increased plasma renin activity and decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter results in diuresis and natriuresis and may be associated with a small increase of serum potassium .
ACE is identical to kininase II , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of perindopril erbumine tablets remains to be elucidated .
While the principal mechanism of perindopril in blood pressure reduction is believed to be through the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , ACE inhibitors have some effect even in apparent low - renin hypertension .
Perindopril has been studied in relatively few black patients , usually a low - renin population , and the average response of diastolic blood pressure to perindopril was about half the response seen in nonblacks , a finding consistent with previous experience of other ACE inhibitors .
After administration of perindopril , ACE is inhibited in a dose and blood concentration - related fashion , with the maximal inhibition of 80 to 90 % attained by 8 mg persisting for 10 to 12 hours .
Twenty - four hour ACE inhibition is about 60 % after these doses .
The degree of ACE inhibition achieved by a given dose appears to diminish over time ( the ID50 increases ) .
The pressor response to an angiotensin I infusion is reduced by perindopril , but this effect is not as persistent as the effect on ACE ; there is about 35 % inhibition at 24 hours after a 12 mg dose .
Pharmacokinetics : Oral administration of perindopril erbumine tablets results in its rapid absorption with peak plasma concentrations occurring at approximately 1 hour .
The absolute oral bioavailability of perindopril is about 75 % .
Following absorption , approximately 30 to 50 % of systemically available perindopril is hydrolyzed to its active metabolite , perindoprilat , which has a mean bioavailability of about 25 % .
Peak plasma concentrations of perindoprilat are attained 3 to 7 hours after perindopril administration .
The presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract does not affect the rate or extent of absorption of perindopril but reduces bioavailability of perindoprilat by about 35 % .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Food Interaction . )
With 4 , 8 and 16 mg doses of perindopril erbumine tablets , Cmax and AUC of perindopril and perindoprilat increase in a linear and dose - proportional manner following both single oral dosing and at steady state during a once - a - day multiple dosing regimen .
Perindopril exhibits multiexponential pharmacokinetics following oral administration .
The mean half - life of perindopril associated with most of its elimination is approximately 0 . 8 to 1 . 0 hours .
At very low plasma concentrations of perindopril ( < 3 ng / mL ) , there is a prolonged terminal elimination half - life , similar to that seen with other ACE inhibitors , that results from slow dissociation of perindopril from plasma / tissue ACE binding sites .
Perindopril does not accumulate with a once - a - day multiple dosing regimen .
Mean total body clearance of perindopril is 219 to 362 mL / min and its mean renal clearance is 23 . 3 to 28 . 6 mL / min .
Perindopril is extensively metabolized following oral administration , with only 4 to 12 % of the dose recovered unchanged in the urine .
Six metabolites resulting from hydrolysis , glucuronidation and cyclization via dehydration have been identified .
These include the active ACE inhibitor , perindoprilat ( hydrolyzed perindopril ) , perindopril and perindoprilat glucuronides , dehydrated perindopril and the diastereoisomers of dehydrated perindoprilat .
In humans , hepatic esterase appears to be responsible for the hydrolysis of perindopril .
The active metabolite , perindoprilat , also exhibits multiexponential pharmacokinetics following the oral administration of perindopril erbumine tablets .
Formation of perindoprilat is gradual with peak plasma concentrations occurring between 3 and 7 hours .
The subsequent decline in plasma concentration shows an apparent mean half - life of 3 to 10 hours for the majority of the elimination , with a prolonged terminal elimination half - life of 30 to 120 hours resulting from slow dissociation of perindoprilat from plasma / tissue ACE binding sites .
During repeated oral once - daily dosing with perindopril , perindoprilat accumulates about 1 . 5 to 2 . 0 fold and attains steady state plasma levels in 3 to 6 days .
The clearance of perindoprilat and its metabolites is almost exclusively renal .
Approximately 60 % of circulating perindopril is bound to plasma proteins , and only 10 to 20 % of perindoprilat is bound .
Therefore , drug interactions mediated through effects on protein binding are not anticipated .
At usual antihypertensive dosages , little radioactivity ( < 5 % of the dose ) was distributed to the brain after administration of 14 C - perindopril to rats .
Radioactivity was detectable in fetuses and in milk after administration of 14 C - perindopril to pregnant and lactating rats .
Elderly Patients : Plasma concentrations of both perindopril and perindoprilat in elderly patients ( > 70 yrs ) are approximately twice those observed in younger patients , reflecting both increased conversion of perindopril to perindoprilat and decreased renal excretion of perindoprilat .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use . )
Heart Failure Patients : Perindoprilat clearance is reduced in congestive heart failure patients , resulting in a 40 % higher dose interval AUC .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Patients with Renal Insufficiency : With perindopril erbumine doses of 2 to 4 mg , perindoprilat AUC increases with decreasing renal function .
At creatinine clearances of 30 to 80 mL / min , AUC is about double that of 100 mL / min .
When creatinine clearance drops below 30 mL / min , AUC increases more markedly .
In a limited number of patients studied , perindopril dialysis clearance ranged from 41 . 7 to 76 . 7 mL / min ( mean 52 . 0 mL / min ) .
Perindoprilat dialysis clearance ranged from 37 . 4 to 91 . 0 mL / min ( mean 67 . 2 mL / min ) .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Patients with Hepatic Insufficiency : The bioavailability of perindoprilat is increased in patients with impaired hepatic function .
Plasma concentrations of perindoprilat in patients with impaired liver function were about 50 % higher than those observed in healthy subjects or hypertensive patients with normal liver function .
Pharmacodynamics and Clinical Effects : Stable Coronary Artery Disease The EURopean trial On reduction of cardiac events with Perindopril in stable coronary Artery disease ( EUROPA ) was a multicenter , randomized , double - blind and placebo - controlled study conducted in 12 , 218 patients who had evidence of stable coronary artery disease without clinical heart failure .
Patients had evidence of coronary artery disease documented by previous myocardial infarction more than 3 months before screening , coronary revascularization more than 6 months before screening , angiographic evidence of stenosis ( at least 70 % narrowing of one or more major coronary arteries ) , or positive stress test in men with a history of chest pain .
After a run - in period of 4 weeks during which all patients received perindopril 2 mg to 8 mg , the patients were randomly assigned to perindopril 8 mg once daily ( n = 6 , 110 ) or matching placebo ( n = 6 , 108 ) .
The mean follow - up was 4 . 2 years .
The study examined the long - term effects of perindopril on time to first event of cardiovascular mortality , nonfatal myocardial infarction , or cardiac arrest in patients with stable coronary artery disease .
The mean age of patients was 60 years ; 85 % were male , 92 % were taking platelet inhibitors , 63 % were taking β blockers , and 56 % were taking lipid - lowering therapy .
The EUROPA study showed that perindopril significantly reduced the relative risk for the primary endpoint events ( Table 1 ) .
This beneficial effect is largely attributable to a reduction in the risk of non - fatal myocardial infarction .
This beneficial effect of perindopril on the primary outcome was evident after about one year of treatment ( Figure 1 ) .
Table 1 .
Primary Endpoint and Relative Risk ReductionRRR : relative risk reduction ; MI : myocardial infarction Perindopril ( N = 6 , 110 ) Placebo ( N = 6 , 108 ) RRR ( 95 % CI ) P Combined Endpoint Cardiovascular mortality , non - fatal MI or cardiac arrest 488 ( 8 . 0 % ) 603 ( 9 . 9 % ) 20 % ( 9 to 29 ) 0 . 0003 Component Endpoint Cardiovascular mortality Non - fatal MI Cardiac arrest 215 ( 3 . 5 % ) 295 ( 4 . 8 % ) 6 ( 0 . 1 % ) 249 ( 4 . 1 % ) 378 ( 6 . 2 % ) 11 ( 0 . 2 % ) 14 % ( - 3 to 28 ) 22 % ( 10 to 33 ) 46 % ( - 47 to 80 ) 0 . 107 0 . 001 0 . 22 The outcome was similar across all predefined subgroups by age , underlying disease or concomitant medication ( Figure 2 ) .
Figure 1 .
Time to First Occurrence of Primary Endpoint [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure 2 .
Beneficial Effect of Perindopril Treatment on Primary Endpoint in Predefined Subgroups [ MULTIMEDIA ] Hypertension In placebo - controlled studies of perindopril monotherapy ( 2 to 16 mg q . d . ) in patients with a mean blood pressure of about 150 / 100 mm Hg , 2 mg had little effect , but doses of 4 to 16 mg lowered blood pressure .
The 8 and 16 mg doses were indistinguishable , and both had a greater effect than the 4 mg dose .
The magnitude of the blood pressure effect was similar in the standing and supine positions , generally about 1 mm Hg greater on standing .
In these studies , doses of 8 and 16 mg per day gave supine , trough blood pressure reductions of 9 to 15 / 5 to 6 mm Hg .
When once - daily and twice - daily dosing were compared , the B . I . D . regimen was generally slightly superior , but by not more than about 0 . 5 to 1 mm Hg .
After 2 to 16 mg doses of perindopril , the trough mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure effects were approximately equal to the peak effects ( measured 3 to 7 hours after dosing . )
.
Trough effects were about 75 to 100 % of peak effects .
When perindopril was given to patients receiving 25 mg HCTZ , it had an added effect similar in magnitude to its effect as monotherapy , but 2 to 8 mg doses were approximately equal in effectiveness .
In general , the effect of perindopril occurred promptly , with effects increasing slightly over several weeks .
In hemodynamic studies carried out in animal models of hypertension , blood pressure reduction after perindopril administration was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral arterial resistance and improved arterial wall compliance .
In studies carried out in patients with essential hypertension , the reduction in blood pressure was accompanied by a reduction in peripheral resistance with no significant changes in heart rate or glomerular filtration rate .
An increase in the compliance of large arteries was also observed , suggesting a direct effect on arterial smooth muscle , consistent with the results of animal studies .
Formal interaction studies of perindopril erbumine tablets have not been carried out with antihypertensive agents other than thiazides .
Limited experience in controlled and uncontrolled trials coadministering perindopril erbumine tablets with a calcium channel blocker , a loop diuretic or triple therapy ( beta - blocker , vasodilator and a diuretic ) , does not suggest any unexpected interactions .
In general , ACE inhibitors have less than additive effects when given with beta - adrenergic blockers , presumably because both work in part through the renin angiotensin system .
A controlled pharmacokinetic study has shown no effect on plasma digoxin concentrations when coadministered with perindopril erbumine tablets .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
In uncontrolled studies in patients with insulin - dependent diabetes , perindopril did not appear to affect glycemic control .
In long - term use , no effect on urinary protein excretion was seen in these patients .
The effectiveness of perindopril erbumine tablets was not influenced by sex and it was less effective in blacks than in nonblacks .
In elderly patients ( ≥ 60 years ) , the mean blood pressure effect was somewhat smaller than in younger patients , although the difference was not significant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] INDICATIONS AND USAGE Stable Coronary Artery Disease Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated in patients with stable coronary artery disease to reduce the risk of cardiovascular mortality or non - fatal myocardial infarction .
Perindopril erbumine tablets can be used with conventional treatment for management of coronary artery disease , such as antiplatelet , antihypertensive or lipid - lowering therapy .
Hypertension Perindopril erbumine tablets are indicated for the treatment of patients with essential hypertension .
Perindopril erbumine tablets may be used alone or given with other classes of antihypertensives , especially thiazide diuretics .
When using perindopril erbumine tablets , consideration should be given to the fact that another angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ( captopril ) has caused agranulocytosis , particularly in patients with renal impairment or collagen vascular disease .
Available data are insufficient to determine whether perindopril erbumine tablets has a similar potential .
( See WARNINGS . )
In considering use of perindopril erbumine tablets , it should be noted that in controlled trials ACE inhibitors have an effect on blood pressure that is less in black patients than in nonblacks .
In addition , it should be noted that black patients receiving ACE inhibitor monotherapy have been reported to have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to nonblacks .
( See WARNINGS : Head and Neck Angioedema . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS Perindopril erbumine tablets are contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to this product or to any other ACE inhibitor .
Perindopril erbumine tablets are also contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema related to previous treatment with an ACE inhibitor .
WARNINGS Anaphylactoid and Possibly Related Reactions : Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including perindopril erbumine tablets ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
Head and Neck Angioedema : Angioedema involving the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis and / or larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors , including perindopril erbumine tablets ( 0 . 1 % of patients treated with perindopril erbumine tablets in U . S . clinical trials ) .
In such cases , perindopril erbumine tablets should be promptly discontinued and the patient carefully observed until the swelling disappears .
In instances where swelling has been confined to the face and lips , the condition has generally resolved without treatment , although antihistamines have been useful in relieving symptoms .
Angioedema associated with involvement of the tongue , glottis or larynx may be fatal due to airway obstruction .
Appropriate therapy , such as subcutaneous epinephrine solution 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 to 0 . 5 mL ) , should be promptly administered .
Patients with a history of angioedema unrelated to ACE inhibitor therapy may be at increased risk of angioedema while receiving an ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal Angioedema : Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Desensitization : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
Anaphylactoid Reactions During Membrane Exposure : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
Hypotension : Like other ACE inhibitors , perindopril erbumine tablets can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Perindopril erbumine tablets have been associated with hypotension in 0 . 3 % of uncomplicated hypertensive patients in U . S . placebo - controlled trials .
Symptoms related to orthostatic hypotension were reported in another 0 . 8 % of patients .
Symptomatic hypotension associated with the use of ACE inhibitors is more likely to occur in patients who have been volume and / or salt - depleted , as a result of prolonged diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before initiating therapy with perindopril erbumine tablets .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitors may cause excessive hypotension , and may be associated with oliguria or azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and death .
In patients with ischemic heart disease or cerebrovascular disease such an excessive fall in blood pressure could result in a myocardial infarction or a cerebrovascular accident .
In patients at risk of excessive hypotension , perindopril erbumine tablets therapy should be started under very close medical supervision .
Patients should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of perindopril erbumine tablets and / or diuretic is increased .
If excessive hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed immediately in a supine position and , if necessary , treated with an intravenous infusion of physiological saline .
Perindopril erbumine tablets treatment can usually be continued following restoration of volume and blood pressure .
Neutropenia / Agranulocytosis : Another ACE inhibitor , captopril , has been shown to cause agranulocytosis and bone marrow depression , rarely in uncomplicated patients but more frequently in patients with renal impairment , especially patients with a collagen vascular disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus or scleroderma .
Available data from clinical trials of perindopril erbumine tablets are insufficient to show whether perindopril erbumine tablets causes agranulocytosis at similar rates .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality : ACE inhibitors can cause fetal and neonatal morbidity and death when administered to pregnant women .
Several dozen cases have been reported in the world literature .
When pregnancy is detected , ACE inhibitors should be discontinued as soon as possible .
The use of ACE inhibitors during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with fetal and neonatal injury , including hypotension , neonatal skull hypoplasia , anuria , reversible or irreversible renal failure and death .
Oligohydramnios has also been reported , presumably resulting from decreased fetal renal function ; oligohydramnios in this setting has been associated with fetal limb contractures , craniofacial deformation and hypoplastic lung development .
Prematurity , intrauterine growth retardation , patent ductus arteriosus , and other structural cardiac malformations , as well as neurological malformations , have been reported following exposure to ACE inhibitors during the first trimester of pregnancy .
When patients become pregnant , physicians should make every effort to discontinue the use of perindopril erbumine tablets as soon as possible .
Rarely ( probably less often than once in every thousand pregnancies ) , no alternative to ACE inhibitors will be found .
In these rare cases , the mothers should be apprised of the potential hazards to their fetuses , and serial ultrasound examinations should be performed to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , perindopril erbumine tablets should be discontinued unless it is considered life - saving for the mother .
Contraction stress testing ( CST ) , a non - stress test ( NST ) or biophysical profiling ( BPP ) may be appropriate , depending upon the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Infants with histories of in utero exposure to ACE inhibitors should be closely observed for hypotension , oliguria and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria occurs , attention should be directed toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusion or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Perindopril , which crosses the placenta , can theoretically be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means , but limited experience has not shown that such removal is central to the treatment of these infants .
No teratogenic effects of perindopril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , rabbits and cynomolgus monkeys .
On a mg / m2 basis , the doses used in these studies were 6 times ( in mice ) , 670 times ( in rats ) , 50 times ( in rabbits ) and 17 times ( in monkeys ) the maximum recommended human dose ( assuming a 50 kg adult ) .
On a mg / kg basis , these multiples are 60 times ( in mice ) , 3 , 750 times ( in rats ) , 150 times ( in rabbits ) and 50 times ( in monkeys ) the maximum recommended human dose .
Hepatic Failure : Rarely , ACE inhibitors have been associated with a syndrome that starts with cholestatic jaundice and progresses to fulminant hepatic necrosis and ( sometimes ) death .
The mechanism of this syndrome is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevations of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and receive appropriate medical follow - up .
PRECAUTIONS General : Impaired Renal Function : As a consequence of inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , changes in renal function may be anticipated in susceptible individuals .
Hypertensive Patients with Congestive Heart Failure : In patients with severe congestive heart failure , where renal function may depend on the activity of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system , treatment with ACE inhibitors , including perindopril erbumine tablets , may be associated with oliguria and / or progressive azotemia , and rarely with acute renal failure and / or death .
Hypertensive Patients with Renal Artery Stenosis : In hypertensive patients with unilateral or bilateral renal artery stenosis , increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine may occur .
Experience with ACE inhibitors suggests that these increases are usually reversible upon discontinuation of the drug .
In such patients , renal function should be monitored during the first few weeks of therapy .
Some hypertensive patients without apparent pre - existing renal vascular disease have developed increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine , usually minor and transient .
These increases are more likely to occur in patients treated concomitantly with a diuretic and in patients with pre - existing renal impairment .
Reduction of dosages of perindopril erbumine tablets , the diuretic or both may be required .
In some cases , discontinuation of either or both drugs may be necessary .
Evaluation of hypertensive patients should always include an assessment of renal function .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
Hyperkalemia : Elevations of serum potassium have been observed in some patients treated with ACE inhibitors , including perindopril erbumine tablets .
In U . S . controlled clinical trials , 1 . 4 % of the patients receiving perindopril erbumine tablets and 2 . 3 % of patients receiving placebo showed increased serum potassium levels to greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L .
Most cases were isolated single values that did not appear clinically relevant and were rarely a cause for withdrawal .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus and the concomitant use of agents such as potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
Drugs associated with increases in serum potassium should be used cautiously , if at all , with perindopril erbumine tablets .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
Cough : Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , always resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
ACE inhibitor - induced cough should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cough .
In controlled trials with perindopril , cough was present in 12 % of perindopril patients and 4 . 5 % of patients given placebo .
Surgery / Anesthesia : In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , perindopril erbumine tablets may block angiotensin II formation that would otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension attributable to this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
Information for Patients : Angioedema : Angioedema , including laryngeal edema , can occur with ACE inhibitor therapy , especially following the first dose .
Patients should be told to report immediately signs or symptoms suggesting angioedema ( swelling of face , extremities , eyes , lips , tongue , hoarseness or difficulty in swallowing or breathing ) and to take no more drug before consulting a physician .
Symptomatic Hypotension : As with any antihypertensive therapy , patients should be cautioned that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first few days of therapy and that it should be reported promptly .
Patients should be told that if fainting occurs , perindopril erbumine tablets should be discontinued and a physician consulted .
All patients should be cautioned that inadequate fluid intake or excessive perspiration , diarrhea or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure in association with ACE inhibitor therapy .
Hyperkalemia : Patients should be advised not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium without a physician ’ s advice .
Neutropenia : Patients should be told to report promptly any indication of infection ( e . g . , sore throat , fever ) , which could be a sign of neutropenia .
Pregnancy : Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to ACE inhibitors during pregnancy .
Discuss other treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Women who do become pregnant while on an ACE inhibitor ( including perindopril erbumine ) should be asked to stop the medication and contact their physician as soon as possible .
Drug Interactions : Diuretics : Patients on diuretics , and especially those started recently , may occasionally experience an excessive reduction of blood pressure after initiation of perindopril erbumine tablets therapy .
The possibility of hypotensive effects can be minimized by either discontinuing the diuretic or increasing the salt intake prior to initiation of treatment with perindopril .
If diuretics cannot be interrupted , close medical supervision should be provided with the first dose of perindopril erbumine tablets , for at least two hours and until blood pressure has stabilized for another hour .
( See WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
The rate and extent of perindopril absorption and elimination are not affected by concomitant diuretics .
The bioavailability of perindoprilat was reduced by diuretics , however , and this was associated with a decrease in plasma ACE inhibition .
Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics : Perindopril erbumine tablets may increase serum potassium because of its potential to decrease aldosterone production .
Use of potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene and others ) , potassium supplements or other drugs capable of increasing serum potassium ( indomethacin , heparin , cyclosporine and others ) can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
Therefore , if concomitant use of such agents is indicated , they should be given with caution and the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
Lithium : Increased serum lithium and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving concomitant lithium and ACE inhibitor therapy .
These drugs should be coadministered with caution and frequent monitoring of serum lithium concentration is recommended .
Use of a diuretic may further increase the risk of lithium toxicity .
Gold : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE Inhibitor therapy including perindropil erbumine tablets .
Digoxin : A controlled pharmacokinetic study has shown no effect on plasma digoxin concentrations when co - administered with perindopril erbumine tablets , but an effect of digoxin on the plasma concentration of perindopril / perindoprilat has not been excluded .
Gentamicin : Animal data have suggested the possibility of interaction between perindopril and gentamicin .
However , this has not been investigated in human studies .
Co - administration of both drugs should proceed with caution .
Food Interaction : Oral administration of perindopril erbumine tablets with food does not significantly lower the rate or extent of perindopril absorption relative to the fasted state .
However , the extent of biotransformation of perindopril to the active metabolite , perindoprilat , is reduced approximately 43 % , resulting in a reduction in the plasma ACE inhibition curve of approximately 20 % , probably clinically insignificant .
In clinical trials , perindopril was generally administered in a non - fasting state .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenesis : No evidence of carcinogenic effect was observed in studies in rats and mice when perindopril was administered at dosages up to 20 times ( mg / kg ) or 2 to 4 times ( mg / m2 ) the maximum proposed clinical doses ( 16 mg / day ) for 104 weeks .
Mutagenesis : No genotoxic potential was detected for perindopril erbumine tablets , perindoprilat and other metabolites in various in vitro and in vivo investigations , including the Ames test , the Saccharomyces cerevisiae D4 test , cultured human lymphocytes , TK ± mouse lymphoma assay , mouse and rat micronucleus tests and Chinese hamster bone marrow assay .
Impairment of Fertility : There was no meaningful effect on reproductive performance or fertility in the rat given up to 30 times ( mg / kg ) or 6 times ( mg / m2 ) the proposed maximum clinical dosage of perindopril erbumine tablets during the period of spermatogenesis in males or oogenesis and gestation in females .
Pregnancy : Pregnancy Categories D . ( See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality . )
Nursing Mothers : Milk of lactating rats contained radioactivity following administration 14 C - perindopril .
It is not known whether perindopril is secreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are secreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when perindopril erbumine tablets are given to nursing mothers .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of perindopril erbumine tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : The mean blood pressure effect of perindopril was somewhat smaller in patients over 60 than in younger patients , although the difference was not significant .
Plasma concentrations of both perindopril and perindoprilat were increased in elderly patients compared to concentrations in younger patients .
No adverse effects were clearly increased in older patients with the exception of dizziness and possibly rash .
Perindopril should be used with caution when administered to elderly patients who are at an increased risk for falls due to age , their underlying disease and / or their concurrent use of medications ( s ) associated with falls .
Falls and fall - related events may be exacerbated by the central nervous system effects of dizziness and syncope as well as the symptomatic hypotension , including orthostatic , associated with perindopril .
Experience with perindopril erbumine tablets in elderly patients at daily doses exceeding 8 mg is limited .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Hypertension Perindopril erbumine tablets have been evaluated for safety in approximately 3 , 400 patients with hypertension in U . S . and foreign clinical trials .
Perindopril erbumine tablets were in general well tolerated in the patient populations studied , the side effects were usually mild and transient .
Although dizziness was reported more frequently in placebo patients ( 8 . 5 % ) than in perindopril patients ( 8 . 2 % ) , the incidence appeared to increase with an increase in perindopril dose .
The data presented here are based on results from the 1 , 417 perindopril erbumine tablets - treated patients who participated in the U . S . clinical trials .
Over 220 of these patients were treated with perindopril erbumine tablets for at least one year .
In placebo - controlled U . S . clinical trials , the incidence of premature discontinuation of therapy due to adverse events was 6 . 5 % in patients treated with perindopril erbumine tablets and 6 . 7 % in patients treated with placebo .
The most common causes were cough , headache , asthenia and dizziness .
Among 1 , 012 patients in placebo - controlled U . S . trials , the overall frequency of reported adverse events was similar in patients treated with perindopril erbumine tablets and in those treated with placebo ( approximately 75 % in each group ) .
Adverse events that occurred in 1 % or greater of the patients and that were more common for perindopril than placebo by at least 1 % ( regardless of whether they were felt to be related to study drug ) are shown in the first two columns below .
Of these adverse events , those considered possibly or probably related to study drug are shown in the last two columns .
Table 2 .
Frequency of Adverse Events ( % ) All Adverse Events Possibly – or Probably – Related Adverse Events Perindopril n = 789 Placebo n = 223 Perindopril n = 789 Placebo n = 223 Cough 12 . 0 4 . 5 6 . 0 1 . 8 Back Pain 5 . 8 3 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 Sinusitis 5 . 2 3 . 6 0 . 6 0 . 0 Viral Infection 3 . 4 1 . 6 0 . 3 0 . 0 Upper Extremity Pain 2 . 8 1 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 0 Hypertonia 2 . 7 1 . 4 0 . 2 0 . 0 Dyspepsia 1 . 9 0 . 9 0 . 3 0 . 0 Fever 1 . 5 0 . 5 0 . 3 0 . 0 Proteinuria 1 . 5 0 . 5 1 . 0 0 . 5 Ear Infection 1 . 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 Palpitation 1 . 1 0 . 0 0 . 9 0 . 0 Of these , cough was the reason for withdrawal in 1 . 3 % of perindopril and 0 . 4 % of placebo patients .
While dizziness was not reported more frequently in the perindopril group ( 8 . 2 % ) than in the placebo group ( 8 . 5 % ) , it was clearly increased with dose , suggesting a causal relationship with perindopril .
Other commonly reported complaints ( 1 % or greater ) , regardless of causality , include : headache ( 23 . 8 % ) , upper respiratory infection ( 8 . 6 % ) , asthenia ( 7 . 9 % ) , rhinitis ( 4 . 8 % ) , low extremity pain ( 4 . 7 % ) , diarrhea ( 4 . 3 % ) , edema ( 3 . 9 % ) , pharyngitis ( 3 . 3 % ) , urinary tract infection ( 2 . 8 % ) , abdominal pain ( 2 . 7 % ) , sleep disorder ( 2 . 5 % ) , chest pain ( 2 . 4 % ) , injury , paresthesia , nausea , rash ( each 2 . 3 % ) , seasonal allergy , depression ( each 2 . 0 % ) , abnormal ECG ( 1 . 8 % ) , ALT increase ( 1 . 7 % ) , tinnitus , vomiting ( each 1 . 5 % ) , neck pain , male sexual dysfunction ( each 1 . 4 % ) , triglyceride increase , somnolence ( each 1 . 3 % ) , joint pain , nervousness , myalgia , menstrual disorder ( each 1 . 1 % ) , flatulence and arthritis ( each 1 . 0 % ) , but none of those was more frequent by at least 1 % on perindopril than on placebo .
Depending on the specific adverse event , approximately 30 to 70 % of the common complaints were considered possibly or probably related to treatment .
Stable Coronary Artery Disease Perindopril has been evaluated for safety in EUROPA , a double - blind , placebo - controlled study in 12 , 218 patients with stable coronary artery disease .
The overall rate of discontinuation was about 22 % on drug and placebo .
The most common medical reasons for discontinuation that were more frequent on perindopril than placebo were cough , drug intolerance and hypotension .
Below is a list ( by body system ) of adverse experiences reported in 0 . 3 to 1 % of patients in U . S . placebo - controlled studies in hypertensive patients without regard to attribution to therapy .
Less frequent but medically important adverse events are also included ; the incidence of these events is given in parentheses .
Body as a Whole : malaise , pain , cold / hot sensation , chills , fluid retention , orthostatic symptoms , anaphylactic reaction , facial edema , angioedema ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Gastrointestinal : constipation , dry mouth , dry mucous membrane , appetite increased , gastroenteritis .
Respiratory : posterior nasal drip , bronchitis , rhinorrhea , throat disorder , dyspnea , sneezing , epistaxis , hoarseness , pulmonary fibrosis ( < 0 . 1 % ) .
Urogenital : vaginitis , kidney stone , flank pain , urinary frequency , urinary retention .
Cardiovascular : hypotension , ventricular extrasystole , myocardial infarction , vasodilation , syncope , abnormal conduction , heart murmur , orthostatic hypotension .
Endocrine : gout .
Hematology : hematoma , ecchymosis .
Musculoskeletal : arthralgia , myalgia .
CNS : migraine , amnesia , vertigo , cerebral vascular accident ( 0 . 2 % ) .
Psychiatric : anxiety , psychosexual disorder .
Dermatology : sweating , skin infection , tinea , pruritus , dry skin , erythema , fever blisters , purpura ( 0 . 1 % ) .
Special Senses : conjunctivitis , earache .
Laboratory : potassium decrease , uric acid increase , alkaline phosphatase increase , cholesterol increase , AST increase , creatinine increase , hematuria , glucose increase .
When perindopril erbumine tablets was given concomitantly with thiazide diuretics , adverse events were generally reported at the same rate as those for perindopril erbumine tablets alone , except for a higher incidence of abnormal laboratory findings known to be related to treatment with thiazide diuretics alone ( e . g . , increases in serum uric acid , triglycerides and cholesterol and decreases in serum potassium ) .
Potential Adverse Effects Reported with ACE Inhibitors : Other medically important adverse effects reported with other available ACE inhibitors include : cardiac arrest , eosinophilic pneumonitis , neutropenia / agranulocytosis , pancytopenia , anemia ( including hemolytic and aplastic ) , thrombocytopenia , acute renal failure , nephritis , hepatic failure , jaundice ( hepatocellular or cholestatic ) , symptomatic hyponatremia , bullous pemphigoid , pemphigus , acute pancreatitis , falls , psoriasis , exfoliative dermatitis and a syndrome which may include : arthralgia / arthritis , vasculitis , serositis , myalgia , fever , rash or other dermatologic manifestations , a positive ANA , leukocytosis , eosinophilia or an elevated ESR .
Many of these adverse effects have also been reported for perindopril .
Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality : See WARNINGS : Fetal / Neonatal Morbidity and Mortality .
Clinical Laboratory Test Findings Hypertension Hematology , clinical chemistry and urinalysis parameters have been evaluated in U . S . placebo - controlled trials .
In general , there were no clinically significant trends in laboratory test findings .
Hyperkalemia : In clinical trials , 1 . 4 % of the patients receiving perindopril erbumine tablets and 2 . 3 % of the patients receiving placebo showed serum potassium levels greater than 5 . 7 mEq / L .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
BUN / Serum Creatinine Elevations : Elevations , usually transient and minor , of BUN and serum creatinine have been observed .
In placebo - controlled clinical trials , the proportion of patients experiencing increases in serum creatinine were similar in the perindopril erbumine tablets and placebo treatment groups .
Rapid reduction of long - standing or markedly elevated blood pressure by any anti - hypertensive therapy can result in decreases in the glomerular filtration rate and , in turn , lead to increases in BUN or serum creatinine .
( See PRECAUTIONS . )
Hematology : Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit occur frequently in hypertensive patients treated with perindopril erbumine tablets , but are rarely of clinical importance .
In controlled clinical trials , no patient was discontinued from therapy due to the development of anemia .
Leukopenia ( including neutropenia ) was observed in 0 . 1 % of patients in U . S . clinical trials ( See WARNINGS . )
Liver Function Tests : Elevations in ALT ( 1 . 6 % perindopril erbumine tablets vs 0 . 9 % placebo ) and AST ( 0 . 5 % perindopril erbumine tablets vs 0 . 4 % placebo ) have been observed in U . S placebo - controlled clinical trials .
The elevations were generally mild and transient and resolved after discontinuation of therapy .
OVERDOSAGE In animals , doses of perindopril up to 2 , 500 mg / kg in mice , 3 , 000 mg / kg in rats and 1 , 600 mg / kg in dogs were non - lethal .
Past experiences were scant but suggested that overdosage with other ACE inhibitors was also fairly well tolerated by humans .
The most likely manifestation is hypotension , and treatment should be symptomatic and supportive .
Therapy with the ACE inhibitor should be discontinued , and the patient should be observed .
Dehydration , electrolyte imbalance and hypotension should be treated by established procedures .
However , of the reported cases of perindopril overdosage , one ( dosage unknown ) required assisted ventilation and the other developed hypothermia , circulatory arrest and died following ingestion of up to 180 mg of perindopril .
The intervention for perindopril overdose may require vigorous support ( see below ) .
Laboratory determinations of serum levels of perindopril and its metabolites are not widely available , and such determinations have , in any event , no established role in the management of perindopril overdose .
No data are available to suggest physiological maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of perindopril and its metabolites .
Perindopril can be removed by hemodialysis , with clearance of 52 mL / min for perindopril and 67 mL / min for perindoprilat .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote in the settling of perindopril overdose , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research facilities .
Because the hypotensive effect of perindopril is achieved through vasodilation and effective hypovolemia , it is reasonable to treat perindopril overdose by infusion of normal saline solution .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Stable Coronary Artery Disease In patients with stable coronary artery disease , perindopril erbumine tablets should be given at an initial dose of 4 mg once daily for 2 weeks , and then increased as tolerated , to a maintenance dose of 8 mg once daily .
In elderly patients ( > 70 yrs ) , perindopril erbumine tablets should be given as a 2 mg dose once daily in the first week , followed by 4 mg once daily in the second week and 8 mg once daily for maintenance dose if tolerated .
Hypertension Use in Uncomplicated Hypertensive Patients : In patients with essential hypertension , the recommended initial dose is 4 mg once a day .
The dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure , when measured just before the next dose , is controlled or to a maximum of 16 mg per day .
The usual maintenance dose range is 4 to 8 mg administered as a single daily dose .
perindopril erbumine tablets may also be administered in two divided doses .
When once - daily dosing was compared to twice - daily dosing in clinical studies , the B . I . D . regimen was generally slightly superior , but not by more than about 0 . 5 to 1 . 0 mm Hg .
Use in the Elderly Patients : As in younger patients , the recommended initial daily dosage of perindopril erbumine tablets for the elderly ( > 65 years ) is 4 mg daily , given in one or two divided doses .
The daily dosage may be titrated upward until blood pressure , when measured just before the next dose , is controlled , but experience with perindopril erbumine tablets is limited in the elderly at doses exceeding 8 mg .
Dosages above 8 mg should be administered with caution and under close medical supervision .
( See PRECAUTIONS : Geriatric Use . )
Use in Concomitant Diuretics : If blood pressure is not adequately controlled with perindopril alone , a diuretic may be added .
In patients currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of perindopril .
To reduce likelihood of such reaction , the diuretic should , if possible , be discontinued 2 to 3 days prior to the beginning of perindopril erbumine tablets therapy .
( See WARNINGS . )
Then , if blood pressure is not controlled with perindopril erbumine tablets alone , the diuretic should be resumed .
If the diuretic cannot be discontinued , an initial dose of 2 to 4 mg daily in one or in two divided doses should be used with careful medical supervision for several hours and until blood pressure has stabilized .
The dosage should then be titrated as described above .
( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions . )
After the first dose of perindopril erbumine tablets , the patient should be followed closely for the first two weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of perindopril erbumine tablets and / or diuretics is increased ( See WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions . )
In patients who are currently being treated with a diuretic , symptomatic hypotension occasionally can occur following the initial dose of perindopril erbumine tablets .
To reduce the likelihood of hypotension , the dose of diuretic , if possible , can be adjusted which may diminish the likelihood of hypotension .
The appearance of hypotension after the initial dose of perindopril erbumine tablets does not preclude subsequent careful dose titration with the drug , following effective management of the hypotension .
Dose Adjustment in Renal Impairment Kinetic data indicate that perindoprilat elimination is decreased in renally impaired patients , with a marked increase in accumulation when creatinine clearance drops below 30 mL / min .
In such patients ( creatinine clearance < 30 mL / min ) , safety and efficacy of perindopril erbumine tablets have not been established .
For patients with lesser degrees of impairment ( creatinine clearance above 30 mL / min ) , the initial dosage should be 2 mg / day and dosage should not exceed 8 mg / day due to limited clinical experience .
During dialysis , perindopril is removed with the same clearance as in patients with normal renal function .
HOW SUPPLIED Perindopril Erbumine Tablets are supplied as below : 2 mg : White to off - white , round , biconvex tablets , debossed with ‘ L ’ and ‘ U ’ on either side of the breakline on one side and ‘ C11 ’ on the other side .
Bottles of 100 NDC 68180 - 235 - 01 4 mg : White to off - white , capsule - shaped , biconvex tablets , debossed with ‘ L ’ and ‘ U ’ on either side of the breakline on one side and ‘ C12 ’ on the other side .
Bottles of 100 NDC 68180 - 236 - 01 8 mg : White to off - white , round , biconvex tablets , debossed with ‘ L ’ and ‘ U ’ on either side of the breakline on one side and ‘ C13 ’ on the other side .
Bottles of 100 NDC 68180 - 237 - 01 Storage Conditions : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Manufactured for : Lupin Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Baltimore , Maryland 21202 United States Manufactured by : Lupin Limited Goa - 403 722 INDIA Revision Date : January 2010 Item Code : 21207 PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68180 - 235 - 01 Perindopril Erbumine Tablets 2 mg Each tablet contains perindopril erbumine 2 mg .
Rx only 100 Tablets Dosage and Administration : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68180 - 236 - 01 Perindopril Erbumine Tablets 4 mg Each tablet contains perindopril erbumine 4 mg .
Rx only 100 Tablets Dosage and Administration : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 68180 - 237 - 01 Perindopril Erbumine Tablets 8 mg Each tablet contains perindopril erbumine 8 mg .
Rx only 100 Tablets Dosage and Administration : See accompanying prescribing information .
Keep out of the reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ]
