DESCRIPTION Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are a combination of pentazocine hydrochloride USP , equivalent to 25 mg base and acetaminophen USP , 650 mg .
Pentazocine is a member of the benzazocine series ( also known as the benzomorphan series ) .
Chemically , pentazocine hydrochloride is ( 2 R * , 6 R * , 11 R * ) - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexahydro - 6 , 11 - dimethyl - 3 - ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenyl ) - 2 , 6 - methano - 3 - benzazocin - 8 - ol hydrochloride , a white , crystalline substance soluble in acidic aqueous solutions .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemically , acetaminophen is 4 ’ - hydroxyacetanilide - .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Pentazocine is an analgesic and acetaminophen is an analgesic and antipyretic .
Each tablet for oral administration contains 25 mg of pentazocine as the hydrochloride and 650 mg of acetaminophen .
In addition , each tablet contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , D & C Yellow No . 10 Aluminum Lake , FD & C Blue No . 1 Aluminum Lake , microcrystalline cellulose , povidone , pregelatinized starch , sodium starch glycolate , and stearic acid .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are an analgesic possessing antipyretic actions .
Pentazocine is an analgesic with agonist / antagonist action which when administered orally is approximately equivalent on a mg for mg basis in analgesic effect to codeine .
Acetaminophen is an analgesic and antipyretic .
Onset of significant analgesia with pentazocine usually occurs between 15 and 30 minutes after oral administration , and duration of action is usually three hours or longer .
Onset and duration of action and the degree of pain relief are related both to dose and the severity of pretreatment pain .
Pentazocine weakly antagonizes the analgesic effects of morphine , meperidine , and phenazocine ; in addition , it produces incomplete reversal of cardiovascular , respiratory , and behavioral depression induced by morphine and meperidine .
Pentazocine has about 1 / 50 the antagonistic activity of nalorphine .
It also has a sedative activity .
Pentazocine is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
Plasma levels closely correspond to the onset , duration , and intensity of analgesia .
The time to mean peak concentration in 24 normal volunteers was 1 . 7 hours ( range 0 . 5 to 4 hours ) after oral administration and the mean plasma elimination half - life was 3 . 6 hours ( range 1 . 5 to 10 hours ) .
The action of pentazocine is terminated for the most part by biotransformation in the liver with some free pentazocine excreted in the urine .
The products of the oxidation of the terminal methyl groups and glucuronide conjugates are excreted by the kidney .
Elimination of approximately 60 % of the total dose occurs within 24 hours .
Pentazocine passes the placental barrier .
Onset of significant analgesic and antipyretic activity of acetaminophen when administered orally occurs within 30 minutes and is maximal at approximately 21 / 2 hours .
The pharmacological mode of action of acetaminophen is unknown at this time .
Acetaminophen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract .
In 24 normal volunteers the mean time to peak plasma concentration was 1 hour ( range 0 . 25 to 3 hours ) after oral administration and the mean plasma elimination half - life was 2 . 8 hours ( range 2 to 4 hours ) .
The effect of pentazocine on acetaminophen plasma protein binding or vice versa has not been established .
For acetaminophen there is little or no plasma protein binding at normal therapeutic doses .
When toxic doses of acetaminophen are ingested and drug plasma levels exceed 90 mcg / mL , plasma binding may vary from 8 % to 43 % .
Acetaminophen is conjugated in the liver with glucuronic acid and to a lesser extent with sulfuric acid .
Approximately 80 % of acetaminophen is excreted in the urine after conjugation and about 3 % is excreted unchanged .
The drug is also conjugated to a lesser extent with cysteine and additionally metabolized by hydroxylation .
If pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are taken every 4 hours over an extended period of time , accumulation of pentazocine and to a lesser extent , acetaminophen , may occur .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are indicated for the relief of mild to moderate pain .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should not be administered to patients who are hypersensitive to either pentazocine or acetaminophen .
WARNINGS Head Injury and Increased Intracranial Pressure .
As in the case of other potent analgesics , the potential of pentazocine for elevating cerebrospinal fluid pressure may be attributed to CO2 retention due to the respiratory depressant effects of the drug .
These effects may be markedly exaggerated in the presence of head injury , other intracranial lesions , or a pre - existing increase in intracranial pressure .
Furthermore , pentazocine can produce effects which may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injuries .
In such patients , pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets must be used with extreme caution and only if its use is deemed essential .
Acute CNS Manifestations .
Patients receiving therapeutic doses of pentazocine have experienced hallucinations ( usually visual ) , disorientation , and confusion which have cleared spontaneously within a period of hours .
The mechanism of this reaction is not known .
Such patients should be closely observed and vital signs checked .
If the drug is reinstituted , it should be done with caution since these acute CNS manifestations may recur .
There have been instances of psychological and physical dependence on parenteral pentazocine in patients with a history of drug abuse , and rarely , in patients without such a history .
( SeeDRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE . )
Due to the potential for increased CNS depressant effects , alcohol should be used with caution in patients who are currently receiving pentazocine .
Pentazocine may precipitate opioid abstinence symptoms in patients receiving courses of opiates for pain relief .
PRECAUTIONS In prescribing pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets for chronic use , the physician should take precautions to avoid increases in dose by the patient .
Myocardial Infarction As with all drugs , pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should be used with caution in patients with myocardial infarction who have nausea or vomiting .
Certain Respiratory Conditions Although respiratory depression has rarely been reported after oral administration of pentazocine , the drug should be administered with caution to patients with respiratory depression from any cause , severely limited respiratory reserve , severe bronchial asthma and other obstructive respiratory conditions , or cyanosis .
Impaired Renal or Hepatic Function Decreased metabolism of the drug by the liver in extensive liver disease may predispose to accentuation of side effects .
Although laboratory tests have not indicated that pentazocine causes or increases renal or hepatic impairment , the drug should be administered with caution to patients with such impairment .
Since acetaminophen is metabolized by the liver , the question of the safety of its use in the presence of liver disease should be considered .
Biliary Surgery Narcotic drug products are generally considered to elevate biliary tract pressure for varying periods following their administration .
Some evidence suggests that pentazocine may differ from other marketed narcotics in this respect ( i . e . , it causes little or no elevation in biliary tract pressures ) .
The clinical significance of these findings , however , is not yet known .
CNS Effect Caution should be used when pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are administered to patients prone to seizures ; seizures have occurred in a few such patients in association with the use of pentazocine although no cause and effect relationship has been established .
Information for Patients Since sedation , dizziness , and occasional euphoria have been noted , ambulatory patients should be warned not to operate machinery , drive cars , or unnecessarily expose themselves to hazards .
Pentazocine may cause physical and psychological dependence when taken alone and may have additive CNS depressant properties when taken in combination with alcohol or other CNS depressants .
Drug Interactions Pentazocine is a mild narcotic antagonist .
Some patients previously given narcotics , including methadone for the daily treatment of narcotic dependence , have experienced withdrawal symptoms after receiving pentazocine .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis , mutagenesis , and impairment of fertility studies have not been done with this combination product .
Pentazocine , when administered orally or parenterally , had no adverse effect on either the reproductive capabilities or the course of pregnancy in rabbits and rats .
Embryotoxic effects on the fetuses were not shown .
The daily administration of 4 mg / kg to 20 mg / kg pentazocine subcutaneously to female rats during a 14 day pre - mating period and until the 13 th day of pregnancy did not have any adverse effects on the fertility rate .
There is no evidence in long - term animal studies to demonstrate that pentazocine is carcinogenic .
Pregnancy Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets .
It is also not known whether pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women or can affect reproduction capacity .
Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should be given to pregnant women only if clearly needed .
However , animal reproduction studies with pentazocine have not demonstrated teratogenic or embryotoxic effects .
Nonteratogenic Effects There has been no experience in this regard with the combination pentazocine and acetaminophen .
However , there have been rare reports of possible abstinence syndromes in newborns after prolonged use of pentazocine during pregnancy .
Labor and Delivery Patients receiving pentazocine during labor have experienced no adverse effects other than those that occur with commonly used analgesics .
Pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets should be used with caution in women delivering premature infants .
The effect of pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets on the mother and fetus , the duration of labor or delivery , the possibility that forceps delivery or other intervention or resuscitation of the newborn may be necessary , or the effect of pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets on the later growth , development , and functional maturation of the child are unknown at the present time .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets are administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 12 have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets has been insufficient to define all possible adverse reactions with this combination .
However , reactions reported after oral administration of pentazocine hydrochloride in 50 mg dosage include gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting , infrequently constipation ; and rarely abdominal distress , anorexia , diarrhea .
CNS effects : dizziness , lightheadedness , hallucinations , sedation , euphoria , headache , confusion , disorientation ; infrequently weakness , disturbed dreams , insomnia , syncope , visual blurring and focusing difficulty , depression ; and rarely tremor , irritability , excitement , tinnitus .
Autonomic : sweating ; infrequently flushing ; and rarely chills .
Allergic : infrequently rash ; and rarely urticaria , edema of the face .
Cardiovascular : infrequently decrease in blood pressure , tachycardia .
Hematologic : rarely depression of white blood cells ( especially granulocytes ) , which is usually reversible , moderate transient eosinophilia .
Other : rarely respiratory depression , urinary retention , paresthesia , serious skin reactions , including erythema multiforme , Stevens - Johnson Syndrome , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and in one instance , an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported .
Numerous clinical studies have shown that acetaminophen , when taken in recommended doses , is relatively free of adverse effects in most age groups , even in the presence of a variety of disease states .
A few cases of hypersensitivity to acetaminophen have been reported , as manifested by skin rashes , thrombocytopenic purpura , rarely hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis .
Occasional individuals respond to ordinary doses with nausea and vomiting and diarrhea .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Controlled Substance .
The combination of pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets is a Schedule IV controlled substance .
Abuse and Dependence .
There have been some reports of dependence and of withdrawal symptoms with orally administered pentazocine .
There have been recorded instances of psychological and physical dependence in patients using parenteral pentazocine .
Abrupt discontinuance following the extended use of parenteral pentazocine has resulted in withdrawal symptoms .
Patients with a history of drug dependence should be under close supervision while receiving pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets .
There have been rare reports of possible abstinence syndromes in newborns after prolonged use of pentazocine during pregnancy .
Some tolerance to the analgesic and subjective effects of pentazocine develops with frequent and repeated use .
Drug addicts who are given closely spaced doses of pentazocine ( e . g . , 60 mg to 90 mg every 4 hours ) develop physical dependence which is demonstrated by abrupt withdrawal or by administration of naloxone .
The withdrawal symptoms exhibited after chronic doses of more than 500 mg of pentazocine per day have similar characteristics , but to a lesser degree , of opioid withdrawal and may be associated with drug seeking behavior .
OVERDOSAGE Manifestations Clinical experience with pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets has been insufficient to define the signs of overdosage with this product .
It may be assumed that signs and symptoms of pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets overdose would be a combination of those observed with pentazocine overdose and acetaminophen overdose .
For pentazocine alone in single doses above 60 mg there have been reports of the occurrence of nalorphine - like psychotomimetic effects such as anxiety , nightmares , strange thoughts , and hallucinations .
Marked respiratory depression associated with increased blood pressure and tachycardia have also resulted from excessive doses as have dizziness , nausea , vomiting , lethargy , and paresthesias .
The respiratory depression is antagonized by naloxone ( see Treatment ) .
In acute acetaminophen overdosage , dose - dependent , potentially fatal hepatic necrosis is the most serious adverse effect .
Renal tubular necrosis , hypoglycemic coma , and thrombocytopenia may also occur .
In adults , a single dose of 10 g to 15 g ( 200 mg / kg to 250 mg / kg ) of acetaminophen may cause hepatotoxicity .
A dose of 25 g or more is potentially fatal .
The potential seriousness of the intoxication may not be evident during the first two days of acute acetaminophen poisoning .
During the first 24 hours , nausea , vomiting , anorexia , and abdominal pain occur .
These may persist for a week or more .
Liver injury may become evident the second day , initial signs being elevation of the serum transaminase and lactic dehydrogenase activity , increased serum bilirubin concentration , and prolongation of prothrombin time .
Serum albumin concentration and alkaline phosphatase activity may remain normal .
The hepatotoxicity may lead to encephalopathy , coma , and death .
Transient azotemia is evident in a majority of patients and acute renal failure occurs in some .
There have been reports of glycosuria and impaired glucose tolerance , but hypoglycemia may also occur .
Metabolic acidosis and metabolic alkalosis have been reported .
Cerebral edema and nonspecific myocardial depression have also been noted .
Biopsy reveals centrolobular necrosis with sparing of the periportal area .
The hepatic lesions are reversible over a period of weeks or months in nonfatal cases .
The severity of the liver injury can be determined by measurement of the plasma halftime of acetaminophen during the first day of acute poisoning .
If the halftime exceeds 4 hours , hepatic necrosis is likely and if the halftime is greater than 12 hours , hepatic coma will probably occur .
Only minimal liver damage has developed when the serum concentration was below 120 mcg / mL at 12 hours after ingestion of the drug .
If serum bilirubin concentration is greater than 4 mg / 100 mL during the first 5 days , encephalopathy may occur .
The seven day oral LD50 value for pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets in mice is 3 , 570 mg / kg .
Treatment Oxygen , intravenous fluids , vasopressors , and other supportive measures should be employed as indicated .
Assisted or controlled ventilation should also be considered .
For respiratory depression due to overdosage or unusual sensitivity to pentazocine hydrochloride and acetaminophen tablets , parenteral naloxone is a specific and effective antagonist .
The toxic effects of acetaminophen may be prevented or minimized by antidotal therapy with N - acetylcysteine .
In order to obtain the best possible results , N - acetylcysteine should be administered within approximately 16 hours of ingestion of the overdose .
For complete prescribing information for the approved use of acetylcysteine in the treatment of acetaminophen overdose , see the package insert for acetylcysteine .
Vigorous supportive therapy is required in severe intoxication .
Procedures to limit the continuing absorption of the drug must be readily performed since the hepatic injury is dose dependent and occurs early in the course of intoxication .
Induction of vomiting or gastric lavage , followed by oral administration of activated charcoal should be done in all cases .
If hemodialysis can be initiated within the first 12 hours , it is advocated for patients with a plasma acetaminophen concentration exceeding 120 mcg / mL at 4 hours after ingestion of the drug .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Adult .
The usual adult dose is 1 tablet every 4 hours as needed for pain relief , up to maximum of 6 tablets per day .
The usual duration of therapy is dependent upon the condition being treated but in any case should be reviewed regularly by the physician .
The effect of meals on the rate and extent of bioavailability of both pentazocine and acetaminophen has not been documented .
HOW SUPPLIED Pentazocine Hydrochloride and Acetaminophen Tablets , 25 mg base / 650 mg are light aqua , capsule - shaped , scored tablets , debossed 396 to the left of the score , 25 over 650 to the right of the score and WATSON on the reverse side supplied in bottles of 100 .
Store at controlled room temperature 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP . ]
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Watson Laboratories , Inc .
Corona , CA 92880 USA 30276 - 4 Revised : February 2004 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
