Boxed Warning : Fetal Toxicity 01 / 2012 Dosage and Administration ( ) 10 / 2012 2 Contraindications ( ) 10 / 2012 4 Warnings and Precautions : Fetal Toxicity ( ) 01 / 2012 5 . 5 WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules as soon as possible ( 5 . 5 ) .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( 5 . 5 ) WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules as soon as possible ( ) .
Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus ( ) .
5 . 55 . 5 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules are a combination capsule of amlodipine , a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker ( DHP CCB ) and benazepril , an angiotensin converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent ( ) 1 1 . 1 Hypertension Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules are indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients not adequately controlled on monotherapy with either agent .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Dose once - daily • May be used as add - on therapy for patients not adequately controlled with either a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker or an ACE inhibitor ( ) 2 . 2 • Patients who experience edema with amlodipine may be switched to capsules containing a lower dose of amlodipine ( ) 2 . 2 • Start amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules at 2 . 5 / 10 mg in patients ≥ 75 years old or in patients with hepatic impairment ( ) 2 2 . 1 General Considerations The recommended initial dose of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is one capsule of amlodipine 2 . 5 mg / benazepril 10 mg orally once daily .
It is usually appropriate to begin therapy with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules only after a patient has either ( a ) failed to achieve the desired antihypertensive effect with amlodipine or benazepril monotherapy , or ( b ) demonstrated inability to achieve adequate antihypertensive effect with amlodipine therapy without developing edema .
The antihypertensive effect of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is largely attained within 2 weeks .
If blood pressure remains uncontrolled , the dose may be titrated up to amlodipine 10 mg / benazepril 40 mg once daily .
The dosing should be individualized and adjusted according to the patient ’ s clinical response .
Amlodipine is an effective treatment of hypertension in once - daily doses of 2 . 5 - 10 mg while benazepril is effective in doses of 10 - 80 mg .
In clinical trials of amlodipine / benazepril combination therapy using amlodipine doses of 2 . 5 - 10 mg and benazepril doses of 10 - 40 mg , the antihypertensive effects increased with increasing dose of amlodipine in all patient groups , and the effects increased with increasing dose of benazepril in nonblack groups .
2 . 2 Dosage adjustment in renal impairment Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min .
No dose adjustment of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is required in patients with creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min / 1 . 73m2 ( serum creatinine roughly ≤ 3 mg / dL or 265 μmol / L ) [ see ] .
Renal Impairment : Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) 2 . 3 Replacement Therapy Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules may be substituted for the titrated components .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules are available as follows : 2 . 5 / 10 mg , 5 / 10 mg , 5 / 20 mg , 5 / 40 mg , 10 / 20 mg , and 10 / 40 mg .
Capsules ( amlodipine / benazepril mg ) : 2 . 5 / 10 , 5 / 10 , 5 / 20 , 5 / 40 , 10 / 20 , 10 / 40 ( ) 3 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • Do not co - administer aliskiren with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , including amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with diabetes .
• Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema , with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment , or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril , to any other ACE inhibitor , to amlodipine , or to any of the excipients of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
• Do not co - administer aliskiren with ARBs or ACEIs , including amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , in patients with diabetes ( ) 4 • Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are contraindicated in patients with a history of angioedema , with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment , or patients who are hypersensitive to benazepril , to any other ACE inhibitor , or to amlodipine .
( ) 4 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Watch for anaphylactoid reactions , including angioedema ( head , neck or intestinal ) ( ) 5 . 1 • Warn patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease about the risk of myocardial infarction or increased angina ( ) 5 . 2 • Assess for hypotension and hyperkalemia ( and ) 5 . 45 . 8 • Avoid fetal or neonatal exposure ( ) 5 . 5 • Titrate slowly in patients with impaired hepatic ( ) or severely impaired renal ( ) function .
5 . 65 . 7 5 . 1 Anaphylactoidand Possibly Related Reactions Presumably because angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitors affect the metabolism of eicosanoids and polypeptides , including endogenous bradykinin , patients receiving ACE inhibitors ( including Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules ) may be subject to a variety of adverse reactions , some of them serious .
These reactions usually occur after one of the first few doses of the ACE inhibitor , but they sometimes do not appear until after months of therapy .
Black patients receiving ACE inhibitors have a higher incidence of angioedema compared to nonblacks .
Angioedema of the face , extremities , lips , tongue , glottis , and larynx has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
In U . S . clinical trials , symptoms consistent with angioedema were seen in none of the subjects who received placebo and in about 0 . 5 % of the subjects who received benazepril .
Angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal .
If laryngeal stridor or angioedema of the face , tongue , or glottis occurs , discontinue treatment with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and treat immediately .
[ see ] .
Head and Neck Angioedema : When involvement of the tongue , glottis , or larynx appears likely to cause airway obstruction , appropriate therapy , e . g . , administer subcutaneous epinephrine injection 1 : 1000 ( 0 . 3 - 0 . 5 mL ) , promptlyAdverse Reactions ( 6 ) Intestinal angioedema has been reported in patients treated with ACE inhibitors .
These patients presented with abdominal pain ( with or without nausea or vomiting ) ; in some cases there was no prior history of facial angioedema and C - 1 esterase levels were normal .
The angioedema was diagnosed by procedures including abdominal CT scan or ultrasound , or at surgery , and symptoms resolved after stopping the ACE inhibitor .
Intestinal angioedema should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients on ACE inhibitors presenting with abdominal pain .
IntestinalAngioedema : Two patients undergoing desensitizing treatment with hymenoptera venom while receiving ACE inhibitors sustained life - threatening anaphylactoid reactions .
In the same patients , these reactions were avoided when ACE inhibitors were temporarily withheld , but they reappeared upon inadvertent rechallenge .
AnaphylactoidReactions During Desensitization : Anaphylactoid reactions have been reported in patients dialyzed with high - flux membranes and treated concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor .
Anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported in patients undergoing low - density lipoprotein apheresis with dextran sulfate absorption .
AnaphylactoidReactions During Membrane Exposure : 5 . 2 Increased Angina and / or Myocardial Infarction Worsening angina and acute myocardial infarction can develop after starting or increasing the dose of amlodipine , particularly in patients with severe obstructive coronary artery disease .
5 . 3 Patients with Aortic and Mitral Valve Stenosis , Obstructive Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy As with all other vasodilators , special caution is required when using amlodipine in patients suffering from aortic or mitral stenosis , or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy .
5 . 4 Hypotension Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules can cause symptomatic hypotension .
Symptomatic hypotension is most likely to occur in patients who have been volume or salt depleted as a result of diuretic therapy , dietary salt restriction , dialysis , diarrhea , or vomiting .
Volume and / or salt depletion should be corrected before starting therapy with benazepril .
If hypotension occurs , the patient should be placed in the supine position and if necessary given physiological saline i . v . Treatment with benazepril can be continued once blood pressure and volume have returned to normal .
In patients with congestive heart failure , with or without associated renal insufficiency , ACE inhibitor therapy may cause excessive hypotension , which may be associated with oliguria , azotemia , and ( rarely ) with acute renal failure and death .
In such patients , start amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride therapy under close medical supervision ; follow closely for the first 2 weeks of treatment and whenever the dose of the benazepril component is increased or a diuretic is added or its dose increased .
Symptomatic hypotension is also possible in patients with severe aortic stenosis .
5 . 5 Fetal Toxicity Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules as soon as possible [ see ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Use in Specific Populations 5 . 6 Hepatitis and Hepatic Failure There have been rare reports of predominantly cholestatic hepatitis and isolated cases of acute liver failure , some of them fatal , in patients on ACE inhibitors .
The mechanism is not understood .
Patients receiving ACE inhibitors who develop jaundice or marked elevation of hepatic enzymes should discontinue the ACE inhibitor and be kept under medical surveillance .
5 . 7 Impaired Renal Function Monitor renal function periodically in patients treated with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Changes in renal function , including acute renal failure , can be caused by drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , severe heart failure , post - myocardial infarction or volume depletion ) or who are on NSAIDS or angiotensin receptor blockers may be at particular risk of developing acute renal failure on amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
5 . 8 Hyperkalemia Monitor serum potassium periodically in patients receiving amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Drugs that affect the renin - angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia .
Risk factors for the development of hyperkalemia include renal insufficiency , diabetes mellitus , and the concomitant use of potassium - sparing diuretics , potassium supplements , and / or potassium - containing salt substitutes .
In U . S . placebo - controlled trials of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , hyperkalemia ( serum potassium at least 0 . 5 mEq / L greater than the upper limit of normal ) not present at baseline occurred in approximately 1 . 5 % of hypertensive patients receiving amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Increases in serum potassium were generally reversible .
5 . 9 Cough Presumably due to the inhibition of the degradation of endogenous bradykinin , persistent nonproductive cough has been reported with all ACE inhibitors , generally resolving after discontinuation of therapy .
Consider ACE inhibitor - induced cough in the differential diagnosis of cough .
5 . 10 Surgery / Anesthesia In patients undergoing surgery or during anesthesia with agents that produce hypotension , benazepril will block the angiotensin II formation that could otherwise occur secondary to compensatory renin release .
Hypotension that occurs as a result of this mechanism can be corrected by volume expansion .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Discontinuation because of adverse reactions occurred in 4 % of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsule - treated patients and 3 % of placebo - treated patients .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules were cough and edema .
( ) 6 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Sandoz Inc at 1 - 800 - 525 - 8747 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 6 . 1 ClinicalTrialsExperience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
The adverse reaction information from clinical trials does , however , provide a basis for identifying the adverse events that appear to be related to drug use and for approximating rates .
Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride has been evaluated for safety in over 2 , 991 patients with hypertension ; over 500 of these patients were treated for at least 6 months , and over 400 were treated for more than 1 year .
In a pooled analysis of 5 placebo - controlled trials involving amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride doses up to 5 / 20 , the reported side effects were generally mild and transient , and there was no relationship between side effects and age , sex , race , or duration of therapy .
Discontinuation of therapy due to side effects was required in approximately 4 % of patients treated with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride and in 3 % of patients treated with placebo .
The most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride in these studies were cough and edema ( including angioedema ) .
The peripheral edema associated with amlodipine use is dose - dependent .
When benazepril is added to a regimen of amlodipine , the incidence of edema is substantially reduced .
The addition of benazepril to a regimen of amlodipine should not be expected to provide additional antihypertensive effect in African - Americans .
However , all patient groups benefit from the reduction in amlodipine - induced edema .
The side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in these trials in more than 1 % of patients treated with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride are shown in the table below .
Cough was the only adverse event with at least possible relationship to treatment that was more common on amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride ( 3 . 3 % ) than on placebo ( 0 . 2 % ) .
PERCENT INCIDENCE IN U . S . PLACEBO - CONTROLLED TRIALS Benazepril / Amlodipine Benazepril Amlodipine Placebo N = 760 N = 554 N = 475 N = 408 Cough 3 . 3 1 . 8 0 . 4 0 . 2 Headache 2 . 2 3 . 8 2 . 9 5 . 6 Dizziness 1 . 3 1 . 6 2 . 3 1 . 5 Edema * 2 . 1 0 . 9 5 . 1 2 . 2 * Edema refers to all edema , such as dependent edema , angioedema , facial edema .
The incidence of edema was greater in patients treated with amlodipine monotherapy ( 5 . 1 % ) than in patients treated with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride ( 2 . 1 % ) or placebo ( 2 . 2 % ) .
Other side effects considered possibly or probably related to study drug that occurred in U . S . placebo - controlled trials of patients treated with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride or in postmarketing experience were the following : Asthenia and fatigue .
Body as a Whole : Insomnia , nervousness , anxiety , tremor , and decreased libido .
CNS : Flushing , hot flashes , rash , skin nodule , and dermatitis .
Dermatologic : Dry mouth , nausea , abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dyspepsia , and esophagitis .
Digestive : Neutropenia Hematologic : Hypokalemia .
Metabolic and Nutritional : Back pain , musculoskeletal pain , cramps , and muscle cramps .
Musculoskeletal : Pharyngitis .
Respiratory : Sexual problems such as impotence , and polyuria .
Urogenital : Monotherapies of benazepril and amlodipine have been evaluated for safety in clinical trials in over 6 , 000 and 11 , 000 patients , respectively .
The observed adverse reactions to the monotherapies in these trials were similar to those seen in trials of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride .
6 . 2 Post - marketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In postmarketing experience with benazepril , there have been rare reports of Stevens - Johnson syndrome , pancreatitis , hemolytic anemia , pemphigus , thrombocytopenia , paresthesia , dysgeusia , orthostatic symptoms and hypotension , angina pectoris and arrhythmia , pruritus , photosensitivity reaction , arthralgia , arthritis , myalgia , BUN increase , serum creatinine increased , renal impairment , impaired vision , agranulocytosis , neutropenia .
Rare reports in association with use of amlodipine : gingival hyperplasia , tachycardia , jaundice , and hepatic enzyme elevations ( mostly consistent with cholestasis severe enough to require hospitalization ) , leucocytopenia , allergic reaction , hyperglycemia , dysgeusia , hypoesthesia , paresthesia , syncope , peripheral neuropathy , hypertonia , visual impairment , diplopia , hypotension , vasculitis , rhinitis , gastritis , hyperhidrosis , pruritis , skin discoloration , urticaria , erythema multiform , muscle spasms , arthralgia , micturition disorder , nocturia , erectile dysfunction , malaise , weight decrease or gain .
Other potentially important adverse experiences attributed to other ACE inhibitors and calcium channel blockers include : eosinophilic pneumonitis ( ACE inhibitors ) and gynecomastia ( CCBs ) .
Other infrequently reported events included chest pain , ventricular extrasystole , gout , neuritis , tinnitus , alopecia , upper respiratory tract infection , palpitations and somnolence .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Potassium supplements / Potassium - sparing diuretics : risk of hyperkalemia • Lithium : Increased serum Lithium levels ; toxicity symptoms • Injectable gold : facial flushing , nausea , vomiting , or hypotension may occur • NSAID : Risk of renal dysfunction , loss of antihypertensive effect ( ) 7 . 1 • If simvastatin is co - administered with amlodipine , do not exceed doses greater than 20 mg daily of simvastatin ( ) 7 . 1 • Dual inhibition of the renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( ) 7 . 1 7 . 1 Drug / Drug interactions Amlodipine Co - administration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of simvastatin .
Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily .
Simvastatin : Co - administration with CYP3A inhibitors ( moderate and strong ) results in increased systemic exposure to amlodipine and may require dose reduction .
Monitor for symptoms of hypotension and edema when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A4 inhibitors to determine the need for dose adjustment .
CYP3A4 Inhibitors : No information is available on the quantitative effects of CYP3A4 inducers on amlodipine .
Blood pressure should be monitored when amlodipine is co - administered with CYP3A4 inducers .
CYP3A4 Inducers : Benazepril Benazepril can attenuate potassium loss caused by thiazide diuretics .
Potassium - sparing diuretics ( spironolactone , amiloride , triamterene , and others ) or potassium supplements can increase the risk of hyperkalemia .
If concomitant use of such agents is indicated , the patient ’ s serum potassium should be monitored frequently .
Potassium Supplements and Potassium - Sparing Diuretics : Increased serum lithium levels and symptoms of lithium toxicity have been reported in patients receiving ACE inhibitors during therapy with lithium .
When coadministering amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride and lithium , frequent monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended .
Lithium : Nitritoid reactions ( symptoms include facial flushing , nausea , vomiting and hypotension ) have been reported rarely in patients on therapy with injectable gold ( sodium aurothiomalate ) and concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy .
Gold : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
Monitor renal function periodically in patients receiving benazepril and NSAID therapy .
Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : The antihypertensive effect of ACE inhibitors , including benazepril , may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
In rare cases , diabetic patients receiving an ACE inhibitor ( including benazepril ) concomitantly with insulin or oral antidiabetics may develop hypoglycemia .
Such patients should therefore be advised about the possibility of hypoglycemic reactions , and should be monitored accordingly .
Antidiabetic agents : Dual blockade of the RAS with angiotensin receptor blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and changes in renal function ( including acute renal failure ) compared to monotherapy .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules and other agents that block the RAS .
Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin System ( RAS ) : Do not co - administer aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with diabetes .
Avoid use of aliskiren with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 ml / min ) .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS It is not known whether amlodipine is excreted in human milk .
Nursing or drug should be discontinued .
( ) Nursing Mothers : 8 . 3 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules as soon as possible .
These adverse outcomes are usually associated with use of these drugs in the second and third trimester of pregnancy .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Appropriate management of maternal hypertension during pregnancy is important to optimize outcomes for both mother and fetus .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
Perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of pregnancy .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia [ see ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Use in Specific Populations 8 . 2 Labor and Delivery The effect of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride on labor and delivery has not been studied .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers Minimal amounts of unchanged benazepril and of benazeprilat are excreted into the breast milk of lactating women treated with benazepril , so that a newborn child ingesting nothing but breast milk would receive less than 0 . 1 % of the maternal doses of benazepril and benazeprilat .
It is not known whether amlodipine is excreted in human milk .
Nursing or drug should be discontinued .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , direct attention toward support of blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
Benazepril , which crosses the placenta , can theoretically be removed from the neonatal circulation by these means ; there are occasional reports of benefit from these maneuvers , but experience is limited .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In geriatrics , exposure to amlodipine is increased , thus consider lower initial doses of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules [ see ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
Clinical Pharmacology Of the total number of patients who received amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride in U . S . clinical studies of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride , over 19 % were 65 or older while about 2 % were 75 or older .
Overall differences in effectiveness or safety were not observed between these patients and younger patients .
Clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment Exposure to amlodipine is increased in patients with hepatic insufficiency , thus consider using lower doses of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules [ see ] .
Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) 8 . 7 Renal Impairment In patients with severe renal impairment systemic exposure to benazepril is increased .
The recommended dose of benazepril in this subgroup is 5 mg which is not an available strength with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules .
Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment .
No dose adjustment of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules is needed in patients with mild or moderate impairment of renal function [ see ] .
Dosing and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) 10 OVERDOSAGE Only a few cases of human overdose with amlodipine have been reported .
One patient was asymptomatic after a 250 - mg ingestion ; another , who combined 70 mg of amlodipine with an unknown large quantity of a benzodiazepine , developed refractory shock and died .
Human overdoses with any combination of amlodipine and benazepril have not been reported .
In scattered reports of human overdoses with benazepril and other ACE inhibitors , there are no reports of death .
Patients should be admitted to hospital and , generally , should be managed in an intensive care setting , with continuous monitoring of cardiac function , blood gases , and blood biochemistry .
Emergency supportive measures such as artificial ventilation or cardiac pacing should be instituted if appropriate .
Treatment : In the event of a potentially life - threatening oral overdose , use induction of vomiting or gastric lavage and / or activated charcoal to remove the drug from the gastrointestinal tract ( only if presented within 1 hour after ingestion of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules ) .
Other clinical manifestations of overdose should be managed symptomatically based on modern methods of intensive care .
To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is your certified Regional Poison - Control Center .
Telephone numbers of certified poison - control centers are listed in the Physicians ’ Desk Reference ( PDR ) .
In managing overdose , consider the possibilities of multiple - drug overdoses , drug - drug interactions , and unusual drug kinetics in your patient .
The most likely effect of overdose with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride is vasodilation , with consequent hypotension and tachycardia .
Simple repletion of central fluid volume ( Trendelenburg positioning , infusion of crystalloids ) may be sufficient therapy , but pressor agents ( norepinephrine or high - dose dopamine ) may be required .
With abrupt return of peripheral vascular tone , overdoses of other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers have sometimes progressed to pulmonary edema , and patients must be monitored for this complication .
Analyses of bodily fluids for concentrations of amlodipine , benazepril , or their metabolites are not widely available .
Such analyses are , in any event , not known to be of value in therapy or prognosis .
No data are available to suggest physiologic maneuvers ( e . g . , maneuvers to change the pH of the urine ) that might accelerate elimination of amlodipine , benazepril , or their metabolites .
Benazeprilat is only slightly dialyzable ; attempted clearance of amlodipine by hemodialysis or hemo - perfusion has not been reported , but amlodipine ’ s high protein binding makes it unlikely that these interventions will be of value .
Angiotensin II could presumably serve as a specific antagonist - antidote to benazepril , but angiotensin II is essentially unavailable outside of scattered research laboratories .
11 DESCRIPTION Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are a combination of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride .
Benazepril hydrochloride is a white to off - white crystalline powder , soluble ( > 100 mg / mL ) in water , in ethanol , and in methanol .
Benazepril hydrochloride ’ s chemical name is 3 - [ [ 1 - ( ethoxycarbonyl ) - 3 - phenyl - ( 1 S ) - propyl ] amino ] - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 2 - oxo - 1 - 1 - ( 3 S ) - benzazepine - 1 - acetic acid monohydrochloride ; its structural formula is H [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C H N O • HCl , and its molecular weight is 460 . 96 .
242825 Benazeprilat , the active metabolite of benazepril , is a nonsulfhydryl angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor .
Benazepril is converted to benazeprilat by hepatic cleavage of the ester group .
Amlodipine besylate is a white to pale yellow crystalline powder , slightly soluble in water and sparingly soluble in ethanol .
Its chemical name is ( R , S ) 3 - ethyl - 5 - methyl - 2 - ( 2 - aminoethoxymethyl ) - 4 - ( 2 - chlorophenyl ) - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 6 - methyl - 3 , 5 - pyridinedicarboxylate benzenesulfonate ; its structural formula is [ MULTIMEDIA ] Its empirical formula is C H ClN O • C H O S , and its molecular weight is 567 . 1 .
202525663 Amlodipine besylate is the besylate salt of amlodipine , a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker .
Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are formulated in six different strengths for oral administration with a combination of amlodipine besylate equivalent to 2 . 5 mg , 5 mg or 10 mg of amlodipine , with 10 mg , 20 mg or 40 mg of benazepril hydrochloride providing for the following available combinations : 2 . 5 / 10 mg , 5 / 10 mg , 5 / 20 mg , 5 / 40 mg , 10 / 20 mg and 10 / 40 mg .
The inactive ingredients of the capsules are calcium phosphate , cellulose compounds , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , gelatin , hydrogenated castor oil ( not present in 5 / 40 mg or 10 / 40 mg strengths ) , iron oxides , lactose , magnesium stearate , polysorbate 80 , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch ( potato ) glycolate , starch ( corn ) , talc , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Benazepril Benazepril and benazeprilat inhibit angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) in human subjects and in animals .
ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance angiotensin II .
Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortex .
Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin II , which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretion .
The latter decrease may result in a small increase of serum potassium .
Hypertensive patients treated with benazepril and amlodipine for up to 56 weeks had elevations of serum potassium up to 0 . 2 mEq / L [ see ( 5 ) ] .
Warnings and Precautions Removal of angiotensin II negative feedback on renin secretion leads to increased plasma renin activity .
In animal studies , benazepril had no inhibitory effect on the vasopressor response to angiotensin II and did not interfere with the hemodynamic effects of the autonomic neurotransmitters acetylcholine , epinephrine , and norepinephrine .
ACE is identical to kininase , an enzyme that degrades bradykinin .
Whether increased levels of bradykinin , a potent vasodepressor peptide , play a role in the therapeutic effects of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride remains to be elucidated .
While the mechanism through which benazepril lowers blood pressure is believed to be primarily suppression of the renin - angiotensin aldosterone system , benazepril has an antihypertensive effect even in patients with low - renin hypertension .
Amlodipine Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist ( calcium ion antagonist or slow channel blocker ) that inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle .
Experimental data suggest that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites .
The contractile processes of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent upon the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells through specific ion channels .
Amlodipine inhibits calcium ion influx across cell membranes selectively , with a greater effect on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells .
Negative inotropic effects can be detected in vitro but such effects have not been seen in intact animals at therapeutic doses .
Serum calcium concentration is not affected by amlodipine .
Within the physiologic pH range , amlodipine is an ionized compound ( pKa = 8 . 6 ) , and its kinetic interaction with the calcium channel receptor is characterized by a gradual rate of association and dissociation with the receptor binding site , resulting in a gradual onset of effect .
Amlodipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator that acts directly on vascular smooth muscle to cause a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance and reduction in blood pressure .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Benazepril Single and multiple doses of 10 mg or more of benazepril cause inhibition of plasma ACE activity by at least 80 % - 90 % for at least 24 hours after dosing .
For up to 4 hours after a 10 - mg dose , pressor responses to exogenous angiotensin I were inhibited by 60 % - 90 % .
Administration of benazepril to patients with mild - to - moderate hypertension results in a reduction of both supine and standing blood pressure to about the same extent , with no compensatory tachycardia .
Symptomatic postural hypotension is infrequent , although it can occur in patients who are salt and / or volume depleted [ see ( 5 ) ] .
Warnings and Precautions The antihypertensive effects of benazepril were not appreciably different in patients receiving high - or low - sodium diets .
In normal human volunteers , single doses of benazepril caused an increase in renal blood flow but had no effect on glomerular filtration rate .
Amlodipine Following administration of therapeutic doses to patients with hypertension , amlodipine produces vasodilation resulting in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressures .
These decreases in blood pressure are not accompanied by a significant change in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with chronic dosing .
With chronic once daily administration , antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours .
Plasma concentrations correlate with effect in both young and elderly patients .
The magnitude of reduction in blood pressure with amlodipine is also correlated with the height of pretreatment elevation ; thus , individuals with moderate hypertension ( diastolic pressure 105 - 114 mmHg ) had about 50 % greater response than patients with mild hypertension ( diastolic pressure 90 - 104 mmHg ) .
Normotensive subjects experienced no clinically significant change in blood pressure ( + 1 / - 2 mmHg ) .
In hypertensive patients with normal renal function , therapeutic doses of amlodipine resulted in a decrease in renal vascular resistance and an increase in glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow without change in filtration fraction or proteinuria .
As with other calcium channel blockers , hemodynamic measurements of cardiac function at rest and during exercise ( or pacing ) in patients with normal ventricular function treated with amlodipine have generally demonstrated a small increase in cardiac index without significant influence on dP / dt or on left ventricular end diastolic pressure or volume .
In hemodynamic studies , amlodipine has not been associated with a negative inotropic effect when administered in the therapeutic dose range to intact animals and humans , even when coadministered with beta blockers to humans .
Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial ( SA ) nodal function or atrioventricular ( AV ) conduction in intact animals or humans .
In clinical studies in which amlodipine was administered in combination with beta blockers to patients with either hypertension or angina , no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were observed .
Amlodipine has demonstrated beneficial clinical effects in patients with chronic stable angina , vasospastic angina and angiographically documented coronary artery disease .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The rate and extent of absorption of benazepril and amlodipine from amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules are the same as when administered as individual tablets .
Absorption from the individual tablets is not influenced by the presence of food in the gastrointestinal tract ; food effects on absorption from amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules have not been studied .
Following oral administration of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , peak plasma concentrations of amlodipine are reached in 6 – 12 hours .
Absolute bioavailability has been calculated as between 64 % and 90 % .
Following oral administration of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , the peak plasma concentrations of benazepril are reached in 0 . 5 - 2 hours .
The cleavage of the ester group ( primarily in the liver ) converts benazepril to its active metabolite , benazeprilat , which reaches peak plasma concentrations in 1 . 5 - 4 hours .
The extent of absorption of benazepril is at least 37 % .
Amlodipine and benazepril exhibit dose proportional pharmacokinetics between the therapeutic dose range of 2 . 5 and 10 mg and 10 and 20 mg , respectively .
Absorption : The apparent volume of distribution of amlodipine is about 21 L / kg .
studies indicate that approximately 93 % of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients .
The apparent volume of distribution of benazeprilat is about 0 . 7 L / kg .
Approximately 93 % of circulating amlodipine is bound to plasma proteins , and the bound fraction of benazeprilat is slightly higher .
On the basis of in vitro studies , benazeprilat ’ s degree of protein binding should be unaffected by age , by hepatic dysfunction , or — over the therapeutic concentration range — by concentration .
Distribution : In vitro Amlodipine is extensively ( approximately 90 % ) metabolized in the liver to inactive metabolites .
Benazepril is extensively metabolized to form benazeprilat as the main metabolite , which occurs by enzymatic hydrolysis , mainly in the liver .
Two minor metabolites are the acyl glucuronide conjugates of benazepril and benazeprilat .
Metabolism : Amlodipine elimination from plasma is biphasic with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 30 to 50 hours .
Steady - state plasma levels are reached after once - daily dosing for 7 - 8 days .
10 % of unchanged drug and 60 % of amlodipine metabolites are excreted in urine .
Effective elimination half - life of amlodipine is 2 days .
Benazepril is eliminated mainly by metabolic clearance .
Benazeprilat is eliminated via the kidneys and the bile ; renal excretion is the main route in patients with normal renal function .
In the urine , benazepril accounts for less than 1 % and benazeprilat for about 20 % of an oral dose .
Elimination of benazeprilat is biphasic with an initial half - life of about 3 hours and a terminal half - life of about 22 hours .
Benazeprilat ’ s effective elimination half - life is 10 - 11 hours , while that of amlodipine is about 2 days , so steady - state levels of the two components are achieved after about a week of once - daily dosing .
Elimination : Special populations No specific clinical studies were performed to understand the impact of age on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine and benazepril as fixed dose combination .
As individual component amlodipine is extensively metabolized in the liver .
In the elderly , clearance of amlodipine is decreased with resulting increases in peak plasma levels , elimination half - life and area - under - the - plasma - concentration curve [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 5 ) ] .
Geriatric patients : Patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with a resulting increase in AUC of approximately 40 – 60 % .
Pharmacokinetics of benazepril is not significantly influenced by hepatic impairment [ see ] .
Hepatic impairment : Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) The disposition of benazepril and benazeprilat in patients with mild - to - moderate renal insufficiency ( creatinine clearance > 30 mL / min ) is similar to that in patients with normal renal function .
In patients with creatinine clearance ≤ 30 mL / min , peak benazeprilat levels and the effective half - life increase , resulting in higher systemic exposures .
Pharmacokinetics of amlodipine is not significantly influenced by renal impairment [ see ] .
Renal impairment : Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 2 ) , Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) and Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) Drug interactions Amlodipine data in human plasma indicate that amlodipine has no effect on the protein binding of digoxin , phenytoin , warfarin , and indomethacin .
In vitro Co - administration of amlodipine with cimetidine did not alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Cimetidine : Co - administration of 240 mL of grapefruit juice with a single oral dose of amlodipine 10 mg in 20 healthy volunteers had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Grapefruit juice : Co - administration of the antacid Maalox with a single dose of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine .
Maalox ® ( antacid ) : A single 100 mg dose of sildenafil in subjects with essential hypertension had no effect on the pharmacokinetic parameters of amlodipine .
When amlodipine and sildenafil were used in combination , each agent independently exerted its own blood pressure lowering effect .
Sildenafil : Co - administration of multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine with 80 mg of atorvastatin resulted in no significant change in the steady - state pharmacokinetic parameters of atorvastatin .
Atorvastatin : Co - administration of amlodipine with digoxin did not change serum digoxin levels or digoxin renal clearance in normal volunteers .
Digoxin : Single and multiple 10 mg doses of amlodipine had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ethanol .
Ethanol ( alcohol ) : Co - administration of amlodipine with warfarin did not change the warfarin prothrombin response time .
Warfarin : Co - administration of multiple doses of 10 mg of amlodipine with 80 mg simvastatin resulted in a 77 % increase in exposure to simvastatin compared to simvastatin alone .
Simvastatin : Co - administration of a 180 mg daily dose of diltiazem with 5 mg amlodipine in elderly hypertensive patients resulted in a 60 % increase in amlodipine systemic exposure .
Erythromycin co - administration in healthy volunteers did not significantly change amlodipine systemic exposure .
However , strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole , ritonavir ) may increase the plasma concentrations of amlodipine to a greater extent .
CYP3A inhibitors : Benazepril The pharmacokinetic properties of benazepril are not affected by hydrochlorothiazide , furosemide , chlorthalidone , digoxin , propranolol , atenolol , nifedipine , amlodipine , naproxen , acetylsalicylic acid , or cimetidine .
Likewise the administration of benazepril does not substantially affect the pharmacokinetics of these medications .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been conducted with this combination .
However , these studies have been conducted with amlodipine and benazepril alone ( see below ) .
No adverse effects on fertility occurred when the benazepril : amlodipine combination was given orally to rats of either sex at doses up to 15 : 7 . 5 mg ( benazepril : amlodipine ) / kg / day , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
No evidence of carcinogenicity was found when benazepril was administered to rats and mice for up to two years at doses of up to 150 mg / kg / day .
When compared on the basis of body surface area , this dose is 18 and 9 times ( rats and mice , respectively ) the maximum recommended human dose ( calculations assume a patient weight of 60 kg ) .
No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria , in an test for forward mutations in cultured mammalian cells , or in a nucleus anomaly test .
At doses of 50 - 500 mg / kg / day ( 6 - 60 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis ) , benazepril had no adverse effect on the reproductive performance of male and female rats .
Benazepril : in vitro Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet for up to two years , at concentrations calculated to provide daily dosage levels of 0 . 5 , 1 . 25 , and 2 . 5 mg amlodipine / kg / day , showed no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug .
For the mouse , the highest dose was , on a body surface area basis , similar to the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 10 mg amlodipine / day .
For the rat , the highest dose was , on a body surface area basis , about two and a half times the MRHD .
( Calculations based on a 60 kg patient . )
Mutagenicity studies conducted with amlodipine maleate revealed no drug - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
There was no effect on the fertility of rats treated orally with amlodipine maleate ( males for 64 days and females for 14 days prior to mating ) at doses of up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( about 10 times the MRHD of 10 mg / day on a body surface area basis ) .
Amlodipine : 13 . 3 ReproductiveToxicity When rats received benazepril : amlodipine at doses ranging from 5 : 2 . 5 to 50 : 25 mg / kg / day , dystocia was observed at an increasing dose - related incidence at all doses tested .
On a body surface area basis , the 2 . 5 mg / kg / day dose of amlodipine is 3 . 6 times the amlodipine dose delivered when the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride is given to a 50 - kg woman .
Similarly , the 5 mg / kg / day dose of benazepril is approximately twice the benazepril dose delivered when the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride is given to a 50 - kg woman .
No teratogenic effects were seen when benazepril and amlodipine were administered in combination to pregnant rats or rabbits .
Rats received doses of up to 50 : 25 mg ( benazepril : amlodipine ) / kg / day ( 24 times the maximum recommended human dose on a body surface area basis , assuming a 50 - kg woman ) .
Rabbits received doses of up to 1 . 5 : 0 . 75 mg / kg / day ( equivalent to the maximum recommended dose of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride given to a 50 - kg woman ) .
No teratogenic effects of benazepril were seen in studies of pregnant rats , mice , and rabbits .
On a body surface area basis , the maximum doses used in these studies were 60 times ( in rats ) , 9 times ( in mice ) , and about equivalent to ( in rabbits ) the maximum recommended human dose ( assuming a 50 - kg woman ) .
Benazepril : No evidence of teratogenicity or other embryo / fetal toxicity was found when pregnant rats and rabbits were treated orally with amlodipine maleate at doses of up to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day ( respectively , about 10 and 20 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 10 mg amlodipine on a body surface area basis ) during their respective periods of major organogenesis .
( Calculations based on a patient weight of 60 kg . )
However , litter size was significantly decreased ( by about 50 % ) and the number of intrauterine deaths was significantly increased ( about 5 - fold ) for rats receiving amlodipine maleate at a dose equivalent to 10 mg amlodipine / kg / day for 14 days before mating and throughout mating and gestation .
Amlodipine maleate has been shown to prolong both the gestation period and the duration of labor in rats at this dose .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Amlodipine should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Amlodipine : 14 CLINICAL STUDIES Over 950 patients received amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride once daily in six double - blind , placebo - controlled studies .
The antihypertensive effect of a single dose persisted for 24 hours , with peak reductions achieved 2 - 8 hours after dosing .
Once - daily doses of benazepril / amlodipine using benazepril doses of 10 - 20 mg and amlodipine doses of 2 . 5 - 10 mg decreased seated pressure ( systolic / diastolic ) 24 hours after dosing by about 10 - 25 / 6 - 13 mmHg .
In two studies in patients not adequately controlled on either benazepril 40 mg alone ( n = 329 ) or amlodipine 10 mg alone ( n = 812 ) once daily doses of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride 10 / 40 mg further decreased seated blood pressure compared to the respective monotherapy alone .
Combination therapy was effective in blacks and nonblacks .
Both components contributed to the antihypertensive efficacy in nonblacks , but virtually all of the antihypertensive effect in blacks could be attributed to the amlodipine component .
Among nonblack patients in placebo - controlled trials comparing amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride to the individual components , the blood pressure lowering effects of the combination were shown to be additive and in some cases synergistic .
During chronic therapy with amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride , the maximum reduction in blood pressure with any given dose is generally achieved after 1 - 2 weeks .
The antihypertensive effects of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride have continued during therapy for at least 1 year .
Abrupt withdrawal of amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING NDC : 68151 - 1363 - 0 in a PACKAGE of 1 CAPSULES 17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Information for Patients Female patients of childbearing age should be told about the consequences of exposure to amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Patients should be asked to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible .
T2013 - 18 October 2012 FDA - Approved Patient Labeling Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules Read this Patient Information leaflet before you start taking Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This leaflet does not replace talking with your doctor .
If you have any questions , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What is the most important information I should know about Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules ?
• Amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules can cause harm or death to an unborn baby .
• Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
• If you get pregnant while taking amlodipine besylate and benazepril hydrochloride capsules , tell your doctor right away .
What is Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules ?
Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules contain two prescription medicines that work together to lower blood pressure : amlodipine besylate ( the active ingredient found in Norvasc ) , a calcium channel blocker , and benazepril hydrochloride ( Lotensin ) , an ACE inhibitor .
Your doctor will prescribe Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules only after other medicines haven ’ t worked .
®® ) .
Blood pressure is the force of blood in your blood vessels .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
High Blood Pressure ( hypertension Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules have not been studied in children .
Who should not takeAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
There is a complete list at the end of this leaflet .
Don ’ t takeAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsulesif you are allergic to any of the ingredients .
What should I tell my Doctor before takingAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
Tell your doctor about all your medical conditions , including if : • See “ What is the most important information I should know about Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules ? ”
you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules may pass into your milk .
Don ’ t breastfeed while you are taking Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules .
you are breastfeeding .
• you have a heart condition • you have liver problems • you have kidney problems • you are about to have an operation ( including dental surgery ) or emergency treatment • you are suffering from several episodes of vomiting or diarrhea • you are treated for hyperkalemia ( too much potassium in the blood ) • you are already taking a diuretic ( a medicine to increase the amount of urine you produce ) Keep a list of your medicines with you , including vitamins and natural or herbal remedies , to show your doctor or pharmacist .
Some of your other medicines and Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules could affect each other , causing serious side effects .
Tell your doctor about all your medicines , especially : • Simvastatin ( a medicine used to control elevated cholesterol ) • medicines for high blood pressure or heart failure • water pills , extra potassium or a salt substitute • Lithium ( Eskalith , Lithobid ) ®® • potassium - containing medicines , potassium supplements or salt substitutes containing potassium ; • cyclosporine , an immunosuppressant medicine used in transplanted patients to reduce the risk of organ rejection ; • indomethacin and other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents , medicines used to relieve pain and inflammation ; • insulin or oral antidiabetics , medicines that help a person with diabetes to control their level of glucose ( sugar ) in the blood ; • gold for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ; • probenecid , a medicine used to treat gout and hyperuricemia ; • medicines used to prevent and treat fungal skin infections ( e . g . , ketoconazole , itraconazole ) • medicines used to treat AIDS or HIV infections ( e . g . , ritonavir , indinavir ) • medicines used to treat bacterial infections ( e . g . , clarithromycin ) Avoid alcohol until you have discussed the matter with your doctor .
Alcohol may make blood pressure fall more and / or increase the possibility of dizziness or fainting .
How do I takeAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
• Take Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules exactly as your doctor tells you .
• Take Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules at the same time each day , with or without food .
• If you miss a dose , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is more than 12 hours , just take your next dose at the regular time .
• Your doctor may test for kidney problems or check your blood potassium level .
• If you take too much Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules , call your doctor or Poison Control Center , or go to the emergency room .
• Tell all your doctors or dentist you are taking Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules if you : - are going to have surgery - are getting allergy shots for bee stings - go for kidney dialysis What are the possible side effects ofAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules can cause serious side effects including : • Stop Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules and get emergency help right away if you get : - swelling of your face , eyelids , lips , tongue or throat - have trouble swallowing - asthma ( wheezing ) or other breathing problems These allergic reactions are rare but happen more times in people who are African - American .
serious allergic reactions that can be life threatening .
• ( hypotension ) .
Low blood pressure is most likely to happen if you also take water pills , are on a low salt diet , get dialysis treatments , have heart problems or get sick with vomiting or diarrhea .
Lie down if you feel faint or dizzy .
low blood pressure • Call your doctor if : liver problems .
• you have nausea • you feel more tired or weaker than usual • you have itching • your skin or eyes look yellow • you have pain in your upper right stomach • you have flu - like symptoms • Some people will have changes on blood tests for kidney function and need a lower dose of Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules .
Call your doctor if you get swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands or unexplained weight gain .
kidney problems .
• in people that already have severe heart problems .
Get emergency help if you get worse chest pain or chest pain that does not go away .
more chest pain and heart attacks The more common side effects of Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules are : • dizziness , fainting on standing up • cough ( dry , non - productive , mainly at night , continuing ) • swelling of the feet , ankles , and hands If any of these affects you severely , tell your doctor .
These are not all the side effects of Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules .
For a complete list , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
How do I storeAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
• Store Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules at room temperature ( 59 - 86 ° F ) .
• Keep Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules in a closed container in a dry place .
• Keep Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General Information aboutAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules Doctors can also use medicine for a condition that is not in the patient information leaflet .
Take Amlodipine Besylate and Benazepril Hydrochloride Capsules the way your doctor tells you .
Do not share it with other people .
It may harm them .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
What are the ingredients inAmlodipineBesylateandBenazeprilHydrochloride Capsules ?
Active ingredients : amlodipine besylate ( the active ingredient found in Norvasc ) , benazepril hydrochloride ( Lotensin ) ®® Inactive ingredients : calcium phosphate , cellulose compounds , colloidal silicon dioxide , crospovidone , gelatin , hydrogenated castor oil ( not present in 5 / 40 mg and 10 / 40 mg strengths ) , iron oxides , lactose , magnesium stearate , polysorbate 80 , silicon dioxide , sodium lauryl sulfate , sodium starch ( potato ) glycolate , starch ( corn ) , talc , and titanium dioxide .
Norvasc is a registered trademark of Pfizer , Inc .
Lotensin is a registered trademark of Novartis Corp .
Eskalith and Lithobid are registered trademarks of Noven Therapeutics , LLC .
®®®® Manufactured by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp .
Suffern , NY 10901 for Sandoz Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 T2013 - 18 / T2013 - 19 October 2012 / October 2012 Amlodipine Besylate / Benazepril [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
