Active ingredient Octinoxate , 4 . 0 % Titanium Dioxide , 2 . 1 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • • Helps prevent sunburn • • If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use on • • damaged or broken skin When using this product • • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor • • if rash occurs Keep Out of Reach of Children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions • • Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • • Reapply at least every 2 hours • • Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating • • Children under 6 months of age : ask a doctor • • Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses Other Information • • protect the product in this container from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , talc , C12 - 15 Alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , potassium cetyl phosphate , cyclopentasiloxane , glyceryl myristate , isononyl isononanoate , behenyl alcohol , mineral oil , glycerin , propylene glycol , microcrystalline cellulose , cellulose gum , phenoxyethanol , ethylhexylglycerin , malus domestica fruit cell culture , xanthan gum , lecithin , nylon - 12 , triethanolamine , ammonium acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP copolymer , iron oxides , fragrance , butylene glycol , allantoin , caffeine , ascorbic acid , disodium EDTA , tocopheryl acetate ( vitamin E ) , chamomilla recutita ( matricaria ) flower extract , persea gratissima ( avocado ) oil , cucumis sativus ( cucumber ) fruit oil , ginkgo biloba leaf extract , butyrospermum parkii ( shea butter ) , simmondsia chinensis ( jojoba ) seed oil , BHT , camellia sinensis leaf extract , hyaluronic acid .
Package / Label Principal Display Panel Earth & Vine ™ AGE - DEFYING SKINCARE SKIN ILLUMINATOR BB CREAM SPF 15 • • Brightens & evens skin tone • • Formulated with powerful antioxidants • • Broad Spectrum SPF15 • • Light / Medium skin tone • • Enhanced with Nutriplex ™ • • a skin nutrition complex 2 . 5 fl oz 75 mL Return your skin ’ s appearance to its original radiant self with Earth & Vine ™ Skin Illuminator BB Cream .
This BB Cream combines apple stem cells with broad spectrum SPF15 and additional anti - aging ingredients to awaken skin , even skin tone and brightens for smooth , natural looking skin Directions : Apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure .
Reapply every 2 hours .
Use water resistant sunscreen if swimming or sweating .
Children under 6 months : Ask a doctor How Can Apples Deliver Beautiful Skin ?
Earth & Vine ™ is a collection of skincare products uniquely formulated with the stem cells of Uttwiler Spätlauber , a rare Swiss apple with origins dating to the mid - 18 th century .
Long known for its ability to be stockpiled without withering or showing “ signs of aging . ”
Today , this exceptional gift of nature is recognized for its ability to maintain the vibrancy and freshness of skin .
Treat your skin with “ an apple a day ” to awaken dormant skin cells , and to combat chronological aging of the skin .
Earth & Vine ™ is a collection of skin care products that are uniquely formulated to harness the power of fruit stem cells – nature ’ s greatest weapon against the aging process .
Apple stem cells which are known for their anthocyanins – powerful antioxidants that help protect skin from UV radiation , premature photo - aging , oxidative stress .
When blended with other organic anti - aging ingredients , skin looks naturally younger by diminishing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles , evens and brightens skin tone , and clarifies the complexion .
Nutriplex , ™ our exclusive complex of a powerful , proprietary blend of the earth ’ s greatest nutrients and botanicals form a nutritious defense against the aging process .
• • Rare Apple Stem Cells – for anti - aging & anti - wrinkles • • Chamomile – soothes and revitalizes skin • • Green Tea – contains anti - inflammatory properties that slow signs of aging • • Powerful Moisturizers including Shea Butter & Jojoba Oil to nourish and hydrate skin Visit us at www . earthandvineskincare . com Made in Israel Distributed by : Emilia Personal Care 5890 Sawmill Road , Suite 230 Dublin , OH 43017 WD418 83 C1 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
