This is a gel hand sanitizer with citrus fragrance manufactured according to standard CGMP .
The hand sanitizer is manufactured using only the following United States Pharmacopoeia ( USP ) grade ingredients in the preparation of the product ( percentage in final product formulation ) consistent with existing hand sanitizer products sold OTC throughout the United States and Globally : Isopropyl Alcohol ( 70 % , v / v ) in an aqueous solution denatured according to Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau regulations in 27 CFR part 20 .
Glycerin ( 1 . 39 % v / v ) .
Hydroxymethyl Cellulose ( 0 . 7 % v / v ) .
Isopropyl Myristate ( 0 . 07 % v / v ) DL - Alpha - Tocopherol Acetate ( 0 . 07 % v / v ) Sterile distilled water ( 27 . 77 % v / v ) .
The firm does not add other active or inactive ingredients .
Different or additional ingredients may impact the quality and potency of the product .
Active Ingredient ( s ) Isopropyl Alcohol 70 % Purpose Antiseptic / Hand Sanitizer Use ( s ) Hand Sanitizer to help reduce bacteria that potentially cause disease .
For use when soap and water are not available .
Warnings For external use only .
Flammable .
Keep away from flame .
Do Not Use • In children less than 2 months of age • On open skin wounds When using this product keep out of eyes , ears , and mouth .
In case of contact with eyes , rinse eyes thoroughly with water .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may besigns of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Stop use and ask a doctor if irritation or rash occurs .
These may besigns of a serious condition .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • Place enough product on hands to cover all surfaces .
Rub hands together until dry .
• Supervise children under 6 years of age when using this product to avoid swallowing .
Other Information Avoid freezing and excessive heat above 40 C ( 104 F ) Inactive ingredients deionized water , glycerin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , tocopheryl acetate , isopropyl myristate Package Label - Principal Display Panel 1 Gallon ( 3 . 785 L ) NDC : 77807 - 005 - 04 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
