DESCRIPTION Leucovorin Calcium Tablets contain either 5 mg , 10 mg , 15 mg or 25 mg leucovorin as the calcium salt of N - [ 4 - [ [ ( 2 - amino - 5 - formyl - 1 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - hexahydro - 4 - oxo - 6 - pteridinyl ) methyl ] amino ] benzoyl ] - L - glutamic acid and the inactive ingredients Colloidal Silicon Dioxide , Croscarmellose Sodium , Magnesium Stearate , Microcrystalline Cellulose and Pregelatinized Starch .
This is equivalent to 5 . 4 mg , 10 . 8 mg , 16 . 21 mg or 27 . 01 mg of anhydrous leucovorin calcium .
Leucovorin is a water soluble form of reduced folate in the folate group ; it is useful as an antidote to drugs which act as folic acid antagonists .
These tablets are intended for oral administration only .
The structural formula of leucovorin calcium is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Leucovorin is a racemic mixture of the diastereoisomers of the 5 - formyl derivative of tetrahydrofolic acid .
The biologically active compound of the mixture is the ( - ) - L - isomer , known as Citrovorum factor , or ( - ) - folinic acid .
Leucovorin does not require reduction by the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in order to participate in reactions utilizing folates as a source of “ one - carbon ” moieties .
Following oral administration , leucovorin is rapidly absorbed and enters the general body pool of reduced folates .
The increase in plasma and serum folate activity ( determined microbiologically with Lactobacillus casei ) seen after oral administration of leucovorin is predominantly due to 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate .
Twenty normal men were given a single , oral 15 - mg dose ( 7 . 5 mg / m2 ) of leucovorin calcium and serum folate concentrations were assayed with L . casei .
Mean values observed ( ± one standard error ) were : a ) Time to peak serum folate concentration : 1 . 72 ± 0 . 08 hours , b ) Peak serum folate concentration achieved : 268 ± 18 ng / mL , c ) Serum folate half - disappearance time : 3 . 5 hours .
Oral tablets yielded areas under the serum folate concentration - time curves ( AUCs ) that were 12 % greater than equal amounts of leucovorin given intramuscularly and equal to the same amounts given intravenously .
Oral absorption of leucovorin is saturable at doses above 25 mg .
The apparent bioavailability of leucovorin was 97 % for 25 mg , 75 % for 50 mg and 37 % for 100 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Leucovorin Calcium Tablets are indicated to diminish the toxicity and counteract the effects of impaired methotrexate elimination and of inadvertent overdosages of folic acid antagonists .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Leucovorin is improper therapy for pernicious anemia and other megaloblastic anemias secondary to the lack of vitamin B12 .
A hematologic remission may occur while neurologic manifestations continue to progress .
WARNINGS In the treatment of accidental overdosage of folic acid antagonists , leucovorin should be administered as promptly as possible .
As the time interval between antifolate administration ( e . g . , methotrexate [ MTX ] ) and leucovorin rescue increases , leucovorin ’ s effectiveness in counteracting hematologic toxicity decreases .
Monitoring of the serum MTX concentration is essential in determining the optimal dose and duration of treatment with leucovorin .
Delayed MTX excretion may be caused by a third space fluid accumulation ( i . e . , ascites , pleural effusion ) , renal insufficiency , or inadequate hydration .
Under such circumstances , higher doses of leucovorin or prolonged administration may be indicated .
Doses higher than those recommended for oral use must be given intravenously .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil .
Deaths from severe enterocolitis , diarrhea , and dehydration have been reported in elderly patients receiving weekly leucovorin and fluorouracil . 1 Concomitant granulocytopenia and fever were present in some but not all of the patients .
The concomitant use of leucovorin with trimethoprim - sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection was associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo - controlled study .
PRECAUTIONS General Parenteral administration is preferable to oral dosing if there is a possibility that the patient may vomit or not absorb the leucovorin .
Leucovorin has no effect on other established toxicities of MTX , such as the nephrotoxicity resulting from drug and / or metabolite precipitation in the kidney .
Drug Interactions Folic acid in large amounts may counteract the antiepileptic effect of phenobarbital , phenytoin , and primidone , and increase the frequency of seizures in susceptible pediatric patients .
Preliminary animal and human studies have shown that small quantities of systemically administered leucovorin enter the CSF primarily as 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate and , in humans , remain one to three orders of magnitude lower than the usual MTX concentrations following intrathecal administration .
However , high doses of leucovorin may reduce the efficacy of intrathecally administered MTX .
Leucovorin may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil ( see WARNINGS ) .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with leucovorin .
It is also not known whether leucovorin can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Leucovorin should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when leucovorin is administered to a nursing mother .
Pediatric Use See Drug Interactions subsection .
ADVERSE REACTIONS CALL YOUR DOCTOR FOR MEDICAL ADVICE ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS .
YOU MAY REPORT SIDE EFFECTS TO THE FDA AT 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 OR LEADING PHARMA , LLC AT 1 - 844 - 740 - 7500 .
Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid .
OVERDOSAGE Excessive amounts of leucovorin may nullify the chemotherapeutic effect of folic acid antagonists .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Leucovorin calcium tablets are intended for oral administration .
Because absorption is saturable , oral administration of doses greater than 25 mg is not recommended .
Impaired Methotrexate Elimination or Inadvertent Overdosage Leucovorin rescue should begin as soon as possible after an inadvertent overdosage and within 24 hours of methotrexate administration when there is delayed excretion ( see WARNINGS ) .
Leucovorin 15 mg ( 10 mg / m2 ) should be administered I . M . , I . V . , or P . O . every 6 hours until the serum methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
In the presence of gastrointestinal toxicity , nausea , or vomiting , leucovorin should be administered parenterally .
Serum creatinine and methotrexate levels should be determined at 24 - hour intervals .
If the 24 - hour serum creatinine has increased 50 % over baseline or if the 24 - hour methotrexate level is greater than 5 x 10 - 6 M or the 48 - hour level is greater than 9 x 10 - 7 M , the dose of leucovorin should be increased to 150 mg ( 100 mg / m2 ) I . V . every 3 hours until the methotrexate level is less than 10 - 8 M .
Doses greater than 25 mg should be given parenterally ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY ) .
Hydration ( 3 L / d ) and urinary alkalinization with sodium bicarbonate should be employed concomitantly .
The bicarbonate dose should be adjusted to maintain the urine pH at 7 . 0 or greater .
The recommended dose of leucovorin to counteract hematologic toxicity from folic acid antagonists with less affinity for mammalian dihydrofolate reductase than methotrexate ( i . e . , trimethoprim , pyrimethamine ) is substantially less , and 5 to 15 mg of leucovorin per day has been recommended by some investigators .
Patients who experience delayed early methotrexate elimination are likely to develop reversible non - oliguric renal failure .
In addition to appropriate leucovorin therapy , these patients require continuing hydration and urinary alkalinization , and close monitoring of fluid and electrolyte status , until the serum methotrexate level has fallen below 0 . 05 micromolar and the renal failure has resolved .
Some patients will have abnormalities in methotrexate elimination or renal function following methotrexate administration , which are significant but less severe .
These abnormalities may or may not be associated with significant clinical toxicity .
If significant clinical toxicity is observed , leucovorin rescue should be extended for an additional 24 hours ( total 14 doses over 84 hours ) in subsequent courses of therapy .
The possibility that the patient is taking other medications which interact with methotrexate ( e . g . , medications which may interfere with methotrexate elimination or binding to serum albumin ) should always be reconsidered when laboratory abnormalities or clinical toxicities are observed .
HOW SUPPLIED Leucovorin Calcium Tablets USP 5 mg tablets are supplied as a white to off - white to pale yellow , round tablet ; scored on one side and " LP " over " 184 " debossed on the other side ; bottles of 30 ( NDC 69315 - 184 - 03 ) and 100 ( NDC 69315 - 184 - 01 ) .
10 mg tablets are supplied as a white to off - white to pale yellow , round tablet ; scored on one side and " LP " over " 185 " debossed on the other side ; bottles of 12 ( NDC 69315 - 185 - 12 ) and 24 ( NDC 69315 - 185 - 24 ) .
15 mg tablets are supplied as a white to off - white to pale yellow , round tablet ; scored on one side and " LP " over " 186 " debossed on the other side ; bottles of 24 ( NDC 69315 - 186 - 24 ) .
25 mg tablets are supplied as a white to off - white to pale yellow , round tablet ; scored on one side and " LP " over " 187 " debossed on the other side ; bottles of 25 ( NDC 69315 - 187 - 25 ) .
Store at 15 ° to 25 ° C ( 59 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Protect from light and moisture .
REFERENCES • Grem JL , Shoemaker DD , Petrelli NJ , Douglas HO Jr .
Severe and fatal toxic effects observed in treatment with high - and low - dose leucovorin plus 5 - fluorouracil for colorectal carcinoma .
Cancer Treat Rep . 1987 ; 71 : 1122 .
• Link MP , Goorin AM , Miser AW et al .
The effect of adjuvant chemotherapy on relapse - free survival in patients with osteosarcoma of the extremity .
N Engl J Med . 1986 ; 314 : 1600 - 1606 .
Rx only Manufactured and Distributed by : Leading Pharma , LLC Fairfield , NJ 07004 , USA Rev . 02 11 / 21 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
