Glytone HYDROQUINONE USP , 4 % Skin Lightening Gel Rx Only FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC USE I . DESCRIPTION Each gram of Glytone Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Lightening Gel contains 40 mg of Hydroquinone USP in a gel base of Purified Water , Propylene Glycol , Carbomer 940 , Sodium Bisulfite , Edetate Disodium , Sorbic Acid , and Glycerin .
The chemical name for hydroquinone is : 1 , 4 - benzenediol .
The molecular formula is C6H6O2 and molecular weight is 110 . 11 .
Hydroquinone has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] II .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Topical application of hydroquinone produces a reversible depigmentation of the skin by inhibition of the enzymatic oxidation of tyrosine to 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylalanine ( dopa ) and suppression of other melanocyte metabolic processes .
Exposure to sunlight or ultraviolet light will cause repigmentation of the treated areas .
III .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Glytone Skin Lightening Gel is indicated for the gradual lightening of hyperpigmented skin conditions such as chloasma , melasma , freckles , senile lentigines , and other unwanted areas of melanin hyperpigmentation .
IV .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Prior history of sensitivity or allergic reaction to this product or any of its ingredients .
The safety of topical hydroquinone use during pregnancy or in children ( 12 years and under ) has not been established .
V . WARNINGS A . Contains sodium bisulfite , a sulfite that may cause allergic - type reactions ( e . g . hives , itching , wheezing , anaphylaxis , severe asthma attack ) in certain susceptible persons .
The overall prevalence of sulfite sensitivity in the general population is unknown and probably low .
Sulfite sensitivity is seen more frequently in asthmatic than in nonasthmatic people .
B . May produce exogenous ochronosis , a gradual blue - black darkening of the skin , the occurrence of which should prompt discontinuation of treatment .
.
C .
There are no sunscreen agents in Glytone Skin Lightening Gel .
Since minimal sunlight exposure may reverse the lightening effect of this preparation , an effective broad spectrum sunscreen should be used during the day , and unnecessary sun exposure avoided , or sun - protective clothing should be worn to cover treated areas in order to prevent repigmentation from occurring .
For daytime lightening of unwanted hyperpigmented areas , Glytone SunVanish Skin Lightening Cream Broad Spectrum SPF 25 should be considered .
VI .
PRECAUTIONS See WARNINGS A . Test for skin sensitivity before using Glytone Skin Lightening Gel by applying a small amount to an unbroken patch of skin and check in 24 hours .
Minor redness is not a contraindication , but where there is itching or vesicle formation or excessive inflammatory response , further treatment is not advised .
Close patient supervision is recommended .
Hydroquinone is a skin lightening agent which may produce unwanted cosmetic effects if not used as directed .
The physician should be familiar with the contents of this insert before prescribing or dispensing this medication .
B . Avoid contact with eyes , nose , mouth , and lips .
In case of accidental contact , patient should rinse thoroughly with warm water and contact a physician .
C . Keep this and all medication out of the reach of children .
In case of accidental ingestion , call a physician or a poison control center immediately .
D . Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with topical hydroquinone .
It is also not known whether hydroquinone can cause fetal harm when used topically on a pregnant woman or affect reproductive capacity .
It is not known to what degree , if any , topical hydroquinone is absorbed systemically .
Topical hydroquinone should not be used in pregnant women .
E . Nursing mothers .
It is not known whether topical hydroquinone is absorbed or excreted in human milk .
This product is not recommended for use by nursing mothers .
F . Pediatric usage .
Safety and effectiveness in children below the age of 12 years have not been established .
Do not use on children under 12 years of age .
VII .
ADVERSE REACTIONS No systemic adverse reactions to hydroquinone have been reported .
Occasional hypersensitivity ( localized contact dermatitis ) may occur in which case the medication should be discontinued and the physician notified immediately .
Sensitivity to sodium bisulfite is a potential .
See WARNINGS .
VIII .
OVERDOSAGE There have been no systemic reactions from the use of topical hydroquinone .
However , treatment should be limited to relatively small areas of the body at one time since some patients experience a transient skin reddening and a mild burning sensation which does not preclude treatment , but indicates caution is warranted .
IX .
DRUG DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Glytone Skin Lightening Gel should be applied daily at night to affected areas and rubbed in well , or as directed by a physician .
If no lightening effect is seen after 2 months of treatment , use of this product should be discontinued .
During the day , avoid sunlight exposure to treated areas by using an effective broad spectrum sunscreen ( SPF 15 or higher ) or by wearing sun - protective clothing .
X . HOW SUPPLIED Glytone Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Lightening Gel is available as follows : Size NDC Number NET WT .
2 OZ .
/ 56 g tube 64760 - 202 - 02 Store at room temperature of 68 - 77 째 F ( 20 - 25 째 C ) .
Do not expose to heat above 86 째 F ( 30 째 C ) or direct sunlight .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Distributed by : Genesis Pharmaceutical , Inc .
Parsippany , NJ 07054 U . S . A . 1 - 800 - GLYTONE ( 459 - 8663 ) www . glytone - usa . com Rev . 112015 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 64760 - 202 - 02 GLYTONE Hydroquinone USP , 4 % Skin Lightening Gel Rx Only NET WT .
56 g / 2 OZ .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
