active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Purpose Sunscreen uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other skin protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun .
Warnings For external use only Do not use On damaged or broken skin When using this product • Keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
stop use and ask a doctor if rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • apply to all skin exposed to the sun • reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying ■ at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : ■ limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . ■ wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product in the container from excessive heat and direct sun inactive ingredients water , styrene / acrylates copolymer , silica , diethylhexyl 2 , 6 - naphthalate , beeswax , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , glycerin , caprylyl methicone , cetyl dimethicone , sodium polyacrylate , acrylates / C12 - 22 alkyl methacrylate copolymer , dimethicone , xanthan gum , pentylene glycol , trimethylsiloxysilicate , disodium EDTA , fragrance , BHT , benzyl alcohol , chlorphenesin This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & johnson ConsumerInc . , distributer of Neutrogena Ulta Sheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad SpectrumSPF 70 .
MAY STAIN OR DAMAGE SOME FABRICS OR SURFACES .
Distributed by : ADUSA Distribution , LLC Salisbury , NC 28147 1 - 833 - 922 - 3872 Quality Guaranteed or your money back .
Principal Display Panel CAREONE Compare to Neutrogena Ultra Sheer Dry Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 70 * Sheer Touch Sunscreen Lotion SPF 70 UVA / UVB Protection Water resistant ( 80 mins ) Clean & lightweight feel Qucikly absorbs Formulated without Oxybenzone & Octinoxate NET 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
