Active Ingredient Purpose Hydrocortisone Acetate 1 % Antipruritic ( anti - itch ) Warnings : For external use only Purpose Use : • For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis and for external genital , feminine , and anal itching .
Do not use : • in the eyes • for diaper rash • for external genital or feminine itching if you have a vaginal discharge • more than the recommended daily dosage unless directed by a doctor • this product in the rectum by using fingers or any mechanical device or applicator Stop use and ask a physician if : • condition worsens , or if symptoms persist for more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days , and do not use this or any other hydrocortisone product .
• in case of bleeding when used for anal itching Keep out of reach of children Keep out of reach of children .
• If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions : • Adults and children 2 years of age and older : Apply to affected area not more than 3 to 4 times daily .
Children under 2 years of age : consult a doctor .
• When used for anal itching , cleanse the affected area with mild soap and warm water and rinse thoroughly .
Gently dry , patting or blotting with bathroom tissue or soft cloth before applying .
Children under 12 : consult a doctor before using for anal itching .
Other information : • Store at room temperature • Avoid excessive heat Inactive ingredients : Cetomacrogol 1000 , Cetostearyl Alcohol , Chlorocresol , Liquid Paraffin , Propylene Glycol , Purified water , White Soft Paraffin .
For the temporary relief of itching associated with minor skin irritations , inflammation , and rashes due to eczema , insect bites , poison ivy , poison oak , poison sumac , soaps , detergents , cosmetics , jewelry , seborrheic dermatitis , psoriasis and for external genital , feminine , and anal itching .
Principal Display Panel 1137 Hydro Cort . jpg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
