[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] DESCRIPTION MYDRIACYL ® ( tropicamide ophthalmic solution , USP ) is an anticholinergic prepared as a sterile topical ophthalmic solution in two strengths .
The active ingredient is represented by the chemical structure : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL contains : Active : tropicamide 0 . 5 % or 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
pH range 4 . 0 - 5 . 8 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This anticholinergic preparation blocks the responses of the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle to cholinergic stimulation , dilating the pupil ( mydriasis ) .
The stronger preparation ( 1 % ) also paralyzes accommodation .
This preparation acts in 15 - 30 minutes , and the duration of activity is approximately 3 - 8 hours .
Complete recovery from mydriasis in some individuals may require 24 hours .
The weaker strength may be useful in producing mydriasis with only slight cycloplegia .
Heavily pigmented irides may require more doses than lightly pigmented irides .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE For mydriasis and cycloplegia for diagnostic procedures .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Contraindicated in persons showing hypersensitivity to any component of this preparation .
WARNINGS FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
NOT FOR INJECTION .
This preparation may cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
The possibility of psychotic reactions and behavioral disturbances due to hypersensitivity to anticholinergic drugs should be considered .
Mydriatics may produce a transient elevation of intraocular pressure .
Remove contact lenses before using .
PRECAUTIONS General The lacrimal sac should be compressed by digital pressure for two to three minutes after instillation to reduce excessive systemic absorption .
Information for Patients Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
Patient should be advised not to drive or engage in potentially hazardous activities while pupils are dilated .
Patient may experience sensitivity to light and should protect eyes in bright illumination during dilation .
Parents should be warned not to get this preparation in their child ' s mouth and to wash their own hands and the child ' s hands following administration .
Drug Interactions Tropicamide may interfere with the antihypertensive action of carbachol , pilocarpine , or ophthalmic cholinesterase inhibitors .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility There have been no long - term studies done using tropicamide in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Pregnancy Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with tropicamide .
It is also not known whether tropicamide can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Tropicamide should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when tropicamide is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Tropicamide may rarely cause CNS disturbances which may be dangerous in pediatric patients .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs ( See WARNINGS ) .
Keep this and all medications out of the reach of children .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Ocular : Transient stinging , blurred vision , photophobia and superficial punctuate keratitis have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Increased intraocular pressure has been reported following the use of mydriatics .
Non - Ocular : Dryness of the mouth , tachycardia , headache , allergic reactions , nausea , vomiting , pallor , central nervous system disturbances and muscle rigidity have been reported with the use of tropicamide .
Psychotic reactions , behavioral disturbances , and vasomotor or cardiorespiratory collapse in children have been reported with the use of anticholinergic drugs .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For refraction , instill one or two drops of 1 % solution in the eye ( s ) , repeated in five minutes .
If patient is not seen within 20 to 30 minutes , an additional drop may be instilled to prolong mydriatic effect .
For examination of fundus , instill one or two drops of 0 . 5 % solution 15 or 20 minutes prior to examination .
Individuals with heavily pigmented irides may require higher strength or more doses .
Mydriasis will reverse spontaneously with time , typically in 4 to 8 hours .
However , in some cases , complete recovery may take up to 24 hours .
HOW SUPPLIED 3 mL and 15 mL in plastic DROP - TAINER ® dispensers .
0 . 5 % - 15 mL : NDC 0998 - 0354 - 15 1 % - 3 mL : NDC 0065 - 0355 - 03 15 mL : NDC 0998 - 0355 - 15 STORAGE : Store at 8 ° - 27 ° C ( 46 ° - 80 ° F ) .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperatures .
Keep container tightly closed .
Rx Only © 2004 , 2018 Novartis Distributed by : ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas 76134 T2018 - 39 W9016532 US Revised : April 2018 Alcon ® a Novartis company PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 0998 - 0355 - 15 Alcon ® Mydriacyl ® 1 % ( tropicamide ophthalmic solution , USP ) 15 mL Sterile Rx Only A Sterile Anticholinergic Agent .
USUAL DOSAGE : One or two drops topically in the eye ( s ) .
Read enclosed insert .
PRECAUTION : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
INGREDIENTS : Each mL Contains : Active : tropicamide 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
pH range 4 . 0 - 5 . 8 .
© 2002 , 2010 Alcon , Inc .
Alcon ® ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas .
76134 USA Product of Japan 9016373 US STORAGE : Store at 8º - 27ºC ( 46º - 80ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperatures .
Keep container tightly closed .
FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY .
SN : LOT : EXP . : GTIN : 00309980355156 [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 0998 - 0355 - 15 Alcon ® Mydriacyl ® 1 % ( tropicamide ophthalmic solution , USP ) Sterile 15 mL Rx Only FOR TOPICAL OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY A Sterile Anticholinergic Agent .
INGREDIENTS : Each mL Contains : Active : tropicamide 1 % .
Preservative : benzalkonium chloride 0 . 01 % .
Inactives : sodium chloride , edetate disodium , hydrochloric acid and / or sodium hydroxide ( to adjust pH ) , purified water .
pH range 4 . 0 - 5 . 8 .
USUAL DOSAGE : One or two drops topically in the eye ( s ) .
Read enclosed insert .
PRECAUTION : Do not touch dropper tip to any surface , as this may contaminate the solution .
STORAGE : Store at 8º - 27ºC ( 46º - 80ºF ) .
Do not refrigerate or store at high temperatures .
Keep container tightly closed .
ALCON LABORATORIES , INC .
Fort Worth , Texas .
76134 USA Printed in USA © 2002 , 2004 Alcon Laboratories , Inc .
H15341 US LOT : EXP . : [ MULTIMEDIA ]
