1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Indomethacin for Injection is indicated to close a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus in premature infants weighing between 500 and 1 , 750 g when 48 hours usual medical management ( e . g . , fluid restriction , diuretics , digitalis , respiratory support , etc . ) is ineffective .
Clear - cut clinical evidence of a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus should be present , such as respiratory distress , a continuous murmur , a hyperactive precordium , cardiomegaly , or pulmonary plethora on chest x - ray .
Indomethacin for Injection is a cardiovascular drug indicated : • To close a hemodynamically significant patent ductus arteriosus in premature infants weighing between 500 and 1 , 750 g . ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For intravenous administration only .
Dosage recommendations for closure of the ductus arteriosus depend on the age of the infant at the time of therapy .
A course of therapy is defined as three intravenous doses of Indomethacin for Injection given at 12 to 24 hour intervals , with careful attention to urinary output .
If anuria or marked oliguria ( urinary output < 0 . 6 mL / kg / hr ) is evident at the scheduled time of the second or third dose of Indomethacin for Injection , do not give additional doses until laboratory studies indicate that renal function has returned to normal [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 7 ) ] .
Dosage according to age is as follows : AGE at 1 st dose DOSAGE ( mg / kg ) Less than 48 hours 1 st 0 . 2 2 nd 0 . 1 3 rd 0 . 1 2 to 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 Over 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 25 0 . 25 If the ductus arteriosus closes or is significantly reduced in size after an interval of 48 hours or more from completion of the first course of Indomethacin for Injection , no further doses are necessary .
If the ductus arteriosus re - opens , a second course of 1 to 3 doses may be given , each dose separated by a 12 to 24 hour interval as described above .
If the neonate remains unresponsive to therapy with Indomethacin for Injection after 2 courses , surgery may be necessary for closure of the ductus arteriosus .
• Dosage is dependent on the age of the infant at time of therapy .
A course of therapy requires intravenous doses of Indomethacin for Injection given at 12 to 24 hour intervals .
AGE at 1 st dose DOSAGE ( mg / kg ) Less than 48 hours 1 st 0 . 2 2 nd 0 . 1 3 rd 0 . 1 2 to 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 2 0 . 2 Over 7 days 0 . 2 0 . 25 0 . 25 • If anuria or marked oliguria ( urinary output < 0 . 6 mL / kg / hr ) is evident at the scheduled time of the second or third dose of Indomethacin for Injection , do not give additional doses until laboratory studies indicate that renal function has returned to normal • If the ductus arteriosus closes or is significantly reduced in size after an interval of 48 hours or more from completion of the first course of Indomethacin for Injection , no further doses are necessary • If the neonate remains unresponsive to therapy with Indomethacin for Injection after 2 courses , surgery may be necessary for closure of the ductus arteriosus .
( 2 . 1 ) 2 . 1 Directions for Use Parenteral drug products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration whenever solution and container permit .
The reconstituted solution , pH 6 . 0 to 7 . 5 , is clear , slightly yellow and essentially free from visible particles .
Prepare the solution with 1 to 2 mL of preservative - free Sterile Sodium Chloride Injection , 0 . 9 percent or preservative - free Sterile Water for Injection .
Benzyl alcohol as a preservative has been associated with toxicity in neonates .
Therefore , do not use diluents that contain preservatives .
If 1 mL of diluent is used , the concentration of indomethacin in the solution will equal approximately 0 . 1 mg / 0 . 1 mL ; if 2 mL of diluent are used , the concentration of the solution will equal approximately 0 . 05 mg / 0 . 1 mL .
Discard any unused portion of the solution as it does not contain a preservative .
Prepare a fresh solution just prior to each administration .
Once reconstituted , the indomethacin solution may be injected intravenously .
While the optimal rate of injection has not been established , published literature suggests an infusion rate over 20 to 30 minutes .
Further dilution with intravenous infusion solutions is not recommended .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Indomethacin for Injection is supplied in single dose vials containing 1 mg of indomethacin as a sterile lyophilized powder or plug for reconstitution .
• Single dose vials of 1 mg indomethacin as a sterile , lyophilized powder or plug for reconstitution .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Indomethacin for Injection is contraindicated in neonates : • With proven or suspected infection that is untreated • Who are bleeding , especially those with active intracranial hemorrhage or gastrointestinal bleeding • With thrombocytopenia or coagulation defects • With or who are suspected of having necrotizing enterocolitis • With significant impairment of renal function • With congenital heart disease in whom patency of the ductus arteriosus is necessary for satisfactory pulmonary or systemic blood flow ( e . g . , pulmonary atresia , severe tetralogy of Fallot , severe coarctation of the aorta ) .
Indomethacin for Injection is contraindicated in neonates : • With proven or suspected infection that is untreated • Who are bleeding , especially those with active intracranial hemorrhage or gastrointestinal bleeding • With thrombocytopenia or coagulation defects • Suspected of having necrotizing enterocolitis • With significant impairment of renal function • With congenital heart disease in whom patency of the ductus arteriosus is necessary for satisfactory pulmonary or systemic blood flow .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Indomethacin may mask the usual signs of infection .
( 5 . 1 ) • Monitor for signs of hepatic reactions .
Indomethacin for Injection may need to be discontinued .
( 5 . 2 ) • Indomethacin for Injection may inhibit platelet aggregation .
( 5 . 3 ) • Gastrointestinal Effects : Monitor neonates for blood in stool .
( 5 . 4 ) • Central Nervous System Effects : Monitor neonates for intraventricular hemorrhage .
( 5 . 5 ) • Renal Effects : Monitor renal function and serum electrolytes .
( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Infection Indomethacin may mask the usual signs and symptoms of infection .
Therefore , the physician must be continually on the alert for this and should use the drug with extra care in the presence of existing controlled infection .
5 . 2 Hepatic Reactions Severe hepatic reactions have been reported in adults treated chronically with oral indomethacin for arthritic disorders .
[ For further information , see package insert for oral indomethacin ] .
If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop in the neonate , or if systemic manifestations occur , discontinue Indomethacin for Injection .
5 . 3 Platelet Aggregation Indomethacin for Injection may inhibit platelet aggregation .
In one small study , platelet aggregation was grossly abnormal after indomethacin therapy ( given orally to premature infants to close the ductus arteriosus ) .
Platelet aggregation returned to normal by the tenth day .
Observe premature infants for signs of bleeding .
5 . 4 Gastrointestinal Effects In the collaborative study , major gastrointestinal bleeding was no more common in neonates receiving indomethacin than in neonates on placebo .
However , minor gastrointestinal bleeding ( i . e . , chemical detection of blood in the stool ) was more commonly noted in neonates treated with indomethacin .
Severe gastrointestinal effects have been reported in adults with various arthritic disorders treated chronically with oral indomethacin .
[ For further information , see package insert for oral indomethacin ] .
5 . 5 Central Nervous System Effects Prematurity per se is associated with an increased incidence of spontaneous intraventricular hemorrhage .
Because indomethacin may inhibit platelet aggregation , the potential for intraventricular bleeding may be increased .
However , in the large multicenter study of Indomethacin for Injection , the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage in neonates treated with Indomethacin for Injection was not significantly higher than in the control neonates .
5 . 6 Renal Effects Indomethacin for Injection may cause significant reduction in urine output ( 50 percent or more ) with concomitant elevations of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine , and reductions in glomerular filtration rate and creatinine clearance .
These effects in most neonates are transient , disappearing with cessation of therapy with Indomethacin for Injection .
However , because adequate renal function can depend upon renal prostaglandin synthesis , Indomethacin for Injection may precipitate renal insufficiency , including acute renal failure , especially in neonates with other conditions that may adversely affect renal function ( e . g . , extracellular volume depletion from any cause , congestive heart failure , sepsis , concomitant use of any nephrotoxic drug , hepatic dysfunction ) .
When significant suppression of urine volume occurs after a dose of Indomethacin for Injection , do not give additional doses until urine output returns to normal levels .
Indomethacin for Injection in pre - term infants may suppress water excretion to a greater extent than sodium excretion .
When this occurs , a significant reduction in serum sodium values ( i . e . , hyponatremia ) may result .
Monitor renal function and serum electrolyte levels during therapy with Indomethacin for Injection [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 ) ] .
5 . 7 Administration Administer Indomethacin for Injection carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage as the solution may be irritating to tissue .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions are bleeding problems , higher incidence of transient oliguria and elevations of serum creatinine .
( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Fresenius Kabi USA , LLC at 1 - 800 - 551 - 7176 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience In a double - blind , placebo - controlled trial of 405 premature infants weighing less than or equal to 1 , 750 g with evidence of large ductal shunting , in those neonates treated with indomethacin ( n = 206 ) , there was a statistically significantly greater incidence of bleeding problems , including gross or microscopic bleeding into the gastrointestinal tract , oozing from the skin after needle stick , pulmonary hemorrhage , and disseminated intravascular coagulopathy .
There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups in intracranial hemorrhage .
The neonates treated with Indomethacin for Injection had a significantly higher incidence of transient oliguria and elevations of serum creatinine ( greater than or equal to 1 . 8 mg / dL ) than did the neonates treated with placebo .
The incidences of retrolental fibroplasia ( grades III and IV ) and pneumothorax in neonates treated with Indomethacin for Injection were no greater than in placebo controls and were statistically significantly lower than in surgically - treated neonates .
The following additional adverse reactions in neonates have been reported from the collaborative study , anecdotal case reports , from other studies using rectal , oral , or intravenous indomethacin for treatment of patent ductus arteriosus or in marketed use .
The rates are calculated from a database that contains experience of 849 indomethacin - treated neonates reported in the medical literature , regardless of the route of administration .
One year follow - up is available on 175 neonates and shows no long - term sequelae that could be attributed to indomethacin .
In controlled clinical studies , only electrolyte imbalance and renal dysfunction ( of the reactions listed below ) occurred statistically significantly more frequently after Indomethacin for Injection than after placebo .
Reactions marked with a single asterisk ( * ) occurred in 3 to 9 percent of indomethacin - treated neonates ; those marked with a double asterisk ( ** ) occurred in 3 to 9 percent of both indomethacin - and placebo - treated neonates .
Unmarked reactions occurred in less than 3 percent of neonates .
Renal : renal failure , renal dysfunction in 41 percent of neonates , including one or more of the following : reduced urinary output ; reduced urine sodium , chloride , or potassium , urine osmolality , free water clearance , or glomerular filtration rate ; elevated serum creatinine or BUN ; uremia .
Cardiovascular : intracranial bleeding ** , pulmonary hypertension .
Gastrointestinal : gastrointestinal bleeding * , vomiting , abdominal distention , transient ileus , gastric perforation , localized perforation ( s ) of the small and / or large intestine , necrotizing enterocolitis .
Metabolic : hyponatremia * , elevated serum potassium * , reduction in blood sugar , including hypoglycemia , increased weight gain ( fluid retention ) .
Coagulation : decreased platelet aggregation [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
The following adverse reactions have also been reported in neonates treated with indomethacin , however , a causal relationship to therapy with Indomethacin for Injection has not been established : Cardiovascular : bradycardia .
Respiratory : apnea , exacerbation of pre - existing pulmonary infection .
Metabolic : acidosis / alkalosis .
Hematologic : disseminated intravascular coagulation , thrombocytopenia .
Ophthalmic : retrolental fibroplasia .
** A variety of additional adverse experiences have been reported in adults treated with oral indomethacin for moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis , osteoarthritis , ankylosing spondylitis , acute painful shoulder and acute gouty arthritis ( see package insert for oral indomethacin for additional information concerning adverse reactions and other cautionary statements ) .
Their relevance to the pre - term infant receiving indomethacin for patent ductus arteriosus is unknown , however , the possibility exists that these experiences may be associated with the use of Indomethacin for Injection in pre - term infants .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS As renal function may be reduced by Indomethacin for Injection , consider reducing the dosage of those medications that rely on adequate renal function for their elimination .
• When used concomitantly with digoxin , monitor neonates for the development of digoxin toxicity .
( 7 . 1 ) • Monitor prothrombin time when indomethacin is added to anticoagulants .
( 7 . 2 ) 7 . 1 Digoxin Because the half - life of digoxin ( given frequently to pre - term infants with patent ductus arteriosus and associated cardiac failure ) may be prolonged when given concomitantly with indomethacin , observe neonates receiving concomitant digoxin closely ; frequent ECGs and serum digoxin levels may be required to prevent or detect digoxin toxicity early .
7 . 2 Anticoagulants Indomethacin usually does not influence the hypoprothrombinemia produced by anticoagulants .
When indomethacin is added to anticoagulants , monitor prothrombin time closely .
In post - marketing experience , bleeding has been reported in patients on concomitant treatment with anticoagulants and Indomethacin for Injection .
7 . 3 Furosemide Therapy with indomethacin may blunt the natriuretic effect of furosemide .
This response has been attributed to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
In a study of 19 premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus treated with either Indomethacin for Injection alone or a combination of Indomethacin for Injection and furosemide , results showed that neonates receiving both Indomethacin for Injection and furosemide had significantly higher urinary output , higher levels of sodium and chloride excretion , and higher glomerular filtration rates than did those receiving Indomethacin for Injection alone .
In this study , therapy with furosemide helped to maintain renal function in the premature infant when Indomethacin for Injection was added .
7 . 4 Aminoglycosides In one study of premature infants treated with Indomethacin for Injection and also receiving either gentamicin or amikacin , both peak and trough levels of these aminoglycosides were significantly elevated .
7 . 5 Drugs that Act on the Renin - Angiotensin System In some patients with compromised renal function , the co - administration of an NSAID and an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin II antagonist may result in further deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure , which is usually reversible .
11 DESCRIPTION Sterile Indomethacin for Injection for intravenous administration is lyophilized indomethacin for injection .
Each vial of indomethacin for injection contains 1 mg indomethacin ; 0 . 29 mg monobasic sodium phosphate , 0 . 41 mg dibasic sodium phosphate and not more than 0 . 24 mg of sodium hydroxide ( used for converting indomethacin base to the sodium salt ) as a white to yellow lyophilized powder or plug .
Variations in the size of the lyophilized plug and the intensity of color have no relationship to the quality or amount of indomethacin present in the vial .
The reconstituted solution , pH 6 . 0 to 7 . 5 , is clear , slightly yellow and essentially free from visible particles .
The pH of the product does not meet the USP monograph [ FD & C Act Chapter V , SEC .
501 .
[ 21 USC § 351 ] ( b ) ] .
Indomethacin is designated chemically as 1 - ( 4 - chlorobenzoyl ) - 5 - methoxy - 2 - methyl - 1 H - indole - 3 - acetic acid .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C19H16ClNO4 M . W . 357 . 8 [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Although the exact mechanism of action through which indomethacin causes closure of a patent ductus arteriosus is not known , it is believed to be through inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Indomethacin has been shown to be a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis , both in vitro and in vivo .
In human newborns with certain congenital heart malformations , PGE 1 dilates the ductus arteriosus .
In fetal and newborn lambs , E type prostaglandins have also been shown to maintain the patency of the ductus , and as in human newborns , indomethacin causes its constriction .
Studies in healthy young animals and in premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus indicated that , after the first dose of intravenous indomethacin , there was a transient reduction in cerebral blood flow velocity and cerebral blood flow .
Similar decreases in mesenteric blood flow and velocity have been observed .
The clinical significance of these effects has not been established .
In double - blind , placebo - controlled studies of Indomethacin for Injection in 460 small pre - term infants , weighing 1 , 750 g or less , the neonates treated with placebo had a ductus closure rate after 48 hours of 25 to 30 percent , whereas those treated with Indomethacin for Injection had a 75 to 80 percent closure rate .
In one of these studies , a multicenter study , involving 405 pre - term infants , later reopening of the ductus arteriosus occurred in 26 percent of neonates treated with Indomethacin for Injection however , 70 percent of these closed subsequently without the need for surgery or additional indomethacin .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics The disposition of indomethacin following intravenous administration ( 0 . 2 mg / kg ) in pre - term neonates with patent ductus arteriosus has not been extensively evaluated .
Even though the plasma half - life of indomethacin was variable among premature infants , it was shown to vary inversely with postnatal age and weight .
In one study , of 28 neonates who could be evaluated , the plasma half - life in those less than 7 days old averaged 20 hours ( range : 3 to 60 hours , n = 18 ) .
In neonates older than 7 days , the mean plasma half - life of indomethacin was 12 hours ( range : 4 to 38 hours , n = 10 ) .
Grouping the neonates by weight , mean plasma half - life in those weighing less than 1 , 000 g was 21 hours ( range : 9 to 60 hours , n = 10 ) ; in those neonates weighing more than 1 , 000 g , the mean plasma half - life was 15 hours ( range : 3 to 52 hours , n = 18 ) .
Following intravenous administration in adults , indomethacin is eliminated via renal excretion , metabolism , and biliary excretion .
Indomethacin undergoes appreciable enterohepatic circulation .
The mean plasma half - life of indomethacin is 4 . 5 hours .
In the absence of enterohepatic circulation , it is 90 minutes .
Indomethacin has been found to cross the blood - brain barrier and the placenta .
In adults , about 99 percent of indomethacin is bound to protein in plasma over the expected range of therapeutic plasma concentrations .
The percent bound in neonates has not been studied .
In controlled trials in premature infants , however , no evidence of bilirubin displacement has been observed as evidenced by increased incidence of bilirubin encephalopathy ( kernicterus ) .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY In rats and mice , oral indomethacin 4 mg / kg / day given during the last three days of gestation caused a decrease in maternal weight gain and some maternal and fetal deaths .
An increased incidence of neuronal necrosis in the diencephalon in the live - born fetuses was observed .
At 2 mg / kg / day , no increase in neuronal necrosis was observed as compared to the control groups .
Administration of 0 . 5 or 4 mg / kg / day during the first three days of life did not cause an increase in neuronal necrosis at either dose level .
Pregnant rats , given 2 mg / kg / day and 4 mg / kg / day during the last trimester of gestation , delivered offspring whose pulmonary blood vessels were both reduced in number and excessively muscularized .
These findings are similar to those observed in the syndrome of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the neonate .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Sterile Indomethacin for Injection is a lyophilized white to yellow powder or plug supplied as single dose vials containing indomethacin for injection , equivalent to 1 mg indomethacin .
Product No .
NDC No .
PRX605903 63323 - 659 - 94 Packaged individually .
The container closure is not made with natural rubber latex .
16 . 2 Storage Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) with excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) .
Protect from light .
Store container in carton until contents have been used .
PREMIERProRx ® is a registered trademark of Premier Healthcare Alliance , L . P . , used under license .
Manufactured by : Fresenius Kabi Lake Zurich , IL 60047 www . fresenius - kabi . us 451344 A Revised : March 2017 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Indomethacin for Injection 1 mg Vial Label Indomethacin for Injection 1 mg per vial FOR THE PREPARATION OF INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS Sterile Rx only Single Dose Vial - Discard unused portion [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY - Indomethacin for Injection 1 mg Carton Panel Indomethacin for Injection 1 mg per vial For Intravenous Use Only FOR THE PREPARATION OF INTRAVENOUS SOLUTIONS Rx only One vial Single Dose Vial - Discard any unused portion immediately .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
