Drug Facts Active Ingrdient Glycerin 2 . 00 % Arbutin 2 . 00 % Purpose Skin Protectant Keep out of Reach of Children Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Posion Control Center right away .
Indication & Usage Directions ■ Pour some on the palm of your hand and apply to skin gently .
■ Take appropriate amount according to your skin condition and apply every morning and night .
■ Gently tap the skin with fingers for complete absorption .
■ Clean the skin before use .
■ For the best results , use with Suyan Cheongyu ( Emulsion ) and Suyan Jeongbaek ( Cream ) .
■ Children under 6 months : ask a doctor .
Warnings Warnings For external use only Do not use on wounds or if you are allergic to any ingredients of this product .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Dosage & Administration ■ To be used for your basic skin care and gives a benefit for brightening care .
■ Helps prevent and protect from the drying effects of wind and cold weather .
■ Temporarily protects and helps relieve chapped or cracked skin .
Inactive Ingredient Water , Alcohol , Betaine , Butylene Glycol , Portulaca Oleracea Extract , Niacinamide , Polyglutamic Acid , Polyquaternium - 51 , Beta - Glucan , Citrus Grandis ( Grapefruit ) Peel Extract , Diethoxyethyl Succinate , Phenoxyethanol , Ammonium Acryloyldimethyltaurate / VP Copolymer , Methylparaben , Angelica Dahurica Root Extract , Bletilla Striata Root Extract , Eugenia Caryophyllus ( Clove ) Flower Extract , Ipomoea Purpurea Extract , Phaseolus Radiatus Seed Extract , Poria Cocos Extract , Silkworm Extract , Tribulus Terrestris Fruit Extract , Coceth - 7 , Propylene Glycol , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , PPG - 1 - PEG - 9 Lauryl Glycol Ether , Azelamide Mea , Panthenol , Hydrogenated Lecithin , Xanthan Gum , Raffinose , Sodium Metabisulfite , Disodium EDTA , Cholesterol , Sodium Hyaluronate , Ceramide 3 , Hydrolyzed Lupine Protein , Hydrolyzed Yeast , Triethanolamine , Glycine Soja ( Soybean ) Protein , Hydrolyzed Rice Bran Protein , Oxido Reductases SUYAN CHUNGSOO SUYAN CHEONGSOO Net WT .
4 . 40 FL OZ ( 130 ml ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
