DESCRIPTION Donnatal ® Elixir - Mint : Each 5 mL ( teaspoonful ) of elixir ( alcohol not more than 23 . 8 % ) contains : Phenobarbital , USP .............................. 16 . 2 mg Hyoscyamine Sulfate , USP ............... 0 . 1037 mg Atropine Sulfate , USP ....................... 0 . 0194 mg Scopolamine Hydrobromide , USP .... 0 . 0065 mg INACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Ethyl Alcohol , Glycerin , Purified Water , Saccharin Sodium , Sorbitol , Sucrose , Natural Mint Flavor , FD & C Yellow # 5 , FD & C Blue # 1 and FD & C Red # 40 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY This drug combination provides natural belladonna alkaloids in a specific , fixed ratio combined with phenobarbital to provide peripheral anticholinergic / antispasmodic action and mild sedation .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Based on a review of this drug by the National Academy of Sciences - National Research Council and / or other information , FDA has classified the following indications as “ possibly ” effective : For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome ( irritable colon , spastic colon , mucous colitis ) and acute enterocolitis .
May also be useful as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of duodenal ulcer .
IT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN CONCLUSIVELY WHETHER ANTICHOLINERGIC / ANTISPASMODIC DRUGS AID IN THE HEALING OF A DUODENAL ULCER , DECREASE THE RATE OF RECURRENCES OR PREVENT COMPLICATIONS .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Glaucoma , obstructive uropathy ( for example , bladder neck obstruction due to prostatic hypertrophy ) ; obstructive disease of the gastrointestinal tract ( as in achalasia , pyloroduodenal stenosis , etc . ) ; paralytic ileus , intestinal atony of the elderly or debilitated patient ; unstable cardiovascular status in acute hemorrhage ; severe ulcerative colitis especially if complicated by toxic megacolon ; myasthenia gravis ; hiatal hernia associated with reflux esophagitis .
Donnatal ® Elixir is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients .
Phenobarbital is contraindicated in acute intermittent porphyria and in those patients in whom Phenobarbital produces restlessness and / or excitement .
WARNINGS In the presence of a high environmental temperature , heat prostration can occur with belladonna alkaloids ( fever and heatstroke due to decreased sweating ) .
Diarrhea may be an early symptom of incomplete intestinal obstruction , especially in patients with ileostomy or colostomy .
In this instance , treatment with this drug would be inappropriate and possibly harmful .
Donnatal ® Elixir may produce drowsiness or blurred vision .
The patient should be warned , should these occur , not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness , such as operating a motor vehicle or other machinery , and not to perform hazardous work .
Phenobarbital may decrease the effect of anticoagulants , and necessitate larger doses of the anticoagulant for optimal effect .
When the phenobarbital is discontinued , the dose of the anticoagulant may have to be decreased .
Phenobarbital may be habit forming and should not be administered to individuals known to be addiction prone or to those with a history of physical and / or psychological dependence upon drugs .
Since barbiturates are metabolized in the liver , they should be used with caution and initial doses should be small in patients with hepatic dysfunction .
PRECAUTIONS GENERAL Use with caution in patients with : autonomic neuropathy , hepatic or renal disease , hyperthyroidism , coronary heart disease , congestive heart failure , cardiac arrhythmias , tachycardia , and hypertension .
Belladonna alkaloids may produce a delay in gastric emptying ( antral stasis ) which would complicate the management of gastric ulcer .
Do not rely on the use of the drug in the presence of complication of biliary tract disease .
Theoretically , with overdosage , a curare - like action may occur .
CARCINOGENESIS , MUTAGENESIS , IMPAIRMENT OF FERTILITY : Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY PREGNANCY CATEGORY C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Donnatal ® Elixir .
It is not known whether Donnatal ® Elixir can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Donnatal ® Elixir should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS .
It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when Donnatal ® Elixir is administered to a nursing woman .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may include xerostomia ; urinary hesitancy and retention ; blurred vision ; tachycardia ; palpitation ; mydriasis ; cycloplegia ; increased ocular tension ; loss of taste sense ; headache ; nervousness ; drowsiness ; weakness ; dizziness ; insomnia ; nausea ; vomiting ; impotence ; suppression of lactation ; constipation ; bloated feeling ; musculoskeletal pain ; severe allergic reaction or drug idiosyncrasies , including anaphylaxis , urticaria and other dermal manifestations ; and decreased sweating .
Elderly patients may react with symptoms of excitement , agitation , drowsiness , and other untoward manifestations to even small doses of the drug .
Phenobarbital may produce excitement in some patients , rather than a sedative effect .
In patients habituated to barbiturates , abrupt withdrawal may produce delirium or convulsions .
OVERDOSAGE The signs and symptoms of overdose are headache , nausea , vomiting , blurred vision , dilated pupils , hot and dry skin , dizziness , dryness of the mouth , difficulty in swallowing , and CNS stimulation .
Treatment should consist of gastric lavage , emetics , and activated charcoal .
If indicated , parenteral cholinergic agents such as physostigmine or bethanechol chloride , should be used .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The dosage of Donnatal ® Elixir should be adjusted to the needs of the individual patient to assure symptomatic control with a minimum of adverse effects .
Donnatal ® Elixir .
Adults : One or two teaspoonfuls of elixir three or four times a day according to conditions and severity of symptoms .
Pediatric patients : may be dosed every 4 to 6 hours .
Starting dosage Body weight q4h q6h 10 lb .
( 4 . 5 kg ) 0 . 5 mL 0 . 75 mL 20 lb .
( 9 . 1 kg ) 1 . 0 mL 1 . 5 mL 30 lb .
( 13 . 6 kg ) 1 . 5 mL 2 . 0 mL 50 lb .
( 22 . 7 kg ) ½ tsp ¾ tsp 75 lb .
( 34 kg ) ¾ tsp 1 tsp 100 lb .
( 45 . 4 kg ) 1 tsp 1 ½ tsp STORAGE CONDITIONS Donnatal ® Elixir - Grape is a purple colored , grape flavored liquid .
4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) bottles NDC 66213 - 423 - 04 .
1 Pint ( 473 mL ) bottles NDC 66213 - 423 - 16 .
Donnatal ® Elixir - Mint is a green colored , mint flavored liquid .
4 fl oz ( 118 mL ) bottles NDC 66213 - 422 - 04 .
1 Pint ( 473 mL ) bottles NDC 66213 - 422 - 16 .
AVOID FREEZING Store Donnatal ® Elixir at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Use safety closures when dispensing this product unless otherwise directed by a physician or requested by purchaser .
Example label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
