Active ingredients Avobenzone 3 % Homosalate 15 % Octisalate 5 % Octocrylene 10 % Oxybenzone 6 % purpose Sunscreen Uses • helps prevent sunburn • if used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the rish of skin cancer and early skin aging caused by the sun Warnings For external use only Do not use • on damaged or broken skin When using this product • keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove Stop use and ask a doctor if • rash occurs Keep out of reach of children If swallowed , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away .
Directions • apply liberally 15 minutes before sun exposure • reapply : ■ after 80 minutes of swimming or sweating ■ immediately after towel drying • at least every 2 hours • Sun Protection Measures .
Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats and sunglasses • children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor Other information • protect the product from excessive heat and direct sun Inactive ingredients water , styrene / acrylates copolymer , silica , glyceryl stearate , PEG - 100 stearate , cyclopentasiloxane , beeswax , acrylates / dimethicone copolymer , acrylates / C10 - 30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer , fragrance , chlorphenesin , triethanolamine , benzyl alcohol , dipotassium glycyrrhizate , disodium EDTA , BHT May stain or damage some fabrics or surfaces This product is not manufactured or distributed by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc . distributor of Neutrogena UltraSheer Dry - Touch Sunscreen Broad Spectrum SPF 100 Made in the USA with US and foreign parts Manufactured by : Vi - Jon , Inc . , St . Louis , MO 63114 Questions or Comments ?
1 - 888 - 593 - 0593 www . mymountainfalls . com Principal display panel mountain falls Compare to Neutrogena paraben free SPF 100 water resistant 80 minutes light - weight sheer touch sunscreen BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 100 UVA / UVB SUNSCREEN 3 FL OZ ( 88 mL ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
