ACTIVE INGREDIENT Active Ingredient : Alcohol 1 % INACTIVE INGREDIENT Inactive ingredients : Water , Rosa Centifolia Flower Water , Hamamelis Virginiana ( Witch Hazel ) Extract , Hydroxyethylcellulose , Triethanolamine , Lactic Acid , Lavandula Angustifolia ( Lavender ) Extract , Rosmarinus Officinalis ( Rosemary ) Extract , Origanum Vulgare Flower / Leaf / Stem Extract , Thymus Vulgaris ( Thyme ) Extract , Punica Granatum Fruit Extract , Ficus Carica ( Fig ) Fruit Extract , Morus Alba Fruit Extract , Ginkgo Biloba Nut Extract , Lactobacillus / Leuconostoc / Saccharomyces Abalone Ferment Extract Filtrate , Butylene Glycol , PEG - 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil , Caprylyl Glycol , Ethylhexylglycerin , Menthol , Pyridoxine HCl , Ascorbic Acid , Fragrance PURPOSE Purpose : Antifungal Precautions for use Precautions for use : 1 .
If any of the following abnormalities is caused by the use of this product , stop the use , and consult a dermatologist lest the symptom worsen .
a ) In case of a rash , a swelling , itching , or irritation in the course of using the product .
b ) In case that any of the above mentioned symptoms occurs to a spot of application exposed to direct rays .
2 .
Do not apply the product to a wounded area or a part affected by eczema or dermatitis .
3 .
Precautions for storage and handling a ) Keep this product out of reach of infants and young children .
b ) After use , be sure to replace the cap .
c ) Do not store it in a place of high or low temperature , or a place exposed to direct rays .
4 .
Pudenda cleanser a ) Use it for the pudenda only .
b ) Do not use it for a long term .
c ) Be careful , if there is an affected part or its surrounding area is contaminated by it .
d ) Do not use it for children under 3 .
e ) It is desirable not to use it during pregnancy .
And do not apply it to an area surrounding the pudenda just before delivery .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN Keep this product out of reach of infants and young children .
Usage Usage : Get the pudenda wet evenly with water .
And massage it with a suitable amount ( 2 - 3 g ) of the cleanser , and then rinse it with clean water .
Usage Usage : Get the pudenda wet evenly with water .
And massage it with a suitable amount ( 2 - 3 g ) of the cleanser , and then rinse it with clean water .
PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
