DESCRIPTION Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride , USP is a white to off - white , odorless , crystalline powder with the molecular formula C20H21N • HCl and a molecular weight of 311 . 85 .
It has a melting point between 215 ° C to 219 ° C and a pKa of 8 . 47 .
It is freely soluble in water , in alcohol , and in methanol , sparingly soluble in isopropanol , slightly soluble in chloroform and in methylene chloride , insoluble in n - Hexane .
Cyclobenzaprine HCl , USP is designated chemically as 3 - ( 5 H - Dibenzo [ a , d ] cyclohepten - 5 ylidene ) - N , N - dimethyl - 1 - propanamine hydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride USP , 5 mg is supplied as a 5 mg tablet for oral administration .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride USP , 7 . 5 mg is supplied as a 7 . 5 mg tablet for oral administration .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride USP , 10 mg is supplied as a 10 mg tablet for oral administration .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP 5 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide and triacetin .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP 7 . 5 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide , triacetin and yellow iron oxide .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP 10 mg contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , croscarmellose sodium , FD & C Blue No . 2 Aluminium Lake , hypromellose , hydroxypropyl cellulose , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , talc , titanium dioxide , triacetin and yellow iron oxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Cyclobenzaprine HCl relieves skeletal muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
It is ineffective in muscle spasm due to central nervous system disease .
Cyclobenzaprine reduced or abolished skeletal muscle hyperactivity in several animal models .
Animal studies indicate that cyclobenzaprine does not act at the neuromuscular junction or directly on skeletal muscle .
Such studies show that cyclobenzaprine acts primarily within the central nervous system at brain stem as opposed to spinal cord levels , although its action on the latter may contribute to its overall skeletal muscle relaxant activity .
Evidence suggests that the net effect of cyclobenzaprine is a reduction of tonic somatic motor activity , influencing both gamma ( γ ) and alpha ( α ) motor systems .
Pharmacological studies in animals showed a similarity between the effects of cyclobenzaprine and the structurally related tricyclic antidepressants , including reserpine antagonism , norepinephrine potentiation , potent peripheral and central anticholinergic effects , and sedation .
Cyclobenzaprine caused slight to moderate increase in heart rate in animals .
Pharmacokinetics Estimates of mean oral bioavailability of cyclobenzaprine range from 33 % to 55 % .
Cyclobenzaprine exhibits linear pharmacokinetics over the dose range 2 . 5 mg to 10 mg , and is subject to enterohepatic circulation .
It is highly bound to plasma proteins .
Drug accumulates when dosed three times a day , reaching steady - state within 3 - 4 days at plasma concentrations about four - fold higher than after a single dose .
At steady state in healthy subjects receiving 10 mg t . i . d . ( n = 18 ) , peak plasma concentration was 25 . 9 ng / mL ( range , 12 . 8 - 46 . 1 ng / mL ) , and area under the concentration - time ( AUC ) curve over an 8 - hour dosing interval was 177 ng . hr / mL ( range , 80 - 319 ng . hr / mL ) .
Cyclobenzaprine is extensively metabolized , and is excreted primarily as glucuronides via the kidney .
Cytochromes P - 450 3A4 , 1A2 , and , to a lesser extent , 2D6 , mediate N - demethylation , one of the oxidative pathways for cyclobenzaprine .
Cyclobenzaprine is eliminated quite slowly , with an effective half - life of 18 hours ( range 8 - 37 hours ; n = 18 ) ; plasma clearance is 0 . 7 L / min .
The plasma concentration of cyclobenzaprine is generally higher in the elderly and in patients with hepatic impairment .
( See PRECAUTIONS , Use in the Elderly and PRECAUTIONS , Impaired Hepatic Function . )
Elderly In a pharmacokinetic study in elderly individuals ( ≥ 65 yrs old ) , mean ( n = 10 ) steady - state cyclobenzaprine AUC values were approximately 1 . 7 fold ( 171 . 0 ng . hr / mL , range 96 . 1 - 255 . 3 ) higher than those seen in a group of eighteen younger adults ( 101 . 4 ng . hr / mL , range 36 . 1 - 182 . 9 ) from another study .
Elderly male subjects had the highest observed mean increase , approximately 2 . 4 fold ( 198 . 3 ng . hr / mL , range 155 . 6 - 255 . 3 versus 83 . 2 ng . hr / mL , range 41 . 1 142 . 5 for younger males ) while levels in elderly females were increased to a much lesser extent , approximately 1 . 2 fold ( 143 . 8 ng . hr / mL , range 96 . 1 - 196 . 3 versus 115 . 9 ng . hr / mL , range 36 . 1 182 . 9 for younger females ) .
In light of these findings , therapy with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride in the elderly should be initiated with a 5 mg dose and titrated slowly upward .
Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of sixteen subjects with hepatic impairment ( 15 mild , 1 moderate per Child - Pugh score ) , both AUC and Cmax were approximately double the values seen in the healthy control group .
Based on the findings , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be used with caution in subjects with mild hepatic impairment starting with the 5 mg dose and titrating slowly upward .
Due to the lack of data in subjects with more severe hepatic insufficiency , the use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride in subjects with moderate to severe impairment is not recommended .
No significant effect on plasma levels or bioavailability of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride or aspirin was noted when single or multiple doses of the two drugs were administered concomitantly .
Concomitant administration of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and naproxen or diflunisal was well tolerated with no reported unexpected adverse effects .
However combination therapy of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride with naproxen was associated with more side effects than therapy with naproxen alone , primarily in the form of drowsiness .
No well - controlled studies have been performed to indicate that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride enhances the clinical effect of aspirin or other analgesics , or whether analgesics enhance the clinical effect of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride in acute musculoskeletal conditions .
Clinical Studies Eight double - blind controlled clinical studies were performed in 642 patients comparing cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg , diazepam , and placebo .
Muscle spasm , local pain and tenderness , limitation of motion , and restriction in activities of daily living were evaluated .
In three of these studies there was a significantly greater improvement with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride than with diazepam , while in the other studies the improvement following both treatments was comparable .
Although the frequency and severity of adverse reactions observed in patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride were comparable to those observed in patients treated with diazepam , dry mouth was observed more frequently in patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and dizziness more frequently in those treated with diazepam .
The incidence of drowsiness , the most frequent adverse reaction , was similar with both drugs .
The efficacy of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg was demonstrated in two seven - day , double - blind , controlled clinical trials enrolling 1405 patients .
One study compared cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg and 10 mg t . i . d . to placebo ; and a second study compared cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg and 2 . 5 mg t . i . d . to placebo .
Primary endpoints for both trials were determined by patient - generated data and included global impression of change , medication helpfulness , and relief from starting backache .
Each endpoint consisted of a score on a 5 - point rating scale ( from 0 or worst outcome to 4 or best outcome ) .
Secondary endpoints included a physician ' s evaluation of the presence and extent of palpable muscle spasm .
Comparisons of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg and placebo groups in both trials established the statistically significant superiority of the 5 mg dose for all three primary endpoints at day 8 and , in the study comparing 5 and 10 mg , at day 3 or 4 as well .
A similar effect was observed with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg ( all endpoints ) .
Physician - assessed secondary endpoints also showed that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg was associated with a greater reduction in palpable muscle spasm than placebo .
Analysis of the data from controlled studies shows that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride produces clinical improvement whether or not sedation occurs .
Surveillance Program A post - marketing surveillance program was carried out in 7607 patients with acute musculoskeletal disorders , and included 297 patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg for 30 days or longer .
The overall effectiveness of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride was similar to that observed in the double - blind controlled studies ; the overall incidence of adverse effects was less ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP are indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Improvement is manifested by relief of muscle spasm and its associated signs and symptoms , namely , pain , tenderness , limitation of motion , and restriction in activities of daily living .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP should be used only for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP has not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease , or in children with cerebral palsy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
Hyperpyretic crisis seizures , and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine ( or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants ) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs .
Acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction , and patients with arrhythmias , heart block or conduction disturbances , or congestive heart failure .
Hyperthyroidism .
WARNINGS Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride when used in combination with other drugs , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors .
The concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride with MAO inhibitors is contraindicated ( see CONTRAINDICATIONS ) .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , confusion , agitation , hallucinations ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , diaphoresis , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular abnormalities ( e . g . , tremor , ataxia , hyperreflexia , clonus , muscle rigidity ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above reactions occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated .
If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , careful observation is advised , particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Cyclobenzaprine is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants , e . g . , amitriptyline and imipramine .
In short term studies for indications other than muscle spasm associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions , and usually at doses somewhat greater than those recommended for skeletal muscle spasm , some of the more serious central nervous system reactions noted with the tricyclic antidepressants have occurred ( see WARNINGS , below , and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to produce arrhythmias , sinus tachycardia , prolongation of the conduction time leading to myocardial infarction and stroke .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
PRECAUTIONS General Because of its atropine - like action , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be used with caution in patients with a history of urinary retention , angle - closure glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and in patients taking anticholinergic medication .
Impaired Hepatic Function The plasma concentration of cyclobenzaprine is increased in patients with hepatic impairment ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , Hepatic Impairment ) .
These patients are generally more susceptible to drugs with potentially sedating effects , including cyclobenzaprine .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be used with caution in subjects with mild hepatic impairment starting with a 5 mg dose and titrating slowly upward .
Due to the lack of data in subjects with more severe hepatic insufficiency , the use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride in subjects with moderate to severe impairment is not recommended .
Information for Patients Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride , especially when used with alcohol or other CNS depressants , may impair mental and / or physical abilities required for performance of hazardous tasks , such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle .
In the elderly , the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with the use of cyclobenzaprine , with or without concomitant medications , is increased .
In elderly patients , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be initiated with a 5 mg dose and titrated slowly upward .
Patients should be cautioned about the risk of serotonin syndrome with the concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other drugs , such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors .
Patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome , and be instructed to seek medical care immediately if they experience these symptoms ( see WARNINGS , and see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions ) .
Drug Interactions Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may have life - threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors .
( See CONTRAINDICATIONS . )
Postmarketing cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other drugs , such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors .
If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , careful observation is advised , particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases ( see WARNINGS ) .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
Tricyclic antidepressants may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similarly acting compounds .
Tricyclic antidepressants may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking tramadol .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility In rats treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride for up to 67 weeks at doses of approximately 5 to 40 times the maximum recommended human dose , pale , sometimes enlarged , livers were noted and there was a dose - related hepatocyte vacuolation with lipidosis .
In the higher dose groups this microscopic change was seen after 26 weeks and even earlier in rats which died prior to 26 weeks ; at lower doses , the change was not seen until after 26 weeks .
Cyclobenzaprine did not affect the onset , incidence or distribution of neoplasia in an 81 - week study in the mouse or in a 105 - week study in the rat .
At oral doses of up to 10 times the human dose , cyclobenzaprine did not adversely affect the reproductive performance or fertility of male or female rats .
Cyclobenzaprine did not demonstrate mutagenic activity in the male mouse at dose levels of up to 20 times the human dose .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice and rabbits atdoses up to 20 times the human dose , and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether this drug is excreted in human milk .
Because cyclobenzaprine is closely related to the tricyclic antidepressants , some of which are known to be excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride in pediatric patients below 15 years of age have not been established .
Use in the Elderly The plasma concentration of cyclobenzaprine is increased in the elderly ( see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY , Pharmacokinetics , Elderly ) .
The elderly may also be more at risk for CNS adverse events such as hallucinations and confusion , cardiac events resulting in falls or other sequelae , drug - drug and drug - disease interactions .
For these reasons , in the elderly , cyclobenzaprine should be used only if clearly needed .
In such patients cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should be initiated with a 5 mg dose and titrated slowly upward .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Incidence of most common adverse reactions in the 2 double - blind * , placebo - controlled 5 mg studies ( incidence of > 3 % on cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg ) : * Note : Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride10 mg data are from one clinical trial .
cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg and placebo data are from two studies .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 5 mg Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg Placebo N = 464 N = 249 N = 469 Drowsiness 29 % 38 % 10 % Dry Mouth 21 % 32 % 7 % Fatigue 6 % 6 % 3 % Headache 5 % 5 % 8 % Adverse reactions which were reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : abdominal pain , acid regurgitation , constipation , diarrhea , dizziness , nausea , irritability , mental acuity decreased , nervousness , upper respiratory infection , and pharyngitis .
The following list of adverse reactions is based on the experience in 473 patients treated with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg in additional controlled clinical studies , 7607 patients in the postmarketing surveillance program , and reports received since the drug was marketed .
The overall incidence of adverse reactions among patients in the surveillance program was less than the incidence in the controlled clinical studies .
The adverse reactions reported most frequently with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride were drowsiness , dry mouth and dizziness .
The incidence of these common adverse reactions was lower in the surveillance program than in the controlled clinical studies : Clinical Studies With cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg Surveillance Program With cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride 10 mg Drowsiness 39 % 16 % Dry Mouth 27 % 7 % Dizziness 11 % 3 % Among the less frequent adverse reactions , there was no appreciable difference in incidence in controlled clinical studies or in the surveillance program .
Adverse reactions which were reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : fatigue / tiredness , asthenia , nausea , constipation , dyspepsia , unpleasant taste , blurred vision , headache , nervousness , and confusion .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in post - marketing experience or with an incidence of less than 1 % of patients in clinical trials with the 10 mg tablet : Body as a Whole : Syncope ; malaise .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia ; arrhythmia ; vasodilatation ; palpitation ; hypotension .
Digestive : Vomiting ; anorexia ; diarrhea ; gastrointestinal pain ; gastritis ; thirst ; flatulence ; edema of the tongue ; abnormal liver function and rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice and cholestasis .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis ; angioedema ; pruritus ; facial edema ; urticaria ; rash .
Musculoskeletal : Local weakness .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Seizures , ataxia ; vertigo ; dysarthria ; tremors ; hypertonia ; convulsions ; muscle twitching ; disorientation ; insomnia ; depressed mood ; abnormal sensations ; anxiety ; agitation ; psychosis , abnormal thinking and dreaming ; hallucinations ; excitement ; paresthesia ; diplopia , serotonin syndrome .
Skin : Sweating .
Special Senses : Ageusia ; tinnitus .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency and / or retention .
Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions , reported rarely for cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride under circumstances where a causal relationship could not be established or reported for other tricyclic drugs , are listed to serve as alerting information to physicians : Body as a whole : Chest pain ; edema .
Cardiovascular : Hypertension ; myocardial infarction ; heart block ; stroke .
Digestive : Paralytic ileus , tongue discoloration ; stomatitis ; parotid swelling .
Endocrine : Inappropriate ADH syndrome .
Hematic and Lymphatic : Purpura ; bone marrow depression ; leukopenia ; eosinophilia ; thrombocytopenia .
Metabolic , Nutritional and Immune : Elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels ; weight gain or loss .
Musculoskeletal : Myalgia .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Decreased or increased libido ; abnormal gait ; delusions ; aggressive behavior ; paranoia ; peripheral neuropathy ; Bell ' s palsy ; alteration in EEG patterns ; extrapyramidal symptoms .
Respiratory : Dyspnea .
Skin : Photosensitization ; alopecia .
Urogenital : Impaired urination ; dilatation of urinary tract ; impotence ; testicular swelling ; gynecomastia ; breast enlargement ; galactorrhea .
DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE Pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic drugs require that certain withdrawal symptoms be considered when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is administered , even though they have not been reported to occur with this drug .
Abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged administration rarely may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
These are not indicative of addiction .
OVERDOSAGE Although rare , deaths may occur from overdosage with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate cyclobenzaprine overdose .
As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity maydevelop rapidly after cyclobenzaprine overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
The acute oral LD50 of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride is approximately 338 and 425 mg / kg in mice and rats , respectively .
Manifestations The most common effects associated with cyclobenzaprine overdose are drowsiness and tachycardia .
Less frequent manifestations include tremor , agitation , coma , ataxia , hypertension , slurred speech , confusion , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , and hallucinations .
Rare but potentially critical manifestations of overdose are cardiac arrest , chest pain , cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , seizures , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of cyclobenzaprine toxicity .
Other potential effects of overdosage include any of the symptoms listed under ADVERSE REACTIONS .
Management General As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
In order to protect against the rare but potentially critical manifestations described above , obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ' s airway , establish an intravenous line and initiate gastric decontamination .
Observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is required .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Dialysis is probably of no value because of low plasma concentrations of the drug .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of an overdose with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage and emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of ≥ 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Serum alkalinization , to a pH of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 , using intravenous sodium bicarbonate and hyperventilation ( as needed ) , should be instituted for patients with dysrhythmias and / or QRS widening .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mmHg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines or , if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in close consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - Up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of child and adult overdosages are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For most patients , the recommended dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP is 5 mg three times a day .
Based on individual patient response , the dose may be increased to 10 mg three times a day .
Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride tablets , USP for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended .
( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Less frequent dosing should be considered for hepatically impaired or elderly patients ( see PRECAUTIONS , Impaired Hepatic Function , and Use in the Elderly ) .
HOW SUPPLIED Product : 50090 - 5772 NDC : 50090 - 5772 - 0 15 TABLET , FILM COATED in a BOTTLE STORAGE Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Rx Only Additional patient information leaflets can be obtained by calling Unichem at 1 - 866 - 562 - 4616 .
Manufactured by : UNICHEM LABORATORIES LTD .
Pilerne Ind .
Estate , Pilerne , Bardez , Goa 403 511 , India .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] East Brunswick , NJ 08816 01 - R - 07 / 2019 13011218 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CYCLOBENZAPRINE HYDROCHLORIDE [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
