DESCRIPTION Ciclopirox olamine cream , USP is for topical use .
Each gram of ciclopirox olamine cream , USP contains 7 . 70 mg of ciclopirox ( as Ciclopirox Olamine ) in a water miscible vanishing cream base consisting of Purified Water USP , Octyldodecanol NF , Light Mineral Oil NF , Stearyl Alcohol NF , Cetyl Alcohol NF , Polysorbate 60 NF , Myristyl Alcohol NF , Sorbitan Monostearate NF , Lactic Acid USP , and Benzyl Alcohol NF ( 1 % ) as preservative .
Ciclopirox olamine cream , USP contains a synthetic , broad - spectrum , antifungal agent ciclopirox ( as ciclopirox olamine ) .
The chemical name is 6 - cyclohexyl - 1 - hydroxy - 4 - methyl - 2 ( 1 H ) - pyridone , 2 - aminoethanol salt .
The CAS Registry Number is 41621 - 49 - 2 .
The chemical structure is Ciclopirox olamine cream , USP has a pH of 7 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Ciclopirox is a broad - spectrum , antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic dermatophytes , yeasts , and Malassezia furfur .
Ciclopirox exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against isolates of Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermorphyton floccosum , Microsporum canis , and Candida albicans .
Pharmacokinetic studies in men with tagged ciclopirox solution in polyethylene glycol 400 showed an average of 1 . 3 % absorption of the dose when it was applied topically to 750 cm2 on the back followed by occlusion for 6 hours .
The biological half - life was 1 . 7 hours and excretion occurred via the kidney .
Two days after application only 0 . 01 % of the dose applied could be found in the urine .
Fecal excretion was negligible .
Penetration studies in human cadaverous skin from the back , with ciclopirox olamine cream , USP with tagged ciclopirox showed the presence of 0 . 8 to 1 . 6 % of the dose in the stratum corneum 1 . 5 to 6 hours after application .
The levels in the dermis were still 10 to 15 times above the minimum inhibitory concentrations .
Autoradiographic studies with human cadaverous skin showed that ciclopirox penetrates into the hair and through the epidermis and hair follicles into the sebaceous glands and dermis , while a portion of the drug remains in the stratum corneum .
Draize Human Sensitization Assay , 21 - Day Cumulative Irritancy study , Phototoxicity study , and Photo - Draize study conducted in a total of 142 healthy subjects showed no contact sensitization of the delayed hypersensitivity type , no irritation , no phototoxicity , and no photo - contact sensitization due to ciclopirox olamine cream , USP .
INDICATIONS AND USAGECiclopirox olamine cream , USP is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections : tinea pedis , tinea cruris , and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum , Trichophyton mentagrophytes , Epidermophyton floccosum , and Microsporum canis ; candidiasis ( moniliasis ) due to Candida albicans ; and tinea ( pityriasis ) versicolor due to Malassezia furfur .
CONTRAINDICATIONSCiclopirox olamine cream , USP is contraindicated in individuals who have shown hypersensitivity to any of its components .
WARNINGSCiclopirox olamine cream , USP is not for ophthalmic use .
Keep out of reach of children .
PRECAUTIONSIf a reaction suggesting sensitivity or chemical irritation should occur with the use of ciclopirox olamine cream , USP , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
ADVERSE REACTIONSIn all controlled clinical studies with 514 patients using ciclopirox olamine cream , USP and in 296 patients using the vehicle cream , the incidence of adverse reactions was low .
This included pruritus at the site of application in one patient and worsening of the clinical signs and symptoms in another patient using ciclopirox olamine cream , USP and burning in one patient and worsening of the clinical signs and symptoms in another patient using the vehicle cream .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONGently massage ciclopirox olamine cream , USP into the affected and surrounding skin areas twice daily , in the morning and evening .
Clinical improvement with relief of pruritus and other symptoms usually occurs within the first week of treatment .
If a patient shows no clinical improvement after four weeks of treatment with ciclopirox olamine cream , USP the diagnosis should be redetermined .
Patients with tinea versicolor usually exhibit clinical and mycological clearing after two weeks of treatment .
HOW SUPPLIEDCiclopirox olamine cream , USP is supplied in 15 gram , 30 gram , and 90 gram tubes .
Information for PatientsThe patient should be told to : • Use the medication for the full treatment time even though symptoms may have improved and notify the physician if there is no improvement after four weeks .
• Inform the physician if the area of application shows signs of increased irritation ( redness , itching , burning , blistering , swelling , or oozing ) indicative of possible sensitization .
• Avoid the use of occlusive wrappings or dressings .
Image of label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
