Drug Facts Active ingredient Zinc Oxide 18 % Purpose Sunscreen Uses • Helps prevent sunburn .
• If used as directed with other sun protection measures ( see Directions ) , decreases the risk of skin cancer and early aging caused by the sun .
Warnings • For external use only .
Do not use on damaged or broken skin .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask doctor if rash occurs .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help , or contact Poison Control right away .
Directions • • Apply liberally and evenly 15 minutes prior to sun exposure .
• Reapply after 40 minutes of swimming or sweating · immediately after towel drying · at least every 2 hours .
• Children under 6 months of age : Ask a doctor .
Sun Protection Measures : Spending time in the sun increases your risk of skin cancer and early skin aging .
To decrease this risk , regularly use a sunscreen with a Broad Spectrum SPF value of 15 or higher and other sun protection measures including : • Limit time in the sun , especially from 10 a . m . – 2 p . m . • Wear long - sleeved shirts , pants , hats , and sunglasses .
Other information • • Protect this product from excessive heat and direct sun .
Inactive ingredients • Aloe barbadensis leaf juice , C12 - 15 alkyl benzoate , caprylic / capric triglyceride , glyceryl stearate , helianthus annuus ( sunflower ) seed oil , ricinus communis ( castor ) seed oil , beeswax , oryza sativa ( rice ) bran wax , sorbitan sesquioleate , glycerin , cetyl alcohol , stearyl alcohol , magnesium aluminum silicate , butyrospermum parkii ( shea ) butter , camellia sinensis flower extract , ilex paraguariensis leaf extract , rosa canina fruit oil , tocopheryl acetate , carthamus tinctorius ( safflower ) seed oil , rubus idaeus ( raspberry ) fruit extract , squalane , xanthan gum , propanediol , ethylhexylglycerin , potassium sorbate .
Questions ?
Call us !
800 - 848 - 8498 WATER RESISTANT ( 40 MINUTES ) BIODEGRADABLE , REEF SAFE , NO HARSH CHEMICALS made for babies .
loved by mamas ™ ZOEY naturals ™ is formulated for babies and loved by mamas all around the world .
Our effective and gentle formulas are free of harsh chemicals and safe on our environment .
ZOEY naturals ™ BROAD SPECTRUM SPF 30 SUNSCREEN helps prevent sunburn and is infused with nutrients to keep your baby ' s skin nourished while in the sun .
Remember to reapply every 2 hours or after excessive sweating or swimming .
√ BIODEGRADABLE √ NO HARSH CHEMICALS √ REEF SAFE √ WATER RESISTANT Distributed by : Zoey Naturals 640 Atlantis Road , Melbourne , FL 32904 www . Zoey - Naturals . com Share with us !
Packaging [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
