Instructions for Blood Collection Using Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) BLOOD - PACK ™ Units 4R3622 , 4R3626 FRESENIUS KABI Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Rx only Using Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) and Fenwal HighFlo Needle Instructions for Use Collection Procedure : Use aseptic technique Note : Nominal tubing dimensions of product are 0 . 118 ” inner diameter x 0 . 025 ” wall thickness .
Note : If the Y - Sampling Site is not used , donor samples may be collected using an alternate method following standard procedures .
Precautions : • Do not use unless the solution is clear .
• Before beginning procedure , obtain one access device for each Blood - Pack unit with Y - Sampling Site to be processed .
1 .
Identify Blood - Pack unit using appropriate donor identification system .
2 .
Adjust donor scale to desired collection weight and position primary container on the donor scale as far as possible below donor arm .
3 .
Clamp donor tubing between Fenwal HighFlo1 needle and primary container .
This step may be performed prior to step 1 or 2 .
4 .
Following blood center procedures , apply pressure to donor ’ s arm and disinfect site of venipuncture .
5 .
Remove needle cover per instructions below : a ) Holding the hub and cover near the tamper - evident seal , twist cover and hub in opposite directions to break seal .
b ) Remove needle cover , being careful not to drag the cover across the needle point .
6 .
Following blood center procedures , perform venipuncture , appropriately secure donor needle and / or tubing and release clamp on donor tubing .
7 .
When good blood flow is established , stabilize the front of the needle guard to arm with tape .
( see Figure 1 ) 8 .
Mix blood and anticoagulant in primary container at several intervals during collection and immediately after collection .
9 .
Collect the appropriate volume based on Blood - Pack unit used .
Note : The volume of anticoagulant is sufficient for the blood collection indicated on Blood - Pack unit ± 10 % .
10 .
Release the pressure on the donor ’ s arm as appropriate .
Precaution : Do not proceed with the remaining steps until the entire whole blood unit is collected .
11 .
To avoid possible contamination of the whole blood unit , before filling whole blood sample tubes , hermetically seal the donor tubing near the Y - Sampling Site on the side leading to the primary container using a metal clip or appropriate alternate method .
Precaution : Complete steps 12 - 20 within approximately 4 minutes after sealing the donor tubing to avoid possible clot formation in the tubing .
12 .
To collect samples , insert the access device by pushing firmly into the Y - Sampling Site until the membrane seal is penetrated ( see Figure 2 ) .
Note : If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon insertion to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
13 .
Open the cap on the access device ( if applicable ) .
14 .
Directly align the vacuum sample tube with the internal needle in the access device .
Insert vacuum sample tube into device until the stopper is punctured .
15 .
Allow vacuum sample tube to fill with blood then remove from the access device .
16 .
Repeat steps 14 and 15 until the desired number of vacuum sample tubes have been filled .
Notes : • If the access device needs to be replaced , clamp the tubing between the needle and the Y - Sampling Site .
Then , grasp base of Sampling Site with one hand and pull the access device out with the other hand .
Firmly insert the new access device .
Remove clamp and continue sampling .
• If the access device is assembled such that the outer barrel is screwed onto the Luer , make sure to rotate clockwise upon removal to avoid barrel detaching from Luer .
• The access device can only be replaced one time .
Precaution : When replacing the access device , be careful to avoid contact with any blood droplets on the Luer or Sampling Site .
Discard used access device appropriately .
17 .
Release remaining pressure on donor ’ s arm .
18 .
If desired , apply clamp to donor tubing between needle and Y - Sampling Site .
19 .
Withdrawal of Needle ( see Figure 3 ) Precaution : The needle guard must be held stationary while the needle is withdrawn into it .
a ) Place folded sterile gauze over puncture site and hold in place with finger tip without exerting pressure .
b ) Hold sides of the needle guard near the front , between the index finger and thumb .
Pull the hub back smoothly until the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
c ) Confirm the needle is completely enclosed and securely locked into the needle guard .
20 .
Strip blood from donor tubing into primary container , mix and allow the tubing to refill ; repeat once .
21 .
Seal at X marks on donor tubing to provide numbered aliquots of anticoagulated blood for typing or crossmatching .
Note : Step 22 may be performed prior to step 20 or 21 if desired .
22 .
Remove and discard the Y - Sampling Site and the donor needle in the needle guard into an appropriate biohazardous waste container following established procedures .
23 .
Component Preparation : • If a platelet concentrate is to be prepared , it should be separated from the red blood cells within 8 hours after blood collection .
• Fresh frozen plasma should be separated from the red blood cells and placed in the freezer at - 18 ° C or colder within 8 hours after blood collection .
24 .
At the appropriate time , prepare the Blood - Pack unit for centrifugation by thoroughly mixing the primary container end over end , then load the unit in a centrifuge cup per the instructions on page 3 .
25 .
Following centrifugation , remove containers from the centrifugation cup taking care not to disturb the red blood cell / plasma interface .
26 .
Place primary container in plasma extractor and express plasma into the appropriate empty Transfer Pack container by releasing pressure plate and opening closure in tubing of primary container .
27 .
When desired amount of plasma has been removed , clamp tubing between Y and plasma container .
28 .
Hermetically seal and separate transfer tubing between the Y - connector and primary container .
Be careful to avoid fluid splatter .
29 .
For further processing with multiple Blood - Pack units , use standard component processing and storage techniques .
30 .
Store suspended CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells between 1 and 6 ° C . 31 .
Infuse CPDA - 1 Whole Blood / Red Blood Cells within 35 days of collection .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Store at Controlled Room Temperature .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
Definition of “ Controlled Room Temperature ” : “ A temperature maintained thermostatically that encompasses the usual and customary working environment of 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; that results in a mean kinetic temperature calculated to be not more than 25 ° C ; and that allows for excursions between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) that are experienced in pharmacies , hospitals , and warehouses .
Provided the mean kinetic temperature remains in the allowed range , transient spikes up to 40 ° C are permitted as long as they do not exceed 24 hours ... The mean kinetic temperature is a calculated value that may be used as an isothermal storage temperature that simulates the non isothermal effects of storage temperature variations . ”
Reference : United States Pharmacopeia , General Notices .
United States Pharmacopeial Convention , Inc . 12601 Twinbrook Parkway , Rockville , MD .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 1 Van der Meer , P . F . , & de Korte , D . “ Increase of blood donation speed by optimizing the needle - to - tubing connection : an application of donation software . ”
Vox Sanguinis 2009 , 97 : 21 - 25 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE / LABEL DISPLAY PANEL Code 4R3622 6 Units Fenwal Blood - Pack Units Double Anticoagulant Citrate Phosphate Dextrose Adenine Solution , USP ( CPDA - 1 ) For Collection and Processing of 450 mL Blood Y - Sampling Site 16 ga .
Ultra Thin Wall Fenwal HighFlo Needle Rx only Each unit consists of a primary container with 63 mL of CPDA - 1 solution containing 2 g Dextrose ( monohydrate ) USP , 1 . 66 g Sodium Citrate ( dihydrate ) USP , 188 mg Citric Acid ( anhydrous ) USP , 140 mg Monobasic Sodium Phosphate ( monohydrate ) USP and 17 . 3 mg Adenine USP , pH may have been adjusted with sodium hydroxide ; one empty 400 mL PL 146 Plastic Transfer Pack container .
Sterile , non - pyrogenic fluid path .
See instructions for use .
Single use only .
Store at Controlled Room Temperature ( refer to direction insert ) .
Protect from freezing .
Avoid excessive heat .
• • Open pouch by tearing across at notch .
• • Direct handling of product surfaces prior to extended storage in the foil pouch , may result in mold growth .
• • Unused units in open foil pouch may be kept up to 60 days by folding and securing open end of foil pouch to prevent possible loss of moisture , provided : • 1 .
Units are not removed from foil pouch , or • 2 .
Unused units removed from foil pouch are returned to the foil pouch within 12 hours .
Units may be removed from the pouch and returned only once .
• • Units removed from the foil pouch ( that are not returned to the pouch within 12 hours ) must be used within 4 days ( 96 hours ) .
Units out of the foil pouch for longer than 96 hours must be discarded .
Manufacturer Fresenius Kabi AG .
61346 Bad Homburg / Germany www . fresenius - kabi . com Made in US 47 - 28 - 13 - 505 REV : A [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
