WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY • When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
• Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
WARNING : FETAL TOXICITY See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning .
• When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide as soon as possible .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) • Drugs that act directly on the renin - angiotensin system can cause injury and death to the developing fetus .
( 5 . 1 , 8 . 1 ) 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are indicated for the treatment of hypertension , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions .
These benefits have been seen in controlled trials of antihypertensive drugs from a wide variety of pharmacologic classes including the classes to which this drug principally belongs .
There are no controlled trials demonstrating risk reduction with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP .
Control of high blood pressure should be part of comprehensive cardiovascular risk management , including , as appropriate , lipid control , diabetes management , antithrombotic therapy , smoking cessation , exercise , and limited sodium intake .
Many patients will require more than one drug to achieve blood pressure goals .
For specific advice on goals and management , see published guidelines , such as those of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program ’ s Joint National Committee on Prevention , Detection , Evaluation , and Treatment of High Blood Pressure ( JNC ) .
Numerous antihypertensive drugs , from a variety of pharmacologic classes and with different mechanisms of action , have been shown in randomized controlled trials to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality , and it can be concluded that it is blood pressure reduction , and not some other pharmacologic property of the drugs , that is largely responsible for those benefits .
The largest and most consistent cardiovascular outcome benefit has been a reduction in the risk of stroke , but reductions in myocardial infarction and cardiovascular mortality also have been seen regularly .
Elevated systolic or diastolic pressure causes increased cardiovascular risk , and the absolute risk increase per mmHg is greater at higher blood pressures , so that even modest reductions of severe hypertension can provide substantial benefit .
Relative risk reduction from blood pressure reduction is similar across populations with varying absolute risk , so the absolute benefit is greater in patients who are at higher risk independent of their hypertension ( for example , patients with diabetes or hyperlipidemia ) , and such patients would be expected to benefit from more aggressive treatment to a lower blood pressure goal .
Some antihypertensive drugs have smaller blood pressure effects ( as monotherapy ) in black patients , and many antihypertensive drugs have additional approved indications and effects ( e . g . , on angina , heart failure , or diabetic kidney disease ) .
These considerations may guide selection of therapy [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are not indicated for initial therapy for the treatment of hypertension [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2 . 1 ) ] .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents .
• Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are a combination of an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) and a thiazide diuretic indicated for the treatment of hypertension , alone or with other antihypertensive agents , to lower blood pressure .
Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events , primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions ( 1 ) • Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are not indicated for initial therapy ( 1 ) .
2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • Usual starting dose is 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily ( 2 . 1 ) • Titrate up to 160 mg / 25 mg as needed ( 2 . 1 ) • Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency at 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Dosing Information Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy 80 mg on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
Dose can be titrated up to 160 mg / 25 mg after 2 to 4 weeks , if necessary .
Initiate a patient whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled by 25 mg once daily of hydrochlorothiazide , or is controlled but who experiences hypokalemia with this regimen on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg once daily .
Dose can be titrated up to 160 mg / 25 mg after 2 to 4 weeks , if necessary .
Patients titrated to the individual components ( telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide ) may instead receive the corresponding dose of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may be administered with other antihypertensive drugs .
2 . 2 Dose Adjustment for Hepatic Impairment Initiate patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency under close medical supervision using the 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg combination .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended for patients with severe hepatic impairment [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
2 . 3 Important Administration Instructions Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets should not be removed from blisters or bottles until immediately before administration .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS · 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L199 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
· 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L200 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
· 80 mg / 25 mg , oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one yellow color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L201 ’ White to off white color layer may contains yellow color specks .
Tablets : 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 25 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are contraindicated : · In patients who are hypersensitive to any component of this product [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] .
· In patients with anuria .
· For co - administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 4 ) ] .
• Hypersensitivity to telmisartan or any component ( 4 ) • Anuria ( 4 ) • Co - Administration with aliskiren in patients with diabetes ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Avoid fetal or neonatal exposure ( 5 . 1 ) · Correct volume or salt depletion before initiating therapy .
Observe for signs and symptoms of hypotension ( 5 . 2 ) · Monitor renal function and potassium in susceptible patients ( 5 . 3 ) · Observe for clinical signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance ( 5 . 4 ) · Hypersensitivity Reaction ( 5 . 5 ) · Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Fetal Toxicity Telmisartan Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death .
Resulting oligohydramnios can be associated with fetal lung hypoplasia and skeletal deformations .
Potential neonatal adverse effects include skull hypoplasia , anuria , hypotension , renal failure , and death .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
Adverse reactions include fetal or neonatal jaundice and thrombocytopenia [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
5 . 2 Hypotension in Volume - or Salt - Depleted Patients In patients with an activated renin - angiotensin system , such as volume - or salt - depleted patients ( e . g . , those being treated with high doses of diuretics ) , symptomatic hypotension may occur after initialization of treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Correct volume or salt depletion prior to administration of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
5 . 3 Impaired Renal Function Changes in renal function including acute renal failure can be caused by drugs that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system and by diuretics .
Patients whose renal function may depend in part on the activity of the renin - angiotensin system ( e . g . , patients with renal artery stenosis , chronic kidney disease , severe congestive heart failure , or volume depletion ) may be at particular risk of developing oliguria , progressive azotemia , or acute renal failure on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Monitor renal function periodically in these patients .
Consider withholding or discontinuing therapy in patients who develop a clinically significant decrease in renal function on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
5 . 4 Electrolytes and Metabolic Disorders Drugs , including telmisartan , that inhibit the renin - angiotensin system can cause hyperkalemia , particularly in patients with renal insufficiency , diabetes , or combination use with other angiotensin receptor blockers or ACE inhibitors and the concomitant use of other drugs that raise serum potassium levels [ see Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 , 7 . 4 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide can cause hypokalemia and hyponatremia .
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium ; this may result in hypomagnesemia .
Hypomagnesemia can result in hypokalemia which may be difficult to treat despite potassium repletion .
Monitor serum electrolytes periodically .
In controlled trials using the telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide combination treatment , no patient administered 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , or 80 mg / 25 mg experienced a decrease in potassium ≥ 1 . 4 mEq / L , and no patient experienced hyperkalemia .
Hydrochlorothiazide decreases urinary calcium excretion and may cause elevations of serum calcium .
Hydrochlorothiazide may alter glucose tolerance and raise serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides .
Hyperuricemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy .
Because telmisartan decreases uric acid , telmisartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide attenuates the diuretic - induced hyperuricemia .
5 . 5 Hypersensitivity Reaction Hydrochlorothiazide Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or bronchial asthma , but are more likely in patients with such a history [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
5 . 6 Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
5 . 7 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Thiazide diuretics have been reported to cause exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus .
5 . 8 Postsympathectomy Patients The antihypertensive effects of hydrochlorothiazide may be enhanced in the postsympathectomy patient .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in labeling : · Hypotension [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] · Renal Impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] · Electrolytes and Metabolic Disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] The most common adverse reactions ( ≥ 2 % of patients ) were upper respiratory tract infection , dizziness , sinusitis , diarrhea , fatigue , influenza - like symptoms , and nausea ( 6 . 1 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contactAlembic Pharmaceuticals Limited at 1 - 866 - 210 - 9797 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet has been evaluated for safety in more than 1700 patients , including 716 treated for hypertension for longer than 6 months and 420 for more than 1 year .
Adverse reactions have been limited to those that have been previously reported with telmisartan and / or hydrochlorothiazide .
Adverse reactions occurring at an incidence of ≥ 2 % in patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide and at a greater rate than in patients treated with placebo , are presented in Table 1 [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
Table 1 : Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of ≥ 2 % in Patients Treated with Telmisartan / Hydrochlorothiazide and at a Greater Rate Than in Patients Treated with Placebo * Telmisartan / Hydrochlorothiazide ( N = 414 ) Placebo ( N = 74 ) Telmisartan ( N = 209 ) Hydrochlorothiazide ( N = 121 ) Body as a whole Fatigue 3 % 1 % 3 % 3 % Influenza - like symptoms 2 % 1 % 2 % 3 % Central / peripheral nervous system Dizziness 5 % 1 % 4 % 6 % Gastrointestinal system Diarrhea 3 % 0 % 5 % 2 % Nausea 2 % 0 % 1 % 2 % Respiratory system disorder Sinusitis 4 % 3 % 3 % 6 % Upper respiratory tract infection 8 % 7 % 7 % 10 % * includes all doses of telmisartan ( 20 to 160 mg ) , hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 to 25 mg ) , and combinations thereof Other adverse reactions observed for telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide were : pain ( including back and abdominal ) , dyspepsia , erythema , vomiting , bronchitis , and pharyngitis .
Adverse reactions occurred at approximately the same rates in men and women , older and younger patients , and black and non - black patients .
Telmisartan Other adverse events that have been reported with telmisartan are listed below : Autonomic Nervous System : impotence , increased sweating , flushing Body as a Whole : allergy , fever , leg pain , chest pain Cardiovascular : palpitation , angina pectoris , abnormal ECG , hypertension , peripheral edema Central Nervous System : insomnia , somnolence , migraine , paresthesia , involuntary muscle contractions , hypoesthesia Gastrointestinal : flatulence , constipation , gastritis , dry mouth , hemorrhoids , gastroesophageal reflux , toothache Hepato - biliary : elevations of liver enzymes or serum bilirubin Metabolic : gout , hypercholesterolemia , diabetes mellitus Musculoskeletal : arthritis , arthralgia , leg cramps , myalgia Psychiatric : anxiety , depression , nervousness Resistance Mechanism : infection , abscess , otitis media Respiratory : asthma , rhinitis , dyspnea , epistaxis Skin : dermatitis , eczema , pruritus Urinary : micturition frequency , cystitis Vascular : cerebrovascular disorder Special Senses : abnormal vision , conjunctivitis , tinnitus , earache Hydrochlorothiazide Other adverse events that have been reported with hydrochlorothiazide are listed below : Body as a Whole : weakness Digestive : pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , sialadenitis , cramping , gastric irritation Hematologic : aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia Hypersensitivity : purpura , photosensitivity , urticaria , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , fever , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , anaphylactic reactions Metabolic : hyperglycemia , glycosuria Musculoskeletal : muscle spasm Nervous System / Psychiatric : restlessness Renal : interstitial nephritis Skin : erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis Special Senses : transient blurred vision , xanthopsia Clinical Laboratory Findings Creatinine , Blood Urea Nitrogen ( BUN ) : Increases in BUN ( ≥ 11 . 2 mg / dL ) and serum creatinine ( ≥ 0 . 5 mg / dL ) were observed in 2 . 8 % and 1 . 4 % , respectively , of patients with essential hypertension treated with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in controlled trials .
No patient discontinued treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets because of an increase in BUN or creatinine [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate reliably their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders : eosinophilia Cardiac Disorders : atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure , myocardial infarction , tachycardia , bradycardia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders : vertigo General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions : asthenia , edema Hepato - biliary : Abnormal hepatic function / liver disorder Immune System Disorders : anaphylactic reaction Infections and Infestations : urinary tract infection Investigations : increased CPK Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders : hypoglycemia ( in diabetic patients ) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders : tendon pain ( including tendonitis , tenosynovitis ) , rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders : syncope , headache Renal and Urinary Disorders : renal failure , renal impairment including acute renal failure Reproductive System and Breast Disorders : erectile dysfunction Respiratory , Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders : coughing Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders : drug eruption ( toxic skin eruption mostly reported as toxicoderma , rash , and urticaria ) , angioedema ( with fatal outcome ) Vascular Disorder : orthostatic hypotension Non - melanoma Skin Cancer Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS • Lithium : Risk of lithium toxicity ( 7 . 2 ) • Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) : Reduced diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects ; increased risk of renal impairment ( 7 . 3 ) • Dual blockade of renin - angiotensin system : Increased risk of renal impairment , hypotension , and hyperkalemia ( 7 . 4 ) • Antidiabetic drugs : Dosage adjustment may be required ( 7 . 6 ) • Cholestyramine and colestipol : Reduced absorption of thiazides ( 7 . 7 ) 7 . 1 Agents Increasing Serum Potassium Co - administration of telmisartan with other drugs that raise serum potassium levels may result in hyperkalemia .
Monitor serum potassium in such patients .
7 . 2 Lithium Increases in serum lithium concentrations and lithium toxicity have been reported with concomitant use of thiazide diuretics or angiotensin II receptor antagonists , including telmisartan .
Monitor lithium levels in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and lithium .
7 . 3 Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors Telmisartan Non - Steroidal Anti - Inflammatory Agents including Selective Cyclooxygenase - 2 Inhibitors ( COX - 2 Inhibitors ) : In patients who are elderly , volume - depleted ( including those on diuretic therapy ) , or with compromised renal function , co - administration of NSAIDs , including selective COX - 2 inhibitors , with ARBs , including telmisartan , may result in deterioration of renal function , including possible acute renal failure .
These effects are usually reversible .
The antihypertensive effect of ARBs may be attenuated by NSAIDs .
Therefore , monitor renal function and blood pressure periodically in patients receiving telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and NSAIDs .
Hydrochlorothiazide Administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent , including a selective COX - 2 inhibitor , can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of diuretics .
Therefore , when telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents including selective COX - 2 inhibitors are used concomitantly , observe closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
7 . 4 Dual Blockade of the Renin - Angiotensin - Aldosterone System and Changes in Renal Function Dual blockade of the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system ( RAS ) with angiotensin blockers , ACE inhibitors , or aliskiren is associated with increased risks of hypotension , hyperkalemia , and renal impairment .
The ONTARGET trial enrolled 25 , 620 patients ≥ 55 years old with atherosclerotic disease or diabetes with end - organ damage , randomizing them to telmisartan ( ARB ) only , ramipril ( ACE inhibitor ) only , or the combination , and followed them for a median of 56 months .
Patients who received the combination of ARB and ACE inhibitor did not obtain any additional benefit ( no additional reduction of risk of cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction , stroke , or hospitalization from heart failure ) compared to ARB monotherapy or ACE inhibitor monotherapy , but experienced an increased incidence of renal dysfunction ( e . g . , acute renal failure ) compared with monotherapy groups .
In general , avoid combined use of RAS inhibitors .
Closely monitor blood pressure , renal function and electrolytes in patients on telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and other agents that affect the RAS .
Do not co - administer aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with diabetes .
Avoid concomitant use of aliskiren with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with renal impairment ( GFR < 60 mL / min / 1 . 73 m2 ) .
7 . 5 Digoxin When telmisartan was co - administered with digoxin , median increases in digoxin peak plasma concentration ( 49 % ) and in trough concentration ( 20 % ) were observed .
Monitor digoxin levels in patients taking concomitant telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and digoxin .
7 . 6 Antidiabetic Drugs ( Oral Agents and Insulin ) Dosage adjustment of antidiabetic drugs may be required when co - administered with hydrochlorothiazide .
7 . 7 Cholestyramine and Colestipol Resins Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins .
Stagger the dosage of hydrochlorothiazide and the resin such that hydrochlorothiazide is administered at least 4 hours before or 4 to 6 hours after the administration of the resin .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS • Lactation : Do not breastfeed during treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ( 8 . 2 ) • Severe Hepatic Impairment : Use not recommended ( 8 . 6 ) • Severe Renal Impairment : Use not recommended ( 8 . 7 ) 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman .
Use of drugs that act on the renin - angiotensin system during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy reduces fetal renal function and increases fetal and neonatal morbidity and death ( see Clinical Considerations ) .
Most epidemiologic studies examining fetal abnormalities after exposure to antihypertensive use in the first trimester have not distinguished drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system from other antihypertensive agents .
Studies in rats and rabbits with telmisartan showed fetotoxicity only at maternally toxic doses ( see Data ) .
When pregnancy is detected , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets as soon as possible .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated population is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the U . S . general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Clinical Considerations Disease - associated maternal and / or embryo / fetal risk Hypertension in pregnancy increases the maternal risk for pre - eclampsia , gestational diabetes , premature delivery , and delivery complications ( e . g . , need for cesarean section , and post - partum hemorrhage ) .
Hypertension increases the fetal risk for intrauterine growth restriction and intrauterine death .
Pregnant women with hypertension should be carefully monitored and managed accordingly .
Fetal / Neonatal adverse reactions Telmisartan Use of drugs that act on the RAS in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy can result in the following : oligohydramnios , reduced fetal renal function leading to anuria and renal failure , fetal lung hypoplasia , skeletal deformations , including skull hypoplasia , hypotension , and death .
In the unusual case that there is no appropriate alternative to therapy with drugs affecting the renin - angiotensin system for a particular patient , apprise the mother of the potential risk to the fetus .
In patients taking telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy , perform serial ultrasound examinations to assess the intra - amniotic environment .
Fetal testing may be appropriate , based on the week of gestation .
If oligohydramnios is observed , discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , unless it is considered lifesaving for the mother .
Patients and physicians should be aware , however , that oligohydramnios may not appear until after the fetus has sustained irreversible injury .
Closely observe infants with histories of in utero exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for hypotension , oliguria , and hyperkalemia .
If oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as a means of reversing hypotension and replacing renal function [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 4 ) ] .
Hydrochlorothiazide Thiazides cross the placenta , and use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possible other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Data Animal Data Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets A developmental toxicity study was performed in rats with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide doses of 3 . 2 / 1 , 15 / 4 . 7 , 50 / 15 . 6 , and 0 / 15 . 6 mg / kg / day .
Although the two higher dose combinations appeared to be more toxic ( significant decrease in body weight gain ) to the dams than either drug alone , there did not appear to be an increase in toxicity to the developing embryos .
Telmisartan No teratogenic effects were observed when telmisartan was administered to pregnant rats at oral doses of up to 50 mg / kg / day and to pregnant rabbits at oral doses of up to 45 mg / kg / day .
In rabbits , embryo lethality associated with maternal toxicity ( reduced body weight gain and food consumption ) was observed at 45 mg / kg / day ( approximately 12 times the maximum recommended human dose [ MRHD ] of 80 mg on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In rats , maternally toxic ( reduced body weight gain and food consumption ) telmisartan doses of 15 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 9 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) , administered during late gestation and lactation , were observed to produce adverse effects in neonates , including reduced viability , low birth weight , delayed maturation , and decreased weight gain .
The no - observed - effect doses for developmental toxicity in rats and rabbits , 5 and 15 mg / kg / day , respectively , are approximately 0 . 64 and 3 . 7 times , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of telmisartan ( 80 mg / day ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3000 and 1000 mg / kg / day , respectively ( about 600 and 400 times the MRHD ) , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
Thiazides can cross the placenta , and concentrations reached in the umbilical vein approach those in the maternal plasma .
Hydrochlorothiazide , like other diuretics , can cause placental hypoperfusion .
It accumulates in the amniotic fluid , with reported concentrations up to 19 times that in umbilical vein plasma .
Use of thiazides during pregnancy is associated with a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice or thrombocytopenia .
Since they do not prevent or alter the course of EPH ( Edema , Proteinuria , Hypertension ) gestosis ( pre - eclampsia ) , these drugs should not be used to treat hypertension in pregnant women .
The use of hydrochlorothiazide for other indications ( e . g . , heart disease ) in pregnancy should be avoided .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There is no information regarding the presence of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets or telmisartan in human milk , the effects on the breastfed infant or the effects on milk production .
Limited published studies report that hydrochlorothiazide is present in human milk .
However , there is insufficient information to determine the effects of hydrochlorothiazide on the breastfed infant or the effects of hydrochlorothiazide on milk production .
Telmisartan is present in the milk of lactating rats .
( see Data ) .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in the breastfed infant including hypotension , hyperkalemia and renal impairment , advise a nursing woman not to breastfeed during treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Data Telmisartan was present in the milk of lactating rats at concentrations 1 . 5 to 2 times those found in plasma from 4 to 8 hours after administration .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in pediatric patients have not been established .
Neonates with a history of in utero exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets : If oliguria or hypotension occurs , support blood pressure and renal perfusion .
Exchange transfusions or dialysis may be required as means of reversing hypotension and / or substituting for disordered renal function .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use In the controlled clinical trials ( n = 1017 ) , approximately 20 % of patients treated with telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide were 65 years of age or older , and 5 % were 75 years of age or older .
No overall differences in effectiveness and safety of telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide were observed in these patients compared to younger patients .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients , but greater sensitivity of some older individuals cannot be ruled out .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal or cardiac function and of concomitant diseases or other drug therapy .
8 . 6 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment Patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency should initiate treatment under close medical supervision using the 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg combination .
Telmisartan As the majority of telmisartan is eliminated by biliary excretion , patients with biliary obstructive disorders or hepatic insufficiency can be expected to have reduced clearance and higher blood levels .
Hydrochlorothiazide Minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease .
8 . 7 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Safety and effectiveness of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets in patients with severe renal impairment ( CrCl ≤ 30 mL / min ) have not been established .
In patients with severe renal impairment , telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are not recommended .
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild ( CrCl 60 to 90 mL / min ) or moderate ( CrCl 30 to 60 mL / min ) renal impairment .
10 OVERDOSAGE Telmisartan Limited data are available with regard to overdosage of telmisartan in humans .
The most likely manifestations of overdosage with telmisartan are hypotension , dizziness , and tachycardia ; bradycardia could occur from parasympathetic ( vagal ) stimulation .
If symptomatic hypotension should occur , supportive treatment should be instituted .
Telmisartan is not removed by hemodialysis .
Hydrochlorothiazide The most common signs and symptoms observed in patients with a hydrochlorothiazide overdose are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 g / kg in both mice and rats .
11 DESCRIPTION Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are a combination of telmisartan , an orally active angiotensin II antagonist acting on the AT1 receptor subtype , and hydrochlorothiazide , a thiazide diuretic .
Telmisartan , a non - peptide molecule , is chemically described as 4 ’ - [ ( 1 , 4 ’ - dimethyl - 2 ’ - propyl [ 2 , 6 ’ - bi - 1 H - benzimidazol ] - 1 ’ - yl ) methyl ] - [ 1 , 1 ’ - biphenyl ] - 2 - carboxylic acid .
Its empirical formula is C33H30 N4O2 , its molecular weight is 514 . 63 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Telmisartan is a white to slightly yellowish solid .
It is practically insoluble in water and in the pH range of 3 to 9 , sparingly soluble in strong acid ( except insoluble in hydrochloric acid ) , and soluble in strong base .
Hydrochlorothiazide is a white , or practically white , practically odorless , crystalline powder with a molecular weight of 297 . 74 .
It is slightly soluble in water , and freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Hydrochlorothiazide is chemically described as 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its empirical formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 , and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are formulated for oral administration in three combinations of 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg , and 80 mg / 25 mg telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide , respectively .
The tablets contain the following inactive ingredients : mannitol , sodium hydroxide , meglumine , povidone , sodium stearyl fumarate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate .
As coloring agents , the 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets contain ferric oxide red , and the 80 mg / 25 mg tablets contain ferric oxide yellow .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets USP , 80 mg / 25 mg are hygroscopic and require protection from moisture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a combination of two drugs with antihypertensive properties : a thiazide diuretic , hydrochlorothiazide , and an angiotensin II receptor blocker ( ARB ) , telmisartan .
Telmisartan Angiotensin II is formed from angiotensin I in a reaction catalyzed by angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE , kininase II ) .
Angiotensin II is the principal pressor agent of the renin - angiotensin system , with effects that include vasoconstriction , stimulation of synthesis and release of aldosterone , cardiac stimulation , and renal reabsorption of sodium .
Telmisartan blocks the vasoconstrictor and aldosterone - secreting effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking the binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor in many tissues , such as vascular smooth muscle and the adrenal gland .
Its action is therefore independent of the pathways for angiotensin II synthesis .
There is also an AT2 receptor found in many tissues , but AT2 is not known to be associated with cardiovascular homeostasis .
Telmisartan has much greater affinity ( > 3 , 000 - fold ) for the AT1 receptor than for the AT2 receptor .
Telmisartan does not inhibit ACE ( kininase II ) nor does it bind to or block other hormone receptors or ion channels known to be important in cardiovascular regulation .
Blockade of the angiotensin II receptor inhibits the negative regulatory feedback of angiotensin II on renin secretion , but the resulting increased plasma renin activity and angiotensin II circulating levels do not overcome the effect of telmisartan on blood pressure .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic .
Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption , directly increasing excretion of sodium salt and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts .
Indirectly , the diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume , with consequent increases in plasma renin activity , increases in aldosterone secretion , increases in urinary potassium loss , and decreases in serum potassium .
The renin - aldosterone link is mediated by angiotensin II , so co - administration of an ARB tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics .
The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazides is not fully understood .
12 . 2 Pharmacodynamics Telmisartan In normal volunteers , a dose of telmisartan 80 mg inhibited the pressor response to an intravenous infusion of angiotensin II by approximately 90 % at peak plasma concentrations with approximately 40 % inhibition persisting for 24 hours .
Plasma concentration of angiotensin II and plasma renin activity increased in a dose - dependent manner after single administration of telmisartan to healthy subjects and repeated administration to hypertensive patients .
The once - daily administration of up to 80 mg telmisartan to healthy subjects did not influence plasma aldosterone concentrations .
In multiple dose studies with hypertensive patients , there were no clinically significant changes in electrolytes ( serum potassium or sodium ) or in metabolic function ( including serum levels of cholesterol , triglycerides , HDL , LDL , glucose , or uric acid ) .
The antihypertensive effects of telmisartan have been studied in six placebo - controlled clinical trials including a total of 1773 patients with mild to moderate hypertension ( diastolic blood pressure of 95 to 114 mmHg ) , 1031 of whom were treated with telmisartan .
Following once - daily administration of telmisartan , the magnitude of blood pressure reduction from baseline after placebo subtraction was approximately ( SBP / DBP ) 6 to 8 / 6 mmHg for 20 mg , 9 to 13 / 6 to 8 mmHg for 40 mg , and 12 to 13 / 7 to 8 mmHg for 80 mg .
Larger doses ( up to 160 mg ) did not appear to cause a further decrease in blood pressure .
The onset of antihypertensive activity occurs within 3 hours , with a maximal reduction by approximately 4 weeks .
At doses of 20 , 40 , and 80 mg , the antihypertensive effect of once - daily administration of telmisartan was maintained for the full 24 - hour dose interval .
In 30 hypertensive patients with normal renal function treated for 8 weeks with telmisartan 80 mg or telmisartan 80 mg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg , there were no clinically significant changes from baseline in renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , filtration fraction , renovascular resistance , or creatinine clearance .
Hydrochlorothiazide After oral administration of hydrochlorothiazide , diuresis begins within 2 hours , peaks in about 4 hours , and lasts approximately 6 to 12 hours .
Drug Interactions Hydrochlorothiazide Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics : Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur .
Skeletal muscle relaxants : Possible increased responsiveness to muscle relaxants such as curare derivatives .
Corticosteroids , ACTH : Intensified electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) : Possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Telmisartan Absorption : Following oral administration , peak concentrations ( Cmax ) of telmisartan are reached in 0 . 5 to 1 hour after dosing .
Food slightly reduces the bioavailability of telmisartan , with a reduction in the area under the plasma concentration - time curve ( AUC ) of approximately 6 % with 40 mg and approximately 20 % after a 160 mg dose .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can be administered with or without food .
The absolute bioavailability of telmisartan is dose dependent .
At 40 mg and 160 mg , the bioavailability was 42 % and 58 % , respectively .
The pharmacokinetics of telmisartan with orally administered telmisartan tablets are nonlinear over the dose range 20 mg to 160 mg , with greater than proportional increases of plasma concentrations ( Cmax and AUC ) with increasing doses .
Telmisartan shows bi - exponential decay kinetics with a terminal elimination half - life of approximately 24 hours .
Trough plasma concentrations of telmisartan with once - daily dosing are approximately 10 % to 25 % of peak plasma concentrations .
Telmisartan has an accumulation index in plasma of 1 . 5 to 2 upon repeated once - daily dosing .
Distribution : Telmisartan is highly bound to plasma proteins ( > 99 . 5 % ) , mainly albumin and α1 - acid glycoprotein .
Plasma protein binding is constant over the concentration range achieved with recommended doses .
The volume of distribution for telmisartan is approximately 500 liters , indicating additional tissue binding .
Metabolism : Telmisartan is metabolized by conjugation to form a pharmacologically inactive acyl glucuronide ; the glucuronide of the parent compound is the only metabolite that has been identified in human plasma and urine .
After a single dose , the glucuronide represents approximately 11 % of the measured radioactivity in plasma .
The cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are not involved in the metabolism of telmisartan .
Elimination : Following either intravenous or oral administration of 14 C - labeled telmisartan , most of the administered dose ( > 97 % ) was eliminated unchanged in feces via biliary excretion ; only minute amounts were found in the urine ( 0 . 91 % and 0 . 49 % of total radioactivity , respectively ) .
Total plasma clearance of telmisartan is > 800 mL / min .
Terminal half - life and total clearance appear to be independent of dose .
Hydrochlorothiazide Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidney .
When plasma levels have been followed for at least 24 hours , the plasma half - life has been observed to vary between 5 . 6 and 14 . 8 hours .
At least 61 % of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the blood - brain barrier and is excreted in breast milk .
Specific Populations Telmisartan Renal Insufficiency : Telmisartan is not removed from blood by hemofiltration [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) , and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 7 ) ] .
Hepatic Insufficiency : In patients with hepatic insufficiency , plasma concentrations of telmisartan are increased , and absolute bioavailability approaches 100 % [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 6 ) ] .
Gender : Plasma concentrations of telmisartan are generally 2 to 3 times higher in females than in males .
In clinical trials , however , no significant increases in blood pressure response or in the incidence of orthostatic hypotension were found in women .
No dosage adjustment is necessary .
Geriatric Patients : The pharmacokinetics of telmisartan do not differ between the elderly and those younger than 65 years of age .
Drug Interaction Studies Telmisartan Ramipril : Co - administration of telmisartan 80 mg once daily and ramipril 10 mg once daily to healthy subjects increases steady - state Cmax and AUC of ramipril 2 . 3 - and 2 . 1 - fold , respectively , and Cmax and AUC of ramiprilat 2 . 4 - and 1 . 5 - fold , respectively .
In contrast , Cmax and AUC of telmisartan decrease by 31 % and 16 % , respectively .
When co - administering telmisartan and ramipril , the response may be greater because of the possibly additive pharmacodynamic effects of the combined drugs , and also because of the increased exposure to ramipril and ramiprilat in the presence of telmisartan .
Other Drugs : Co - administration of telmisartan did not result in a clinically significant interaction with acetaminophen , amlodipine , glyburide , simvastatin , hydrochlorothiazide , warfarin , or ibuprofen .
Telmisartan is not metabolized by the cytochrome P450 system and had no effects in vitro on cytochrome P450 enzymes , except for some inhibition of CYP2C19 .
Telmisartan is not expected to interact with drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 enzymes ; it is also not expected to interact with drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes , except for possible inhibition of the metabolism of drugs metabolized by CYP2C19 .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide No carcinogenicity , mutagenicity , or fertility studies have been conducted with the combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide .
Telmisartan There was no evidence of carcinogenicity when telmisartan was administered in the diet to mice and rats for up to 2 years .
The highest doses administered to mice ( 1000 mg / kg / day ) and rats ( 100 mg / kg / day ) are , on a mg / m2 basis , about 59 and 13 times , respectively , the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of telmisartan .
These same doses have been shown to provide average systemic exposures to telmisartan > 100 times and > 25 times , respectively , the systemic exposure in humans receiving the MRHD of telmisartan ( 80 mg / day ) .
Genotoxicity assays did not reveal any telmisartan - related effects at either the gene or chromosome level .
These assays included bacterial mutagenicity tests with Salmonella and E . coli ( Ames ) , a gene mutation test with Chinese hamster V79 cells , a cytogenetic test with human lymphocytes , and a mouse micronucleus test .
No drug - related effects on the reproductive performance of male and female rats were noted at 100 mg / kg / day ( the highest dose administered ) , about 13 times , on a mg / m2 basis , the MRHD of telmisartan .
This dose in the rat resulted in an average systemic exposure ( telmisartan AUC as determined on day 6 of pregnancy ) at least 50 times the average systemic exposure in humans at the MRHD ( 80 mg / day ) .
Hydrochlorothiazide Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of up to approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) assay , in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assay , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to mating and throughout gestation .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide In controlled clinical trials with more than 2500 hypertensive patients , 1017 patients were exposed to telmisartan ( 20 mg to 160 mg ) and concomitant hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 mg to 25 mg ) .
These trials included one factorial trial ( Study 1 ) with combinations of telmisartan ( 20 mg , 40 mg , 80 mg , 160 mg , or placebo ) and hydrochlorothiazide ( 6 . 25 mg , 12 . 5 mg , 25 mg , and placebo ) .
The factorial trial randomized 818 patients , including 493 ( 60 % ) males ; 596 ( 73 % ) Non - Black and 222 ( 27 % ) Blacks ; and 143 ( 18 % ) ≥ 65 years of age ( median age was 53 years old ) .
The mean supine blood pressure at baseline for the total population was 154 / 101 mmHg .
The combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide resulted in additive placebo - adjusted decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures at trough of 16 to 21 / 9 to 11 mmHg for doses between 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 25 mg , compared with 9 to 13 / 7 to 8 mmHg for telmisartan 40 mg to 80 mg monotherapy and 4 / 4 mmHg for hydrochlorothiazide 12 . 5 mg monotherapy .
The antihypertensive effect was independent of age or gender .
There was essentially no change in heart rate in patients treated with the combination of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in the placebo - controlled trial .
Four other studies of hypertensive patients of at least six months ’ duration allowed add - on of hydrochlorothiazide for patients who either were not adequately controlled on the randomized telmisartan monotherapy dose or had not achieved adequate blood pressure response after completing the up - titration of telmisartan .
In active - controlled studies , the addition of 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to titrated doses of telmisartan in patients who did not achieve or maintain adequate response with telmisartan monotherapy further reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressures .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , USP are available in three strengths as 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg , 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 25 mg .
40 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L199 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
NDC 62332 - 209 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 62332 - 209 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 62332 - 209 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one pink color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L200 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains pink color specks .
NDC 62332 - 210 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 62332 - 210 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 62332 - 210 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) 80 mg / 25 mg : Oblong shaped , biconvex , bilayered , uncoated tablets with one white to off white color layer and one yellow color mottled layer debossed with ‘ L201 ’ .
White to off white color layer may contains yellow color specks .
NDC 62332 - 211 - 30 bottle of 30 units NDC 62332 - 211 - 91 bottle of 1000 units NDC 62332 - 211 - 10 100 Tablets ( i . e . ; 10 blister cards of 10 tablets each ) Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Tablets should not be removed from blisters or bottles until immediately before administration .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise the patient to read the FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
Pregnancy Advise female patients of childbearing age about the consequences of exposure to telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets during pregnancy .
Discuss treatment options with women planning to become pregnant .
Tell patients to report pregnancies to their physicians as soon as possible [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) and Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 1 ) ] .
Lactation Advise nursing women not to breastfeed during treatment with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets [ see Use in Specific Populations ( 8 . 2 ) ] .
Symptomatic Hypotension and Syncope Advise patients that lightheadedness can occur , especially during the first days of therapy , and to report it to their healthcare provider .
Inform patients that inadequate fluid intake , excessive perspiration , diarrhea , or vomiting can lead to an excessive fall in blood pressure , with the same consequences of lightheadedness and possible syncope .
Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider if syncope occurs [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] .
Potassium Supplements Advise patients not to use potassium supplements or salt substitutes that contain potassium without consulting the prescribing healthcare provider [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Drug Interactions ( 7 . 1 ) ] .
Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma Advise patients to discontinue telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and seek immediate medical attention if they experience symptoms of Acute Myopia or Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ] .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Panelav 389350 , Gujarat , India Manufactured for : Alembic Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 , USA Revised : 07 / 2021 Patient Information Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide ( TEL - mi - SAR - tan and HYE - droe - KLOR - oh - THYE - a - zide ) Tablets Read this Patient Information before you start taking telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This information does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause harm or death to an unborn baby .
Talk to your doctor about other ways to lower your blood pressure if you plan to become pregnant .
If you get pregnant while taking telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , tell your doctor right away .
What are telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets are a prescription medicine used to treat high blood pressure ( hypertension ) .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet contains : • telmisartan , an angiotensin receptor blocker ( ARB ) • hydrochlorothiazide , a water pill or diuretic Your doctor may prescribe other medicines for you to take along with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets to treat your high blood pressure .
It is not known if telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet is safe and effective in children .
Do not take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets if you : • have low or no urine output • are allergic ( hypersensitive ) to the active ingredients ( telmisartan or hydrochlorothiazide ) or any of the other ingredients listed at the end of this leaflet What should I tell my doctor before using telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Before you take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , tell your doctor if you : • are pregnant or are planning to become pregnant .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? ”
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide can pass into your breast milk and may harm your baby .
You and your doctor should decide if you will take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets or breast - feed .
You should not do both .
Talk with your doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• have been told that you have abnormal body salt ( electrolytes ) levels in your blood • have liver problems • have asthma or history of asthma • have lupus • have diabetes • have kidney problems • have any other medical conditions Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and non - prescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Also , tell your doctor if you drink alcohol .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may affect the way other medicines work , and other medicines may affect how telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets works .
Especially tell your doctor if you take : • aliskiren • digoxin ( Lanoxin ® ) • lithium ( Lithobid ® , lithium carbonate , lithium citrate ) • other medicines used to treat your high blood pressure or a heart problem • water pills ( diuretic ) • aspirin or other non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) • potassium supplements or a salt substitute containing potassium • medicine used to treat diabetes , including insulin • narcotic pain medicines • sleeping pills • steroid medicine or Adrenocorticotrophic Hormone ( ACTH ) • barbiturates • certain cholesterol lowering medicines ( resins that are used for cholesterol reduction , e . g . , cholestyramine and colestipol resins ) Ask your doctor if you are not sure if you are taking one of the medicines listed above .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your doctor or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
• Take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor will tell you how much telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets to take and when to take it .
• Do not change your dose unless your doctor tells you to .
• Take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablet once each day .
• Take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets with or without food .
• If you take too much telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets , call your doctor , or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• Read the “ How to open the blister ” at the end of this leaflet before you use telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Talk with your doctor if you do not understand the instructions .
What are the possible side effects of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may cause serious side effects , including : • Injury or death to your unborn baby .
See “ What is the most important information I should know about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ? ”
• Low blood pressure ( hypotension ) is most likely to happen if you also : • take water pills ( diuretics ) • are on a low - salt diet • get dialysis treatments • have heart problems • get sick with vomiting or diarrhea • do not drink enough fluids • sweat a lot If you feel faint or dizzy , lie down and call your doctor right away .
• Kidney problems , which may get worse if you already have kidney disease .
You may have changes in your kidney test results , and you may need a lower dose of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Call your doctor if you get : • swelling in your feet , ankles , or hands • unexplained weight gain Call your doctor right away if you get any of the symptoms listed above .
• Liver problems , which may get worse in people who already have liver problems and take telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• Eye problems .
One of the medicines in telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can cause eye problems that may lead to vision loss .
Symptoms of eye problems can happen within hours to weeks of starting telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Tell your doctor right away if you have : • decrease in vision • eye pain • Allergic reactions .
Tell your doctor right away if you get any of these symptoms : • swelling of the face , tongue , throat • difficulty breathing • Worsening of lupus .
Tell your doctor if your lupus gets worse or becomes active while taking telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
• Change in body salts ( electrolytes ) level in your blood and fluid problems .
Your doctor may do tests to check your blood .
Call your doctor right away if you have : • dry mouth • seizures • thirst • fast heartbeats • tiredness • weakness • sleepiness • muscle pain or cramps • restlessness • very low urine output • confusion • nausea or vomiting • Skin Cancer .
One of the medicines in telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets may increase your risk of getting non - melanoma skin cancer .
Protect your skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening when taking telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
The most common side effects of telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets include : • upper respiratory tract infections , including sinus pain / congestion and sore throat • dizziness • feeling tired • flu - like symptoms • back pain • diarrhea • nausea These are not all the possible side effects with telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
• Store telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets between 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 to 30 ° C ( 59 to 86 ° F ) .
• Do not remove telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets from blisters or bottles until right before you take them .
Keep telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets to other people , even if they have the same condition you have .
It may harm them .
This Patient Information leaflet summarizes the most important information about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets that is written for health professionals .
For more information call Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited at 1 - 866 - 210 - 9797 .
What are the ingredients in telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets ?
Active Ingredients : telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide Inactive Ingredients : mannitol , sodium hydroxide , meglumine , povidone , sodium stearyl fumarate , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate .
As coloring agents , the 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg and 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg tablets contain ferric oxide red , and the 80 mg / 25 mg tablets contain ferric oxide yellow .
What is high blood pressure ( hypertension ) ?
Blood pressure is the force in your blood vessels when your heart beats and when your heart rests .
You have high blood pressure when the force is too much .
Medicines that lower your blood pressure lower your chance of having a stroke or heart attack .
High blood pressure makes the heart work harder to pump blood through the body and causes damage to the blood vessels .
Telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide tablets can help your blood vessels relax so your blood pressure is lower .
How to open the blister : 1 .
Tear ( You may also use scissors to tear the blister apart ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 2 .
Peel ( Peel off the paper layer from the aluminum foil ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] 3 .
Push ( Push the tablet through the foil ) [ MULTIMEDIA ] This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
All brands mentioned are trademarks of their respective owners and are not trademarks of Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited .
Manufactured by : Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited ( Formulation Division ) , Panelav 389350 , Gujarat , India Manufactured for : Alembic Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Bedminster , NJ 07921 , USA Revised : 07 / 2021 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg NDC 62332 - 209 - 30 Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 40 mg / 12 . 5 mg Important : Moisture sensitive tablets - do not remove from bottle until immediately before administration .
Rx only 30 Tablets Alembic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg NDC 62332 - 210 - 30 Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 80 mg / 12 . 5 mg Important : Moisture sensitive tablets - do not remove from bottle until immediately before administration .
Rx only 30 Tablets Alembic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 80 mg / 25 mg NDC 62332 - 211 - 30 Telmisartan and Hydrochlorothiazide Tablets , USP 80 mg / 25 mg Important : Moisture sensitive tablets - do not remove from bottle until immediately before administration .
Rx only 30 Tablets Alembic [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
