[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] • Contraindications ( 4 ) 07 / 2016 • Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 , 5 . 5 , 5 . 6 ) 07 / 2016 1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % is an alpha adrenergic agonist indicated for the topical treatment of persistent ( nontransient ) erythema of rosacea in adults 18 years of age or older .
MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % is an alpha adrenergic agonist indicated for the topical treatment of persistent ( nontransient ) facial erythema of rosacea in adults 18 years of age or older .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply a pea - sized amount once daily to each of the five areas of the face : central forehead , chin , nose , each cheek .
MIRVASO topical gel should be applied smoothly and evenly as a thin layer across the entire face avoiding the eyes and lips .
Wash hands after applying MIRVASO topical gel .
MIRVASO topical gel is for topical use only and not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
• Apply a pea - sized amount once daily to each of the five areas of the face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) avoiding the eyes and lips .
( 2 ) • Hands should be washed immediately after applying MIRVASO topical gel .
( 2 ) • For topical use only ( 2 ) • Not for oral , ophthalmic , or intravaginal use .
( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % is a white to light yellow opaque aqueous gel .
Each gram of gel contains 5 mg of brimonidine tartrate , equivalent to 3 . 3 mg of brimonidine free base .
Gel , 0 . 33 % ; Each gram of gel contains 5 mg of brimonidine tartrate , equivalent to 3 . 3 mg of brimonidine free base .
( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS MIRVASO topical gel is contratindicated in patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to any component .
Reactions have included angioedema , urticaria , and contact dermatitis [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) and Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 ) ] .
Known hypersensitivity to any component of MIRVASO topical gel ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency ( 5 . 1 ) • Severe Cardiovascular Disease ( 5 . 2 ) • Serious Adverse Reactions Following Ingestion of MIRVASO topical gel ( 5 . 3 ) • Systemic Adverse Reactions of Alpha - 2 Adrenergic Agonists ( 5 . 4 ) • Local Vasomotor Adverse Reactions ( 5 . 5 ) • Hypersensitivity ( 5 . 6 ) 5 . 1 Potentiation of Vascular Insufficiency MIRVASO topical gel should be used with caution in patients with depression , cerebral or coronary insufficiency , Raynaud ’ s phenomenon , orthostatic hypotension , thrombangiitis obliterans , scleroderma , or Sjögren ’ s syndrome .
5 . 2 Severe Cardiovascular Disease Alpha - 2 adrenergic agonists can lower blood pressure .
MIRVASO topical gel should be used with caution in patients with severe or unstable or uncontrolled cardiovascular disease .
5 . 3 Serious Adverse Reactions Following Ingestion of MIRVASO topical gel Two young children of a subject in a clinical trial experienced serious adverse reactions following accidental ingestion of MIRVASO topical gel .
Adverse reactions experienced by one or both children included lethargy , respiratory distress with apneic episodes ( requiring intubation ) , sinus bradycardia , confusion , psychomotor hyperactivity , and diaphoresis .
Both children were hospitalized overnight and discharged the following day without sequelae .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel out of the reach of children .
5 . 4 Systemic Adverse Reactions of Alpha - 2 Adrenergic Agonists Postmarketing cases of bradycardia , hypotension ( including orthostatic hypotension ) and dizziness have been reported .
Some cases required hospitalization .
Some cases involved application of MIRVASO topical gel in unapproved dosing regimens and for unapproved indications , including the application of MIRVASO topical gel following laser procedures .
Avoid applying MIRVASO topical gel to irritated skin or open wounds .
5 . 5 Local Vasomotor Adverse Reactions Erythema Some subjects in the clinical trials discontinued use of MIRVASO topical gel because of erythema .
Some subjects in the clinical trials reported a rebound phenomenon , where erythema was reported to return worse compared to the severity at baseline .
Erythema appeared to resolve after discontinuation of MIRVASO topical gel .
[ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
The treatment effect of MIRVASO topical gel may begin to diminish hours after application .
From postmarketing reports , some patients have experienced erythema involving areas of the face that were previously not affected by erythema and in areas ( e . g . , neck and chest ) outside of the treatment sites .
Flushing Some subjects in the clinical trials discontinued use of MIRVASO topical gel because of flushing .
Intermittent flushing occurred in some subjects treated with MIRVASO topical gel in the clinical trials .
The onset of flushing relative to application of MIRVASO topical gel varied , ranging from approximately 30 minutes to several hours [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Flushing appeared to resolve after discontinuation of MIRVASO topical gel .
From postmarketing reports , some patients have experienced increased frequency of flushing and / or increased depth of erythema with the flushing .
Additionally , some patients reported new onset of flushing .
Pallor and Excessive Whitening From postmarketing reports , some patients have experienced pallor or excessive whitening at or outside the application site following treatment with MIRVASO topical gel .
5 . 6 Hypersensitivity Allergic contact dermatitis was reported in the clinical trials for MIRVASO topical gel [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 1 ) ] .
Events reported post marketing with the use of MIRVASO topical gel include angioedema , throat tightening , tongue swelling , and urticaria , [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6 . 2 ) ] .
Institute appropriate therapy and discontinue MIRVASO topical gel , if clinically significant hypersensitivity reaction occurs .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse drug reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label : • Systemic Adverse Reactions of Alpha - 2 Adrenergic Agonists [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) ] • Local Vasomotor Adverse Reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 5 ) ] • Hypersensitivity [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 6 ) ] In controlled clinical trials with MIRVASO topical gel the most common adverse reactions ( incidence > 1 % ) included erythema , flushing , skin burning sensation , and contact dermatitis .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Galderma Laboratories , L . P . at 1 - 866 - 735 - 4137 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice .
During clinical trials , 1210 subjects were exposed to MIRVASO topical gel .
A total of 833 subjects were treated for persistent ( nontransient ) erythema associated with rosacea , and 330 of those were treated once daily for 29 days in vehicle - controlled trials .
Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 1 % of subjects treated with MIRVASO topical gel once daily for 29 days and for which the rate for MIRVASO topical gel exceeded the rate for vehicle are presented in Table 1 .
Table 1 - Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials by at Least 1 % of Subjects Treated for 29 DaysPreferred Term MIRVASO Topical Gel ( N = 330 ) n ( % ) Vehicle Gel ( N = 331 ) n ( % ) Subjects with at least one adverse reaction , Number ( % ) of Subjects 109 ( 33 ) 91 ( 28 ) Erythema 12 ( 4 % ) 3 ( 1 % ) Flushing 9 ( 3 % ) 0 Skin burning sensation 5 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 1 % ) Dermatitis contact 3 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Dermatitis 3 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Skin warm 3 ( 1 % ) 0 Paraesthesia 2 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Acne 2 ( 1 % ) 1 ( < 1 % ) Pain of skin 2 ( 1 % ) 0 Vision blurred 2 ( 1 % ) 0 Nasal congestion 2 ( 1 % ) 0 Open - label , Long - term Study An open - label study of MIRVASO topical gel when applied once daily for up to one year was conducted in subjects with persistent ( nontransient ) facial erythema of rosacea .
Subjects were allowed to use other rosacea therapies .
A total of 276 subjects applied MIRVASO topical gel for at least one year .
The most common adverse events ( > 4 % of subjects ) for the entire study were flushing ( 10 % ) , erythema ( 8 % ) , rosacea ( 5 % ) , nasopharyngitis ( 5 % ) , skin burning sensation ( 4 % ) , increased intraocular pressure ( 4 % ) , and headache ( 4 % ) .
Allergic contact dermatitis Allergic contact dermatitis to MIRVASO topical gel was reported in approximately 1 % of subjects across the clinical development program .
Two subjects underwent patch testing with individual product ingredients .
One subject was found to be sensitive to brimonidine tartrate , and one subject was sensitive to phenoxyethanol ( a preservative ) .
6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post - approval use of MIRVASO topical gel .
Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Cardiovascular disorders : bradycardia , hypotension ( including orthostatic hypotension ) Immune system disorders : angioedema , hypersensitivity , lip swelling , swollen tongue , throat tightness , urticaria Nervous systemic disorders : dizziness Skin and subcutaneous disorders : pallor 7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7 . 1 Anti - hypertensives / Cardiac Glycosides Alpha - 2 agonists , as a class , may reduce blood pressure .
Caution in using drugs such as beta - blockers , anti - hypertensives and / or cardiac glycosides is advised .
7 . 2 CNS Depressants Although specific drug - drug interactions studies have not been conducted with MIRVASO topical gel , the possibility of an additive or potentiating effect with CNS depressants ( alcohol , barbiturates , opiates , sedatives , or anaesthetics ) should be considered .
7 . 3 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors Monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors may theoretically interfere with the metabolism of brimonidine and potentially result in an increased systemic side - effect such as hypotension .
Caution is advised in patients taking MAO inhibitors which can affect the metabolism and uptake of circulating amines .
8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies of MIRVASO topical gel in pregnant women .
In animal studies , brimonidine crossed the placenta and entered into the fetal circulation to a limited extent .
MIRVASO topical gel should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus .
Brimonidine tartrate was not teratogenic when given at oral doses up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day in pregnant rats during gestation days 6 through 15 and 5 mg / kg / day in pregnant rabbits during gestation days 6 through 18 .
8 . 3 Nursing Mothers It is not known whether brimonidine tartrate is excreted in human milk , although in animal studies , brimonidine tartrate has been shown to be excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions from MIRVASO topical gel in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Keep MIRVASO topical gel out of reach of children .
Serious adverse reactions were experienced by two children of a subject in a clinical trial who accidentally ingested MIRVASO topical gel [ See Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) ] .
Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use One hundred and five subjects aged 65 and older were included in clinical trials with MIRVASO topical gel .
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between subjects > 65 years of age and younger adult subjects .
Clinical studies of MIRVASO topical gel did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
10 OVERDOSAGE No information is available on overdose in adults with MIRVASO topical gel .
Oral overdoses of other alpha - 2 adrenergic agonists have been reported to cause symptoms such as hypotension , asthenia , vomiting , lethargy , sedation , bradycardia , arrhythmias , miosis , apnoea , hypotonia , hypothermia , respiratory depression , and seizure .
Treatment of an oral overdose includes supportive and symptomatic therapy ; a patent airway should be maintained .
11 DESCRIPTION MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % contains brimonidine tartrate , an alpha adrenergic agonist .
The molecular formula of brimonidine tartrate is C11H10BrN5 • C4H6O6 .
It has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Chemically , brimonidine tartrate is 5 - Bromo - 6 - ( 2 - imidazolidinylideneamino ) quinoxaline L - tartrate .
Brimonidine tartrate has a molecular weight of 442 . 24 and appears as white to slightly yellowish powder .
Each gram of MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % contains 5 mg of the active ingredient brimonidine tartrate ( equivalent to 3 . 3 mg of brimonidine free base ) , in a white to light yellow opaque gel composed of the inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer type B , glycerin , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium hydroxide , and titanium dioxide .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Brimonidine is a relatively selective alpha - 2 adrenergic agonist .
Topical application of MIRVASO topical gel may reduce erythema through direct vasoconstriction .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption The absorption of brimonidine from MIRVASO topical gel was evaluated in a clinical trial in 24 adult subjects with facial erythema associated with rosacea .
All enrolled subjects received once daily topical application of MIRVASO topical gel 1 gram to the entire face for 29 days .
Pharmacokinetic assessments were performed on Day 1 , Day 15 , and Day 29 .
The mean plasma maximum concentration ( Cmax ) and area under the concentration - time curve ( AUC ) were highest on Day 15 , with Cmax and AUC values ( ± standard deviation ) of 46 ± 62 pg / mL and 417 ± 264 pg . hr / mL , respectively .
The systemic drug exposure was slightly lower on Day 29 indicating no further drug accumulation .
Metabolism Brimonidine is extensively metabolized by the liver .
Excretion Urinary excretion is the major route of elimination of brimonidine and its metabolites .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis In a 21 - month oral ( diet ) mouse carcinogenicity study and a 24 - month oral ( diet ) rat carcinogenicity study , no drug - related neoplasms were observed in mice at oral doses of brimonidine tartrate up to 2 . 5 mg / kg / day or in rats at oral doses of brimonidine tartrate up to 1 mg / kg / day .
In a dermal rat carcinogenicity study with MIRVASO topical gel , brimonidine tartrate was administered to Wistar rats at topical doses of 0 . 9 ( 0 . 03 % gel ) , 1 . 8 ( 0 . 06 % gel ) , and 5 . 4 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 18 % gel ) in males and 5 . 4 ( 0 . 18 % gel ) , 30 ( 1 % gel ) during Days 1 - 343 / 10 . 8 ( 0 . 36 % gel ) thereafter , and 60 ( 2 % gel ) during Days 1 - 343 / 21 . 6 mg / kg / day ( 0 . 72 % gel ) thereafter in females once daily for 24 months .
No drug - related neoplasms were observed in this study .
In a 12 - month dermal photo - carcinogenicity study , topical doses of 0 % ( MIRVASO topical gel vehicle ) , 0 . 18 % , 1 % and 2 % brimonidine tartrate gel were administered to hairless albino mice once daily , five days per week , with concurrent exposure to simulated sunlight .
No drug - related adverse effects were observed in this study .
The results of this study suggest that topical treatment with MIRVASO topical gel would not enhance photo - carcinogenesis .
Mutagenesis Brimonidine tartrate was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies , including the Ames test , a chromosomal aberration assay in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells , and three studies in CD1 mice ( a host - mediated assay , a cytogenetic study , and a dominant lethal assay ) .
Impairment of Fertility Reproduction and fertility studies in rats with brimonidine tartrate demonstrated no adverse effects on male or female fertility at oral doses up to 1 mg / kg / day .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES MIRVASO topical gel was evaluated for the treatment of moderate to severe , persistent ( nontransient ) facial erythema of rosacea in two randomized , double - blind , vehicle - controlled clinical trials , which were identical in design .
The trials were conducted in 553 subjects aged 18 years and older who were treated once daily for 4 weeks with either MIRVASO topical gel or vehicle .
Overall , 99 % of subjects were Caucasian and 76 % were female .
Baseline disease severity was graded using a 5 - point Clinical Erythema Assessment ( CEA ) scale and a 5 - point Patient Self Assessment ( PSA ) scale , on which subjects scored either “ moderate ” or “ severe ” on both scales .
The primary efficacy endpoint in both pivotal trials was 2 - grade Composite Success , defined as the proportion of subjects with a 2 - grade improvement on both CEA and PSA measured at hours 3 , 6 , 9 , and 12 on Day 29 .
Table 2 presents the efficacy results .
In addition to Day 29 , efficacy was evaluated on Day 15 and Day 1 , and the results are presented in Figures 1 and 2 for Studies 1 and 2 , respectively .
Table 2 : Summary of 2 - grade Composite Success on Day 29 Success Study 1 Study 2 MIRVASO Topical Gel ( N = 129 ) Vehicle Gel ( N = 131 ) MIRVAO Topical Gel ( N = 148 ) Vehicle Gel ( N = 145 ) Hour 3 31 % 11 % 25 % 9 % Hour 6 30 % 10 % 25 % 9 % Hour 9 26 % 10 % 18 % 11 % Hour 12 23 % 9 % 22 % 10 % 2 - grade Composite Success : 2 - grade improvement on CEA and 2 - grade improvement on PSA .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] 16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING MIRVASO ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % is a white to light yellow opaque gel , supplied in a laminated tube or pump with a child resistant cap in the following sizes : 30 gram tube NDC 0299 - 5980 - 30 30 gram pump NDC 0299 - 5980 - 35 45 gram tube NDC 0299 - 5980 - 45 Store at 20 ° C to 25 ° C ( 68 ° F to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° C and 30 ° C ( 59 ° F and 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information and Instructions for Use ) Patients using MIRVASO topical gel should receive the following information and instructions : • This medication is to be used as directed by the physician .
• It is for external use only .
• MIRVASO topical gel should not be applied to irritated skin or open wounds .
• Avoid contact with the eyes and lips .
• Patients should wash their hands immediately after applying the medication .
• Some patients using MIRVASO topical gel may experience erythema , flushing or excessive whitening .
• Patients should report any adverse reactions to their physician .
• Keep out of reach of children .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Fort Worth , Texas 76177 USA Made in Canada .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
P52849 - 2 or P51217 - 3 PATIENT INFORMATION MIRVASO ( Mer - VAY - soe ) ( brimonidine ) topical gel Important information : MIRVASO ® topical gel is for use on the face only .
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel out of the reach of children .
If anyone , especially a child , accidentally swallows MIRVASO topical gel , they may have serious side effects and need to be treated in a hospital .
Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows MIRVASO topical gel and has any of these symptoms : • lack of energy , trouble breathing or stops breathing , a slow heart beat , confusion , sweating , restlessness , muscle spasms , or twitching .
What is MIRVASO topical gel ?
MIRVASO topical gel is a prescription medicine that is used on your skin ( topical ) to treat facial redness due to rosacea that does not go away ( persistent ) in adults who are 18 years of age or older .
It is not known if MIRVASO topical gel is safe and effective in children .
Who should not use MIRVASO topical gel ?
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel if you have had a serious allergic reaction to any of the ingredients in MIRVASO topical gel .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a list of ingredients in MIRVASO topical gel .
See “ What are the possible side effects of MIRVASO topical gel ? ”
What should I tell my doctor before using MIRVASO topical gel ?
Before using MIRVASO topical gel , tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions including if you : • have depression • have heart or blood vessel problems • have dizziness or blood pressure problems • have problems with blood circulation or have had a stroke • have dry mouth or Sjögren ’ s Syndrome • have skin tightening or scleroderma • have Raynaud ’ s phenomenon • have irritated skin or open sores • plan to have any laser procedures • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if MIRVASO topical gel will harm your unborn baby .
• are breastfeeding .
It is not known if MIRVASO topical gel passes into your breast milk .
You and your doctor should decide if you will use MIRVASO topical gel or breastfeed .
You should not do both .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , skin products , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Using MIRVASO topical gel with certain other medicines may affect each other and can cause serious side effects .
How should I use MIRVASO topical gel ?
See the detailed Instructions for Use that comes with your MIRVASO topical gel tube or pump for information about how to apply MIRVASO topical gel correctly .
• Use MIRVASO topical gel exactly as your doctor tells you .
Do not use more MIRVASO topical gel than prescribed .
Call your doctor if you are not sure .
• You should not apply MIRVASO topical gel to irritated skin or open wounds .
• MIRVASO topical gel is for use on your skin only .
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Avoid contact with your lips and eyes .
What are the possible side effects of MIRVASO topical gel ?
MIRVASO topical gel may cause serious side effects , including : • See “ Important information ” at the beginning of this Patient Information leaflet .
• Problems with blood circulation .
People who use MIRVASO topical gel can have problems with blood circulation , including a slow heart rate , low blood pressure , and dizziness .
These problems may sometimes be serious and lead to hospitalization .
See “ What should I tell my doctor before using MIRVASO topical gel ? ”
• Serious allergic ( hypersensitivity ) reactions have happened in people who use MIRVASO topical gel .
Stop using MIRVASO topical gel and go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away if you have any of the following signs and symptoms of a serious allergic reaction including : o swelling of your face , lips , tongue , or throat o hives o trouble breathing The most common side effects of MIRVASO topical gel include : • redness • flushing • burning sensation of the skin • skin reactions ( contact dermatitis ) .
Skin redness is common after applying MIRVASO topical gel , and may be worse than before you applied it .
You may also develop redness on areas of your face that were not affected by rosacea , as well as on your neck and chest .
Skin flushing is common and may happen off and on after applying MIRVASO topical gel .
In some cases , the flushing may be new , may happen more often , or you may have increased redness with flushing .
Pale colored skin or very white skin ( excessive whitening ) can happen at or outside the treated area .
Tell your doctor if you get skin redness , flushing , and pale colored skin that is uncomfortable for you .
These are not all the possible side effects of MIRVASO topical gel .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
General information about the safe and effective use of MIRVASO topical gel Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about MIRVASO topical gel that is written for health professionals .
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give MIRVASO topical gel to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
What are the ingredients in MIRVASO topical gel ?
Active ingredient : brimonidine Inactive ingredients : carbomer homopolymer type B , glycerin , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium hydroxide , titanium dioxide .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Fort Worth , TX 76177 USA Made in Canada .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Revised : Nov 2017 Instructions for Use MIRVASO ( Mer - VAY - soe ) ( brimonidine ) topical geltube Important : MIRVASO ® topical gel is for use on the face only .
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel out of the reach of children .
If anyone , especially a child , accidentally swallows MIRVASO topical gel , they may have serious side effects and need to be treated in a hospital .
Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows MIRVASO topical gel and has any of these symptoms : • lack of energy , trouble breathing or stops breathing , a slow heart beat , confusion , sweating , restlessness , muscle spasms , or twitching .
Read and follow the steps below so that you use your tube of MIRVASO topical gel correctly : 1 .
Open the tube of MIRVASO topical gel by gently pressing down on the child resistant cap and twist in the direction of the arrow as shown below ( counterclockwise ) .
See Figures A and B . To avoid spilling , do not squeeze the tube while opening or closing .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B 2 .
To apply MIRVASO topical gel to your face , squeeze a pea - sized amount of MIRVASO topical gel from the tube onto your fingertip .
See Figure C . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C 3 .
Apply a pea - sized amount of MIRVASO topical gel onto each of the five areas of your face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) 1 time each day .
You will use a total of 5 pea - sized amounts of MIRVASO topical gel .
Spread the gel smoothly and evenly in a thin layer over your face .
Avoid contact with your eyes and lips .
Do not apply MIRVASO topical gel to irritated skin or open wounds .
4 .
To close your MIRVASO topical gel tube , place the cap back on the tube .
Gently press down on the child resistant cap and twist to the right ( clockwise ) .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D 5 .
Wash your hands right away after applying MIRVASO topical gel .
How should I store MIRVASO topical gel ?
• Store MIRVASO topical gel at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Fort Worth , TX 76177 USA Made in Canada .
Revised : October 2015 Instructions for Use MIRVASO ( Mer - VAY - soe ) ( brimonidine ) topical gelPump Important : MIRVASO ® topical gel is for use on the face only .
Do not use MIRVASO topical gel in your eyes , mouth , or vagina .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel out of the reach of children .
If anyone , especially a child , accidentally swallows MIRVASO topical gel , they may have serious side effects and need to be treated in a hospital .
Get medical help right away if you , a child , or anyone else swallows MIRVASO topical gel and has any of these symptoms : • lack of energy , trouble breathing or stops breathing , a slow heart beat , confusion , sweating , restlessness , muscle spasms , or twitching .
Read and follow the steps below so that you use your MIRVASO topical gel correctly : 1 .
Push the cap down and turn it counter - clockwise until the cap can be removed .
See Figures A and B .
The clear sticker will break when opening for the first time .
Note : when the cap is removed , the pump is not child - resistant .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure A [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure B [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure C Before the first use , prime the pump by pressing down several times until the medicine is dispensed onto your fingertip .
2 .
To apply MIRVASO topical gel to your face , dispense a pea - sized amount of MIRVASO topical gel from the pump onto your fingertip .
See Figure C . 3 .
Apply a pea - sized amount of MIRVASO topical gel onto each of the five areas of your face ( forehead , chin , nose , each cheek ) 1 time each day .
You will use a total of 5 pea - sized amounts of MIRVASO topical gel .
Spread the gel smoothly and evenly in a thin layer over your face .
Avoid contact with your eyes and lips .
Do not apply MIRVASO topical gel to irritated skin or open wounds .
4 .
To close your MIRVASO topical gel pump , place the cap back on the pump .
Push down and turn the cap to the right ( clockwise ) until it stops .
This pump is child - resistant again .
See Figure D . [ MULTIMEDIA ] Figure D 5 .
Wash your hands right away after applying MIRVASO topical gel .
How should I store MIRVASO topical gel ?
• Store MIRVASO topical gel at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep MIRVASO topical gel and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . , Fort Worth , TX 76177 USA , Made in Canada Issued : November 2017 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL 30 g Pump Carton [ MULTIMEDIA ] Rx Only NDC 0299 - 5980 - 35 Mirvaso ® ( brimonidine ) topical gel , 0 . 33 % * PUMP * Each gram of Mirvaso topical gel contains 5 mg of brimonidine tartrate , equivalent to 3 . 3 mg of brimonidine free base For Topical Use Only Keep Out of Reach of Children GALDERMA NET WT .
30 g Not for oral , ophthalmic or intravaginal use .
To Open Pump : Push the cap down while turning it counter - clockwise to remove the cap .
Usual Dosage : Apply a pea - size amount once daily to each of the five areas of the face ( forehead , chin , nose , and each cheek ) avoiding the eyes and lips .
See package insert for complete prescribing information .
Each gram contains the active ingredient brimonidine tartrate 5 mg with the inactive ingredients carbomer homopolymer type B , glycerin , methylparaben , phenoxyethanol , propylene glycol , purified water , sodium hydroxide , and titanium dioxide .
Storage : Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) , excursions permitted between 15 ° and 30 ° C ( 59 ° and 86 ° F ) .
[ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
See bottom of carton for lot number and expiration date .
All trademarks are the property of their respective owners .
Marketed by : GALDERMA LABORATORIES , L . P . Dallas , TX 75201 USA Made in Canada P52848 - 3
