Emergency Contraceptive One Tablet .
One Dose .
What You Need to Know What is EContra ® EZ ?
EContra ® EZ is emergency contraception that helps prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
It is a backup method of preventing pregnancy and should not be used as regular birth control .
What EContra ® EZ is not .
EContra ® EZ will not work if you are already pregnant and will not affect an existing pregnancy .
EContra ® EZ will not protect you from HIV infection ( the virus that causes AIDS ) and other sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) .
When should I use EContra ® EZ ?
The sooner you take emergency contraception , the better it works .
You should use EContra ® EZ within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after you have had unprotected sex .
EContra ® EZ is a backup or emergency method of birth control you can use when : • your regular birth control was used incorrectly or failed • you did not use any birth control method When not to use EContra ® EZ .
EContra ® EZ should not be used : • as a regular birth control method , because it ' s not as effective as regular birth control .
• if you are already pregnant , because it will not work .
• if you are allergic to levonorgestrel or any other ingredients in EContra ® EZ .
When should I talk to a doctor or pharmacist ?
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking efavirenz ( HIV medication ) or rifampin ( tuberculosis treatment ) or medication for seizures ( epilepsy ) .
These medications may reduce the effectiveness of EContra ® EZ and increase your chance of becoming pregnant .
Your doctor may prescribe another form of emergency contraception that may not be affected by these medications .
How does EContra ® EZ work ?
EContra ® EZ is one tablet with levonorgestrel , a hormone that has been used in many birth control pills for several decades .
EContra ® EZ contains a higher dose of levonorgestrel than birth control pills , but works in a similar way to prevent pregnancy .
It works mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary .
It is possible that EContra ® EZ may also work by preventing fertilization of an egg ( the uniting of sperm with the egg ) or by preventing attachment ( implantation ) to the uterus ( womb ) .
How can I get the best results from EContra ® EZ ?
You have 72 hours ( 3 days ) to try to prevent pregnancy after birth control failure or unprotected sex .
The sooner you take EContra ® EZ , the better it works .
How effective is EContra ® EZ ?
If EContra ® EZ is taken as directed , it can significantly decrease the chance that you will get pregnant .
About 7 out of every 8 women who would have gotten pregnant will not become pregnant .
How will I know EContra ® EZ worked ?
You will know EContra ® EZ has been effective when you get your next period , which should come at the expected time , or within a week of the expected time .
If your period is delayed beyond 1 week , it is possible you may be pregnant .
You should get a pregnancy test and follow up with your healthcare professional .
Will I experience any side effects ?
• some women may have changes in their period , such as a period that is heavier or lighter or a period that is early or late .
If your period is more than a week late , you may be pregnant .
• if you have severe abdominal pain , you may have an ectopic pregnancy , and should get immediate medical attention .
• when used as directed , EContra ® EZ is safe and effective .
Side effects may include changes in your period , nausea , lower stomach ( abdominal ) pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness , and breast tenderness .
• if you vomit within 2 hours of taking the medication , call a healthcare professional to find out if you should repeat the dose .
What if I still have questions about EContra ® EZ ?
If you have questions or need more information , call 1 - 855 - 888 - 2467 or go to www . afaxys . com , 24 hours a day / 7 days a week or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch Other Information Keep out of reach of children : In case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
Do not use if the blister seal is opened .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) .
Active ingredient : levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg Inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , magnesium stearate , povidone K - 25 .
If you are sexually active , you should see a healthcare provider for routine checkups .
Your healthcare provider will talk to you about and , if necessary , test you for sexually transmitted diseases , teach you about effective methods of routine birth control , and answer any other questions you may have .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Manufactured for : Afaxys Pharma LLC .
Charleston , SC , 29403 , USA .
Manufactured by : Mylan Laboratories Limited 200012782 - 000 REVISED : JANUARY 2018 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 50102 - 111 - 01 EMERGENCY CONTRACEPTION EContra ® EZ ( Levonorgestrel ) Tablet , 1 . 5 mg One Tablets Equals One Dose .
Reduces chance of pregnancy after unprotected sex .
The sooner you take it , the more effective it will be Take as soon as possible within 72 hours ( 3 days ) after unprotected sex Will not harm an existing pregnancy Not for regular birth control .
THIS PACKAGE IS NOT CHILD - RESISTANT 1 Tablet Levonorgestrel 1 . 5 mg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
