For Dermatologic Use Only Not For Ophthalmic Use Rx Only DESCRIPTION Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is a wide spectrum antibiotic preparation for topical administration .
Each gram of Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % contains Gentamicin Sulfate USP equivalent to 1 mg of gentamicin base in a cream base of isopropyl myristate , propylene glycol , propylene glycol monostearate , polysorbate 40 , purified water , sorbitol solution , and stearic acid , with methylparaben and butylparaben as preservatives .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Gentamicin Sulfate is a wide spectrum antibiotic that provides highly effective topical treatment in primary and secondary bacterial infections of the skin .
Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % may clear infections that have not responded to other topical antibiotic agents .
In primary skin infections such as impetigo contagiosa , treatment three or four times daily with Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % usually clears the lesions promptly .
In secondary skin infections , Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % aids in the treatment of the underlying dermatosis by controlling the infection .
Bacteria susceptible to the action of gentamicin sulfate include sensitive strains of Streptococci ( group A beta - hemolytic , alpha - hemolytic ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( coagulase positive , coagulase negative , and some penicillinase - producing strains ) , and the gram - negative bacteria , Pseudomonas aeruginosa , Aerobacter aerogenes , Escherichia coli , Proteus vulgaris and Klebsiella pneumoniae .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Primary skin infections : Impetigo contagiosa , superficial folliculitis , ecthyma , furunculosis , sycosis barbae , and pyoderma gangrenosum .
Secondary skin infections : Infectious eczematoid dermatitis , pustular acne , pustular psoriasis , infected seborrheic dermatitis , infected contact dermatitis ( including poison ivy ) , infected excoriations , and bacterial superinfections of fungal or viral infections .
Please Note : Gentamicin Sulfate is a bactericidal agent that is not effective against viruses or fungi in skin infections .
It is useful in the treatment of infected skin cysts and certain other skin abscesses when preceded by incision and drainage to permit adequate contact between the antibiotic and the infecting bacteria .
Good results have been obtained in the treatment of infected stasis and other skin ulcers , infected superficial burns , paronychia , infected insect bites and stings , infected lacerations and abrasions , and wounds from minor surgery .
Patients sensitive to neomycin can be treated with Gentamicin Sulfate , although regular observation of patients sensitive to topical antibiotics is advisable when such patients are treated with any topical antibiotic .
Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is recommended for wet , oozing primary infections , and greasy , secondary infections , such as pustular acne or infected seborrheic dermatitis .
Gentamicin sulfate ointment helps retain moisture and has been useful in infection on dry eczematous or psoriatic skin .
If a water - washable preparation is desired , the cream is preferable .
Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % has been used successfully in infants over one year of age , as well as in adults and children .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This drug product is contraindicated in individuals with a history of sensitivity to any of its components .
PRECAUTIONS The use of topical antibiotics occasionally allows overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms , including fungi .
If this occurs , or if irritation , sensitization , or superinfection develops , treatment with Gentamicin Sulfate should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
ADVERSE REACTIONS In patients with dermatoses treated with Gentamicin Sulfate , irritation ( erythema and pruritus ) that did not usually require discontinuance of treatment has been reported in a small percentage of cases .
There was no evidence of irritation or sensitization , however , in any of these patients patch - tested subsequently with Gentamicin Sulfate on normal skin .
Possible photosensitization has been reported in several patients but could not be elicited in these patients by reapplication of Gentamicin Sulfate followed by exposure to ultraviolet radiation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION A small amount of Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % should be applied gently to lesions three or four times a day .
The area treated may be covered with a gauze dressing if desired .
In impetigo contagiosa , the crusts should be removed before application of Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % to permit maximum contact between the antibiotic and the infection .
Care should be exercised to avoid further contamination of the infected skin .
Infected stasis ulcers have responded well to Gentamicin Sulfate under gelatin packing .
HOW SUPPLIED Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % is available as follows : 15 g tube ( NDC 45802 - 056 - 35 ) 30 g tube ( NDC 45802 - 056 - 11 ) STORAGE Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured By Perrigo Bronx , NY 10457 Distributed By Perrigo Allegan , MI 49010 ● www . perrigo . com Rev . 09 - 17 : 1A500 RC JX1 Principal Display Panel - 15 g Cream Carton Rx Only NDC 45802 - 056 - 35 Gentamicin Sulfate Cream USP , 0 . 1 % NET WT 15 g [ MULTIMEDIA ] The following image is a placeholder representing the product identifier that is either affixed or imprinted on the drug package label during the packaging operation .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
