BOTANICS DAY MOISTURE CREAM SUNSCREEN SPF 12 Active Ingredients Purpose Avobenzone 3 % Sunscreens Octinoxate 7 . 5 % Octisalate 2 . 5 % Uses • Provides moderate protection against the adverse effects of the sun .
• Higher SPF gives more protection .
Warnings For external use only .
When using this product keep out of eyes .
Rinse with water to remove .
Stop use and ask a doctor if rash or irritation develops and lasts .
Keep out of reach of children .
If swallowed , get medical help .
Directions • Gently massage onto face and neck .
• Apply evenly at least 15 minutes before sun exposure .
• Reapply as required .
• Not intended for children under the age of 12 .
• Not intended for protection while sunbathing .
Other information Do not store above 30 oC or 86 oF Inactive ingredients Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Butylene glycol , Caprylic / capric triglyceride , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , Dimethicone , Steareth - 21 , Mel ( Honey ) , Cetyl alcohol , Steareth - 2 , Polyacrylamide , Phenoxyethanol , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Hydrolyzed rice bran protein , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Sodium benzoate , Laureth - 7 , Propylparaben , Citric acid , Sodium chloride , Tetrasodium EDTA , Linalool , Benzyl salicylate , BHT , Sodium citrate , Hexyl cinnamal , Limonene , Hydroxycitronellal , Citronellol , Geraniol , Dipropylene glycol , Apha - isomethyl ionone , Ethylparaben , Butylparaben , Isobutylparaben , CI 19140 ( Yellow 5 ) .
USA Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS Plant extracts at levels that really work .
This rich , indulgent cream instantly hydrates then continues to top up the skin ' s natural moisture level for up to 12 hours .
With honey and rice extract to restore , plump and smooth your skin .
With UVA / UVB SPF12 protection to target skin ageing .
Dermatologically tested Mfd in the UK for Boots Beauty International Limited NG2 3 AA .
UK Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT 06901 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS www . boots . com ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Avobenzone 3 . 0 % , Octinoxate 7 . 5 % , Octisalate 2 . 5 % .
IN - ACTIVE INGREDIENTS : Aqua ( Water ) , Glycerin , Butylene glycol , Caprylic / capric triglyceride , PPG - 15 stearyl ether , Dimethicone , Steareth - 21 , Mel ( Honey ) , Cetyl alcohol , Steareth - 2 , Polyacrylamide , Phenoxyethanol , C13 - 14 isoparaffin , Hydrolyzed rice bran protein , Methylparaben , Parfum ( Fragrance ) , Sodium benzoate , Laureth - 7 , Propylparaben , Citric acid , Sodium chloride , Tetrasodium EDTA , Linalool , Benzyl salicylate , BHT , Sodium citrate , Hexyl cinnamal , Limonene , Hydroxycitronellal , Citronellol , Geraniol , Dipropylene glycol , Alpha - isomethyl ionone , Ethylparaben , Butylparaben , Isobutylparaben , CI 19140 ( Yellow 5 ) .
Mfd in the UK for BBI Ltd NG2 3 AA .
UK Dist in the USA by Boots Retail USA Inc .
Stamford CT 06901 USA : Questions ?
1 - 866 - 75 - BOOTS www . boots . com Plant extracts at levels that really work .
This rich , indulgent cream instantly hydrates then continues to top up the skin ' s natural moisture level for up to 12 hours .
With honey and rice extract to restore , plump and smooth your skin .
With UVA / UVB SPF12 protection to target premature skin ageing .
Dermatologically tested .
Directions : Use daily , alone or under make up , following your cleansing routine .
Massage onto skin using upward strokes .
Colour may vary due to natural extracts .
Warnings : Avoid contact with eyes .
May cause irritation .
If contact occurs , rinse immediately with cold water .
If irritation persists , consult your physician immediately .
Avoid direct contact with fabric .
The Power of Plants BOTANICS DAY MOISTURE CREAM Sunscreen SPF 12 With hydrating rice extract and honey to restore , plump and smooth your skin .
50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] The Power of Plants BOTANICS DAY MOISTURE CREAM Sunscreen SPF 12 With hydrating rice extract and honey .
50 ml e 1 . 69 US Fl .
Oz .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Colour may vary due to natural extracts .
