DESCRIPTION Nystatin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic drug obtained from Streptomyces nursei Nystatin Ointment USP , for topical use only , contains 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram , in an ointment base of light mineral oil and white petrolatum .
The structural formula is as follows : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Molecular Weight 926 . 13 Molecular Formula C47H75NO17 [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Pharmacokinetics Nystatin is not absorbed from intact skin or mucous membrane .
Microbiology Nystatin is an antibiotic which is both fungistatic and fungicidal in vitro against a wide variety of yeasts and yeast - like fungi , including Candida albicans , C . parapsilosis , C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . pseudotropicalis , C . krusei , Torulopsis glabrata , Tricophyton rubrum , T . mentagrophytes .
Nystatin acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible species resulting in a change in membrane permeability and the subsequent leakage of intracellular components .
On repeated subculturing with increasing concentrations of nystatin , Candida albicans does not develop resistance to nystatin . Generally , resistance to nystatin does not develop during therapy .
However , other species of 47 75 17 Candida ( C . tropicalis , C . guilliermondi , C . krusei , and C . stellatoides ) become quite resistant on treatment with nystatin and simultaneously become cross resistant to amphotericin as well .
This resistance is lost when the antibiotic is removed .
Nystatin exhibits no appreciable activity against bacteria , protozoa , or viruses .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Nystatin Ointment , is indicated in the treatment of cutaneous or mucocutaneous mycotic infections caused by Candida albicans and other susceptible Candida species .
Nystatin Ointment is not indicated for systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic use .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Nystatin Ointment is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to any of their components .
PRECAUTIONS General Nystatin Ointment should not be used for the treatment of systemic , oral , intravaginal or ophthalmic infections .
If irritation or sensitization develops , treatment should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken as indicated .
It is recommended that KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods be used to confirm the diagnosis of cutaneous or mucocutaneous candidiasis and to rule out infection caused by other pathogens .
INFORMATION FOR THE PATIENTS Patients using these medications should receive the following information and instructions : 1 .
The patient should be instructed to use these medications as directed ( including the replacement of missed doses ) .
These medications are not for any disorder other than that for which they are prescribed .
2 .
Even if symptomatic relief occurs within the first few days of treatment , the patient should be advised not to interrupt or discontinue therapy until the prescribed course of treatment is completed .
3 .
If symptoms of irritation develop , the patient should be advised to notify the physician promptly .
Laboratory Tests If there is a lack of therapeutic response , KOH smears , cultures , or other diagnostic methods should be repeated .
Carcinogenisis , Mutagenisis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of nystatin .
No studies have been performed to determine the mutagenicity of nystatin or its effects on male or female fertility .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with any nystatin topical preparation .
It also is not known whether these preparations can cause fetal harm when used by a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
Nystatin topical preparations should be prescribed for a pregnant woman only if the potential benefit to the mother outweighs the potential risk to the fetus .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether nystatin is excreted in human milk .
Caution should be exercised when nystatin is prescribed for a nursing woman .
Pediatric use Safety and effectiveness have been established in the pediatric population from birth to 16 years .
SeeDOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ADVERSE REACTIONS The frequency of adverse events reported in patients using Nystatin Ointment preparations is less than 0 . 1 % .
The more common events that were reported include allergic reactions , burning , itching , rash , eczema , and pain on application .
( SeePRECAUTIONS : General . )
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Macleods Pharma USA , Inc . , at 1 - 888 - 943 - 3210 or 1 - 855 - 926 - 338 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 ( www . fda . gov / medwatch ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION Nystatin Ointment Adults and Pediatric Patients ( Neonates and Older ) : Apply liberally to affected areas twice daily or as indicated until healing is complete .
HOW SUPPLIED Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) is a yellowish ointment available as follows : NDC 33342 - 481 - 15 15 gram tube NDC 33342 - 481 - 30 30 gram tube Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Macleods Pharma USA , Inc .
Princeton , NJ 08540 Manufacturer : Macleods Pharmaceuticals Limited At Oxalis Labs Baddi , Himachal Pradesh , INDIA Rev . 01 / 2021 PACKAGE LABEL . PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) Pack Count : 15 g Tube NDC 33342 - 481 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) Pack Count : 15 g Carton NDC 33342 - 481 - 15 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) Pack Count : 30 g Tube NDC 33342 - 481 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Nystatin Ointment ( 100 , 000 USP Nystatin Units per gram ) Pack Count : 30 g Carton NDC 33342 - 481 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
