Rx Only Disclaimer : This drug has not been found by FDA to be safe and effective , and this labeling has not been approved by FDA .
DESCRIPTION Sodium sulfacetamide is a sulfonamide with antibacterial activity while sulfur acts as a keratolytic agent .
Chemically sodium sulfacetamide is N - [ ( 4 - aminophenyl ) sulfonyl ] - acetamide , monosodium salt , monohydrate .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL of SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) contains 100 mg of Sulfacetamide Sodium , USP and 10 mg of Sulfur in a formulation consisting of : Aloe Barbadensis Leaf Juice , Butylated Hydroxy Toluene , Camellia Sinensis Leaf Extract , Cetyl Alcohol , Disodium Oleamido MEA Sulfosuccinate , Edetate Disodium , Glyceryl Stearate , Magnesium Aluminum Silicate , Methylparaben , PEG - 100 Stearate , Propylene Glycol , Propylparaben , Purified Water , Sodium Cocoyl Isethionate , Sodium Methyl Cocoyl Taurate , Sodium Thiosulfate , Stearyl Alcohol , White Petrolatum , Xanthan Gum .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most widely accepted mechanism of action of sulfonamides is the Woods - Fildes theory , which is based on the fact that sulfonamides act as competitive antagonists to para - aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) , an essential component for bacterial growth .
While absorption through intact skin has not been determined , sodium sulfacetamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract when taken orally and excreted in the urine , largely unchanged .
The biological half - life has variously been reported as 7 to 12 . 8 hours .
The exact mode of action of sulfur in the treatment of acne is unknown , but it has been reported that it inhibits the growth of Propionibacterium acnes and the formation of free fatty acids .
INDICATIONS SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) is indicated for the topical control of acne vulgaris , acne rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis .
CONTRAINDICATIONS SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) is contraindicated for use by patients having known hypersensitivity to sulfonamides , sulfur or any other component of this preparation .
SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) is not to be used by patients with kidney disease .
WARNINGS Although rare , sensitivity to sodium sulfacetamide may occur .
Therefore , caution and careful supervision should be observed when prescribing this drug for patients who may be prone to hypersensitivity to topical sulfonamides .
Systemic toxic reactions such as agranulocytosis , acute hemolytic anemia , purpura hemorrhagica , drug fever , jaundice , and contact dermatitis indicate hypersensitivity to sulfonamides .
Particular caution should be employed if areas of denuded or abraded skin are involved .
FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY .
Keep away from eyes .
Keep out of reach of children .
Keep container tightly closed .
PRECAUTIONS General If irritation develops , use of the product should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted .
Patients should be carefully observed for possible local irritation or sensitization during long - term therapy .
The object of this therapy is to achieve desquamation without irritation , but sodium sulfacetamide and sulfur can cause reddening and scaling of the epidermis .
These side effects are not unusual in the treatment of acne vulgaris , but patients should be cautioned about the possibility .
Information for Patients Avoid contact with eyes , eyelids , lips and mucous membranes .
If accidental contact occurs , rinse with water .
If excessive irritation develops , discontinue use and consult your physician .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis and Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
PREGNANCY Category C Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) .
It is also not known whether SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
NURSING MOTHERS It is not known whether sodium sulfacetamide is excreted in the human milk following topical use of SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) .
However , small amounts of orally administered sulfonamides have been reported to be eliminated in human milk .
In view of this and because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) is administered to a nursing woman .
PEDIATRIC USE Safety and effectiveness in children under the age of 12 has not been established .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although rare , sodium sulfacetamide may cause local irritation .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Apply SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) once or twice daily to affected areas , or as directed by your physician .
Wet skin and liberally apply to areas to be cleansed .
Massage gently into skin for 10 - 20 seconds , working into a full lather , rinse thoroughly and pat dry .
If drying occurs , it may be controlled by rinsing off SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) sooner or using less often .
HOW SUPPLIED SSS 10 - 1 Cleanser ( Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % ) is available in a 6 oz .
( 170 . 1 g ) tube , NDC 42546 - 174 - 06 .
Store at 20 째 C to 25 째 C ( 68 째 F to 77 째 F ) Protect from freezing .
KEEP THIS AND ALL MEDICATIONS OUT OF THE REACH OF CHILDREN .
Manufactured for : PruGen Pharmaceuticals Scottsdale , AZ 85255 Rev . 1 . 0 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 170 . 1 g Tube Carton SSS 10 - 1 cleanser Sodium Sulfacetamide 10 % & Sulfur 1 % Rx only Net Wt .
6 oz ( 170 . 1 g ) NDC 42546 - 174 - 06 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
