Gabapentin ( gab '' a pen ' tin ) Capsules What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin capsules ?
Do not stop taking gabapentin capsules without first talking to your healthcare provider .
Stopping gabapentin capsules suddenly can cause serious problems .
Gabapentin capsules can cause serious side effects including : 1 .
Suicidal Thoughts .
Like other antiepileptic drugs , gabapentin capsules may cause suicidal thoughts or actions in a very small number of people , about 1 in 500 .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of these symptoms , especially if they are new , worse , or worry you : · thoughts about suicide or dying · attempts to commit suicide · new or worse depression · new or worse anxiety · feeling agitated or restless · panic attacks · trouble sleeping ( insomnia ) · new or worse irritability · acting aggressive , being angry , or violent · acting on dangerous impulses · an extreme increase in activity and talking ( mania ) · other unusual changes in behavior or mood How can I watch for early symptoms of suicidal thoughts and actions ?
· Pay attention to any changes , especially sudden changes , in mood , behaviors , thoughts , or feelings .
· Keep all follow - up visits with your healthcare provider as scheduled .
Call your healthcare provider between visits as needed , especially if you are worried about symptoms .
Do not stop taking gabapentin capsules without first talking to a healthcare provider .
· Stopping gabapentin capsules suddenly can cause serious problems .
Stopping a seizure medicine suddenly in a patient who has epilepsy can cause seizures that will not stop ( status epilepticus ) .
· Suicidal thoughts or actions can be caused by things other than medicines .
If you have suicidal thoughts or actions , your healthcare provider may check for other causes .
2 .
Changes in behavior and thinking - Using gabapentin capsules in children 3 to 12 years of age can cause emotional changes , aggressive behavior , problems with concentration , restlessness , changes in school performance , and hyperactivity .
3 .
Gabapentin capsules may cause a serious or life - threatening allergic reaction that may affect your skin or other parts of your body such as your liver or blood cells .
This may cause you to be hospitalized or to stop gabapentin capsule .
You may or may not have a rash with an allergic reaction caused by gabapentin capsule .
Call a healthcare provider right away if you have any of The following symptoms : · skin rash · hives · difficulty breathing · fever · swollen glands that do not go away · swelling of your face , lips , throat or tongue · yellowing of your skin or of the whites of the eyes · unusual bruising or bleeding · severe fatigue or weakness · unexpected muscle pain · frequent infections These symptoms may be the first signs of a serious reaction .
A healthcare provider should examine you to decide if you should continue taking gabapentin capsules .
What are gabapentin capsules ?
Gabapentin capsules are a prescription medicine used to treat : · Pain from damaged nerves ( postherpetic pain ) that follows healing of shingles ( a painful rash that comes after a herpes zoster infection ) in adults .
· Partial seizures when taken together with other medicines in adults and children 3 years of age and older with seizures .
Who should not take gabapentin capsules ?
Do not take gabapentin capsules if you are allergic to gabapentin or any of the other ingredients in gabapentin capsules .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in gabapentin capsules .
What should I tell my healthcare provider before taking gabapentin capsules ?
Before taking gabapentin capsules , tell your healthcare provider if you : · have or have had kidney problems or are on hemodialysis · have or have had depression , mood problems , or suicidal thoughts or behavior · have diabetes · are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if gabapentin capsules can harm your unborn baby .
Tell your healthcare provider right away if you become pregnant while taking gabapentin capsules .
You and your healthcare provider will decide if you should take gabapentin capsules while you are pregnant .
o Pregnancy Registry : If you become pregnant while taking gabapentin capsules , talk to your healthcare provider about registering with the North American Antiepileptic Drug ( NAAED ) Pregnancy Registry .
The purpose of this registry is to collect information about the safety of antiepileptic drugs during pregnancy .
You can enroll in this registry by calling 1 - 888 - 233 - 2334 .
· are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Gabapentin capsules can pass into breast milk .
You and your healthcare provider should decide how you will feed your baby while you take gabapentin capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take , including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Taking gabapentin capsules with certain other medicines can cause side effects or affect how well they work .
Do not start or stop other medicines without talking to your healthcare provider .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them and show it to your healthcare provider and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take gabapentin capsules ?
· Take gabapentin capsules exactly as prescribed .
Your healthcare provider will tell you how much gabapentin capsules to take .
o Do not change your dose of gabapentin capsules without talking to your healthcare provider .
o Take gabapentin capsules with water .
· Gabapentin capsules can be taken with or without food .
If you take an antacid containing aluminum and magnesium , such as Maalox ® , Mylanta ® , Gelusil ® , Gaviscon ® , or Di - Gel ® , you should wait at least 2 hours before taking your next dose of gabapentin capsules .
If you take too much gabapentin capsules , call your healthcare provider or your local Poison Control Center right away at 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 .
What should I avoid while taking gabapentin capsules ?
· Do not drink alcohol or take other medicines that make you sleepy or dizzy while taking gabapentin capsules without first talking with your healthcare provider .
Taking gabapentin capsules with alcohol or drugs that cause sleepiness or dizziness may make your sleepiness or dizziness worse .
· Do not drive , operate heavy machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how gabapentin capsules affects you .
Gabapentin capsules can slow your thinking and motor skills .
What are the possible side effects of gabapentin capsules ?
Gabapentin capsules may cause serious side effects including : See “ What is the most important information I should know about gabapentin capsules ? ”
· problems driving while using gabapentin capsules .
See “ What I should avoid while taking gabapentin capsules ? ”
· sleepiness and dizziness which could increase the occurrence of accidental injury , including falls · The most common side effects of gabapentin capsules include : · lack of coordination • feeling tired · viral infection • fever · feeling drowsy • jerky movements · nausea and vomiting • difficulty with coordination · difficulty with speaking • double vision · tremor • unusual eye movement · swelling , usually of legs and feet Tell your healthcare provider if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all the possible side effects of gabapentin capsules .
For more information , ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to Time Cap Laboratories 1 877 290 - 4008 and / or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store gabapentin capsules ?
· Store gabapentin capsules between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep gabapentin capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of gabapentin capsules Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use gabapentin capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give gabapentin capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about gabapentin capsules .
If you would like more information , talk with your healthcare provider .
You can ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for information about gabapentin capsules that was written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in gabapentin capsules ?
Active ingredient : gabapentin , USP Inactive ingredients in the capsules : lactose monohydrate , corn starch , and talc .
The 300 mg capsule shell contains gelatin , titanium dioxide , and yellow iron oxide .
This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Rx only Manufactured for : Time - Cap - Labs , INC , 7 Michael Avenue , Farmingdale , NY 11735 , USA Manufactured by : Marksans Pharma Ltd .
Plot No .
L - 82 , L - 83 , Verna Indl .
Estate , Verna , Goa - 403 722 , India Rev . 11 / 17 Repackaged by Preferred Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
HOW SUPPLIED 100 mg Capsules ( White / White colored , size ' 3 ' hard gelatin capsules with " 103 " printed on body of capsules containing white to off white granular powder ) Bottles of 100 & 500 HOW SUPPLIED 300 mg Capsules ( Yellow / Yellow colored , size ' 1 ' hard gelatin capsules with " 104 " printed on body of capsules containing white to off white granular powder ) Bottles of : • Bottle 20 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 02 Bottle 28 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 04 Bottle 30 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 03 Bottle 60 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 06 Bottle 90 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 09 Bottle 100 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 00 Bottle 120 NDC 68788 - 7038 - 08 300 mg Gabapentin Capsule Package Labels [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
