Rx only DESCRIPTION : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Suspension USP is a multiple dose anti - infective steroid combination in a sterile suspension for topical application .
The active ingredient , Dexamethasone , is represented by the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] C22H29FO5 Mol .
Wt .
392 . 47 Chemical Name : Pregna - 1 , 4 - diene - 3 , 20 - dione , 9 - fluoro - 11 , 17 , 21 - trihydroxy - 16 - methyl - , ( 11β , 16α ) - .
Neomycin Sulfate is the sulfate salt of neomycin B and C which are produced by the growth of Streptomyces fradiae Waksman ( Fam .
Streptomycetaceae ) .
It has a potency equivalent to not less than 600 micrograms of neomycin base per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Polymyxin B Sulfate is the sulfate salt of polymyxin B1 and B2 which are produced by the growth of Bacillus polymyxa ( Prazmowski ) Migula ( Fam .
Bacillaceae ) .
It has a potency of not less than 6 , 000 polymyxin B units per milligram , calculated on an anhydrous basis .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each mL Contains : ACTIVES : Neomycin Sulfate ( equivalent to 3 . 5 mg Neomycin ) , Polymyxin B Sulfate equal to 10 , 000 polymyxin B units , Dexamethasone 1 mg ( 0 . 1 % ) ; INACTIVES : Sodium Chloride , Hypromellose , Polysorbate 20 , Purified Water .
Hydrochloric Acid and / or Sodium Hydroxide may be added to adjust pH ( 3 . 5 – 6 . 0 ) .
PRESERVATIVE ADDED : Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 004 % [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Corticoids suppress the inflammatory response to a variety of agents and they probably delay or slow the healing .
Since corticoids may inhibit the body ’ s defense mechanism against infection , a concomitant antimicrobial drug may be used when this inhibition is considered to be clinically significant in a particular case .
When a decision to administer both a corticoid and an antimicrobial is made , the administration of such drugs in combination has the advantage of greater patient compliance and convenience , with the added assurance that the appropriate dosage of both drugs is administered , plus assured compatibility of ingredients when both types of drugs are in the same formulation and , particularly , that the correct volume of drug is delivered and retained .
The relative potency of corticosteroids depends on the molecular structure , concentration , and release from the vehicle .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : For steroid - responsive inflammatory ocular conditions for which a corticosteroid is indicated and where bacterial infection or a risk of bacterial ocular infection exists .
Ocular steroids are indicated in inflammatory conditions of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva , cornea , and anterior segment of the globe where the inherent risk of steroid use in certain infective conjunctivitis is accepted to obtain a diminution in edema and inflammation .
They are also indicated in chronic anterior uveitis and corneal injury from chemical , radiation or thermal burns , or penetration of foreign bodies .
The use of a combination drug with an anti - infective component is indicated where the risk of infection is high or where there is an expectation that potentially dangerous numbers of bacteria will be present in the eye .
The particular anti - infective drug in this product is active against the following common bacterial eye pathogens : Staphylococcus aureus , Escherichia coli , Haemophilus influenzae , Klebsiella / Enterobacter species , Neisseria species , Pseudomonas aeruginosa .
This product does not provide adequate coverage against Serratia marcescens , and Streptococci , including Streptococcus pneumoniae .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is contraindicated in most viral diseases of the cornea and conjunctiva , including epithelial herpes simplex keratitis ( dendritic keratitis ) , vaccinia , varicella , and also in mycobacterial infection of the eye and fungal diseases of ocular structures .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is also contraindicated in individuals with known or suspected hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients of this preparation and to other corticosteroids .
WARNINGS : Prolonged use of corticosteroids may result in glaucoma with damage to the optic nerve , defects in visual acuity and fields of vision , and in posterior subcapsular cataract formation .
Prolonged use may also suppress the host immune response and thus increase the hazard of secondary ocular infections .
Various ocular diseases and long - term use of topical corticosteroids have been known to cause corneal and scleral thinning .
Use of topical corticosteroids in the presence of thin corneal or scleral tissue may lead to perforation .
Acute purulent infections of the eye may be masked or activity enhanced by the presence of corticosteroid medication .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be routinely monitored even though it may be difficult in children and uncooperative patients .
Steroids should be used with caution in the presence of glaucoma .
Intraocular pressure should be checked frequently .
The use of steroids after cataract surgery may delay healing and increase the incidence of bleb formation .
Use of ocular steroids may prolong the course and may exacerbate the severity of many viral infections of the eye ( including herpes simplex ) .
Employment of a corticosteroid medication in the treatment of patients with a history of herpes simplex requires great caution ; frequent slit lamp microscopy is recommended .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is not for injection .
It should never be injected subconjunctivally , nor should it be directly introduced into the anterior chamber of the eye .
Products containing neomycin sulfate may cause cutaneous sensitization .
PRECAUTIONS : General The initial prescription and renewal of the medication order beyond 20 mL should be made by a physician only after examination of the patient with the aid of magnification , such as a slit lamp biomicroscopy and , where appropriate , fluorescein staining .
If signs and symptoms fail to improve after two days , the patient should be re - evaluated .
As fungal infections of the cornea are particularly prone to develop coincidentally with long - term corticosteroid applications , fungal invasion should be suspected in any persistent corneal ulceration where a corticosteroid has been used or is in use .
Fungal cultures should be taken when appropriate .
If this product is used for 10 days or longer , intraocular pressure should be monitored ( see WARNINGS ) .
Prolonged use of topical anti - bacterial agents may give rise to overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms including fungi .
Information for Patients : If inflammation or pain persists longer than 48 hours or becomes aggravated , the patient should be advised to discontinue use of the medication and consult a physician .
This product is sterile when packaged .
To prevent contamination , care should be taken to avoid touching the bottle tip to eyelids or to any other surface .
The use of this bottle by more than one person may spread infection .
Keep bottle tightly closed when not in use .
Keep out of reach of children .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals to evaluate carcinogenic or mutagenic potential have not been conducted with polymyxin B sulfate .
Treatment of cultured human lymphocytes in vitro with neomycin increased the frequency of chromosome aberrations at the highest concentration ( 80 µg / mL ) tested .
However , the effects of neomycin on carcinogenesis and mutagenesis in humans are unknown .
Polymyxin B has been reported to impair the motility of equine sperm , but its effects on male or female fertility are unknown .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects : Pregnancy Category C . Dexamethasone has been shown to be teratogenic in mice and rabbits following topical ophthalmic application in multiples of the therapeutic dose .
In the mouse , corticosteroids produce fetal resorptions and a specific abnormality , cleft palate .
In the rabbit , corticosteroids have produced fetal resorptions and multiple abnormalities involving the head , ears , limbs , palate , etc .
There are no adequate or well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the embryo or fetus .
Infants born of mothers who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should be observed carefully for signs of hypoadrenalism .
Nursing Mothers Systemically administered corticosteroids appear in human milk and could suppress growth , interfere with endogenous corticosteroid production , or cause other untoward effects .
It is not known whether topical administration of corticosteroids could result in sufficient systemic absorption to produce detectable quantities in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk , caution should be exercised when neomycin and polymyxin B sulfates and dexamethasone ophthalmic suspension is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 2 years have not been established .
Geriatric Use No overall differences in safety or effectiveness have been observed between elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Adverse reactions have occurred with steroid / anti - infective combination drugs which can be attributed to the steroid component , the antiinfective component , or the combination .
Exact incidence figures are not available since no denominator of treated patients is available .
Reactions occurring most often from the presence of the anti - infective ingredients are allergic sensitizations .
The reactions due to the steroid component are : elevation of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) with possible development of glaucoma , and infrequent optic nerve damage ; posterior subcapsular cataract formation ; and delayed wound healing .
Corticosteroid - containing preparations have also been reported to cause perforation of the globe .
Keratitis , conjunctivitis , corneal ulcers , and conjunctival hyperemia have occasionally been reported following use of steroids .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : One or two drops topically in the conjunctival sac ( s ) .
In severe disease , drops may be used hourly , being tapered to discontinuation as the inflammation subsides .
In mild disease , drops may be used up to four to six times daily .
Not more than 20 mL should be prescribed initially and the prescription should not be refilled without further evaluation as outlined in PRECAUTIONS above .
SHAKE WELL BEFORE USING .
HOW SUPPLIED : Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Suspension USP is supplied in a controlled drop tip bottle in the following size : 5 mL – NDC 63187 - 498 - 05 DO NOT USE IF IMPRINTED NECKBAND IS NOT INTACT .
FOR OPHTHALMIC USE ONLY Storage Store between 15 ° - 25 ° C ( 59 ° - 77 ° F ) .
Store upright .
KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN .
Revised September 2008 Bausch & Lomb Incorporated Tampa , FL 33637 © Bausch & Lomb Incorporated 9114202 ( Folded ) 9114302 ( Flat ) Relabeled By : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 Principal Display Panel [ MULTIMEDIA ] NDC 63187 - 498 - 05 Bausch & Lomb Neomycin and Polymyxin B Sulfates and Dexamethasone Ophthalmic Suspension USP ( Sterile ) Rx only [ icon - eye ] [ icon - suspension ] [ icon - 5 mL ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
