WARNING PHYSICIANS SHOULD COMPLETELY FAMILIARIZE THEMSELVES WITH THE COMPLETE CONTENTS OF THIS LEAFLET BEFORE PRESCRIBING PRIMAQUINE PHOSPHATE .
DESCRIPTION Primaquine phosphate is 8 - [ ( 4 - Amino - 1 - methylbutyl ) amino ] - 6 - methoxyquinoline phosphate , a synthetic compound with potent antimalarial activity .
Each tablet contains 26 . 3 mg of Primaquine phosphate ( equivalent to 15 mg of primaquine base ) .
The dosage is customarily expressed in terms of the base .
Inactive Ingredients : Microcrystalline Cellulose , Pregelatinized Starch , Lactose Monohydrate , Magnesium Stearate , Purified water , Hypromellose , Opadry Purple , Titanium Dioxide , Macrgol / PEG , FD & C Red # 40 and FD & C Blue # 2 .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Primaquine phosphate is an 8 - aminoquinoline compound which eliminates tissue ( exoerythrocytic ) infection .
Thereby , it prevents the development of the blood ( erythrocytic ) forms of the parasite which are responsible for relapses in vivax malaria .
Primaquine phosphate is also active against gametocytes of Plasmodium falciparum .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Primaquine phosphate is indicated for the radical cure ( prevention of relapse ) of vivax malaria .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Primaquine phosphate is contraindicated in acutely ill patients suffering from systemic disease manifested by tendency to granulocytopenia , such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus erythematosus .
The drug is also contraindicated in patients receiving concurrently other potentially hemolytic drugs or depressants of myeloid elements of the bone marrow .
Because quinacrine hydrochloride appears to potentiate the toxicity of antimalarial compounds which are structurally related to primaquine , the use of quinacrine in patients receiving primaquine is contraindicated .
Similarly , Primaquine should not be administered to patients who have received quinacrine recently , as toxicity is increased .
WARNINGS Discontinue the use of Primaquine phosphate promptly if signs suggestive of hemolytic anemia occur ( darkening of the urine , marked fall of hemoglobin or erythrocytic count ) .
Hemolytic reactions ( moderate to severe ) may occur in individuals with glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G - 6 - PD ) deficiency and in individuals with a family or personal history of favism .
Areas of high prevalence of G - 6 - PD deficiency are Africa , Southern Europe , Mediterranean region , Middle East , South - East Asia , and Oceania .
People from these regions have a greater tendency to develop hemolytic anemia ( due to a congenital deficiency of erythrocytic glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) while receiving Primaquine and related drugs .
Usage in Pregnancy Safe usage of this preparation in pregnancy has not been established .
Therefore , use of it during pregnancy should be avoided except when in the judgment of the physician the benefit outweighs the possible hazard .
PRECAUTIONS Since anemia , methemoglobinemia , and leukopenia have been observed following administration of large doses of primaquine , the adult dosage of 1 tablet ( = 15 mg base ) daily for fourteen days should not be exceeded .
It is also advisable to make routine blood examinations ( particularly blood cell counts and hemoglobin determinations ) during therapy .
If primaquine phosphate is prescribed for ( 1 ) an individual who has shown a previous idiosyncrasy to primaquine phosphate ( as manifested by hemolytic anemia , methemoglobinemia , or leukopenia ) , ( 2 ) an individual with a family or personal history of favism , or ( 3 ) an individual with erythrocytic glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G - 6 - PD ) deficiency or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) methemoglobin reductase deficiency , the person should be observed closely for tolerance .
The drug should be discontinued immediately if marked darkening of the urine or sudden decrease in hemoglobin concentration or leukocyte count occurs .
Due to potential for QT interval prolongation , monitor ECG when using Primaquine in patients with cardiac disease , long QT syndrome , a history of ventricular arrhythmias , uncorrected hypokalemia and / or hypomagnesemia , or bradycardia ( < 50 bpm ) , and during concomitant administration with QT interval prolonging agents ( see PRECAUTIONS , Drug Interactions , ADVERSE REACTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Drug Interactions Caution is advised if Primaquine is used concomitantly with other drugs that prolong the QT interval ( see PRECAUTIONS , ADVERSE REACTIONS , and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Primaquine did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , usually starting at the low end of the dosing range , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Gastrointestinal : nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , and abdominal cramps .
Hematologic : leukopenia , hemolytic anemia in glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( G - 6 - PD ) deficient individuals , and methemoglobinemia in nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) methemoglobin reductase deficient individuals .
Cardiac : Cardiac Arrhythmia and QT interval prolongation ( see PRECAUTIONS , OVERDOSAGE ) .
OVERDOSAGE Symptoms of overdosage of primaquine phosphate include abdominal cramps , vomiting , burning epigastric distress , central nervous system and cardiovascular disturbances , including cardiac arrhythmia and QT interval prolongation , cyanosis , methemoglobinemia , moderate leukocytosis or leukopenia , and anemia .
The most striking symptoms are granulocytopenia and acute hemolytic anemia in sensitive persons .
Acute hemolysis occurs , but patients recover completely if the dosage is discontinued .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Primaquine phosphate is recommended only for the radical cure of vivax malaria , the prevention of relapse in vivax malaria , or following the termination of chloroquine phosphate suppressive therapy in an area where vivax malaria is endemic .
Patients suffering from an attack of vivax malaria or having parasitized red blood cells should receive a course of chloroquine phosphate , which quickly destroys the erythrocytic parasites and terminates the paroxysm .
Primaquine phosphate should be administered concurrently in order to eradicate the exoerythrocytic parasites in a dosage of 1 tablet ( equivalent to 15 mg base ) daily for 14 days .
HOW SUPPLIED Primaquine Phosphate USP Tablets are solid oral formulation round tablet debossed " BY4 " available in 26 . 3 mg and 14 , 28 , and 100 count .
Available in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 33261 - 0671 - 14 ) Available in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 33261 - 0671 - 28 ) Available in bottles of 100 .
( NDC 33261 - 0671 - 00 ) Store at controlled room temperature : 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions are permitted to 15 ° - 30 ° C ( 59 ° - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Clinical Studies Persons with acute attacks of vivax malaria , provoked by the release of erythrocytic forms of the parasite , respond readily to therapy , particularly to Chloroquine Phosphate .
Primaquine eliminates tissue ( exoerythrocytic ) infection and prevents relapses in experimentally induced vivax malaria in human volunteers and in persons with naturally occurring infections and is a valuable adjunct to conventional therapy in vivax malaria .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA1088 .
Rx Only Manufactured for : Bayshore Pharmaceuticals LLC Short Hills , NJ 07078 1 - 800 - 593 - 5725 Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92882 Revised 10 / 2015 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 26 . 3 mg Tablet Bottle Label NDC 76385 - 102 - 01 Primaquine phosphate Tablets , USP 26 . 3 mg ( = 15 mg base ) Rx only 100 Tablets Adult dosage should not exceed 1 tablet daily for 14 days .
Discontinue promptly if signs suggestive of hemolytic anemia occur ( i . e . , darkening of urine , marked fall of hemoglobin , or erythrocyte count ) .
Usual Dosage : See package insert .
Dispense in tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° C - 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured for : Bayshore Pharmaceuticals LLC Short Hills , NJ 07078 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
