Active ingredient ( in each tablet ) Acetaminophen 500 mg Purposes Pain Reliever / Fever Reducer Aspirin Free Extra Strength Pain Reliever Uses for the temporary relief of minor aches and pains due to : • • headache • • muscular aches • • backache • • minor pain of arthritis • • the common cold • • toothache • • premenstrual and menstrual cramps • • temporarily reduces fever Warnings Liver warning : This product contains acetaminophen .
The maximum daily dose of this product is 6 tablets ( 3 , 000 mg ) in 24 hours .
Severe liver damage may occur if you take • • more than 4 , 000 mg of acetaminophen in 24 hours • • with other drugs containing acetaminophen • • 3 or more alcoholic drinks every day while using this product Do not use • • with any other drug containing acetaminophen ( prescription or non prescription ) .
If you are not sure whether a drug contains acetaminophen , ask a doctor or pharmacist .
• • if you are allergic to acetaminophen or any of the inactive ingredients in this product Ask a doctor before use if you have liver disease .
Ask a doctor or pharmacist before use if you are taking the blood thinning drug warfarin .
Stop use and ask a doctor if • • pain gets worse or lasts more than 10 days • • fever gets worse or lasts more than 3 days • • new symptoms occur • • redness or swelling is present These could be signs of a serious condition .
If pregnant or breast - feeding , ask a health professional before use .
Keep out of reach of children This Unit Dose package is not child resistant and is Intended for Institutional Use Only .
Overdose warning : Taking more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) may cause liver damage .
In the case of overdose , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away ( 1 - 800 - 222 - 1222 ) .
Quick medical attention is critical for adults as well as for children even if you do not notice any signs or symptoms .
Directions Do not take more than the directed ( see overdose warning ) Adults and children 12 years and over : • • Take 2 tablets every 6 hours while symptoms last .
• • Do not take more than 6 tablets in 24 hours unless directed by a doctor • • Do not take for more than 10 days unless directed by a doctor Children under 12 years : Do not use adult Extra Strength product in children under 12 years of age ; this will provide more than the recommended dose ( overdose ) of acetaminophen and may cause liver damage .
Other information • • Store at room temperature Inactive ingredients Povidone , Pregelatinized Starch , Sodium Starch Glycolate , Stearic Acid Questions or comments ?
To report Adverse Drug Event call ( 800 ) 616 - 2471 Tamper Evident : Do not use if sealed blister units are broken or damaged .
Repackaged By : Aidarex Pharmaceuticals , LLC Corona , CA 92880 Principal Display Panel NDC 0904 - 1988 - 59 See New Warnings Information and Directions EXTRA STRENGTH Mapap TABLETS ASPIRIN FREE STRONG PAIN AND FEVER RELIEF [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
