Rx only DESCRIPTION : A white powder for reconstitution containing 420 g polyethylene glycol 3350 , 5 . 72 g sodium bicarbonate , 11 . 2 g sodium chloride , 1 . 48 g potassium chloride and one 2 . 0 g flavor pack ( optional ) .
When dissolved in water to a volume of 4 liters , NuLYTELY ( PEG - 3350 , sodium chloride , sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution ) is an isosmotic solution having a pleasant mineral water taste .
NuLYTELY is administered orally or via nasogastric tube as a gastrointestinal lavage .
NuLYTELY Flavor Packs are available in Cherry , Lemon - Lime , Orange and Pineapple .
This preparation can be used without the addition of a NuLYTELY Flavor Pack .
CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : NuLYTELY induces a diarrhea which rapidly cleanses the bowel , usually within four hours .
The osmotic activity of polyethylene glycol 3350 and the electrolyte concentration result in virtually no net absorption or excretion of ions or water .
Accordingly , large volumes may be administered without significant changes in fluid or electrolyte balance .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : NuLYTELY is indicated for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : NuLYTELY is contraindicated in patients known to be hypersensitive to any of the components .
NuLYTELY is contraindicated in patients with ileus , gastrointestinal obstruction , gastric retention , bowel perforation , toxic colitis or toxic megacolon .
WARNINGS : NuLYTELY Flavor Packs are for use only in combination with the contents of the accompanying 4 liter container .
No additional ingredients , e . g . flavorings , should be added to the solution .
NuLYTELY should be used with caution in patients with severe ulcerative colitis .
Use of NuLYTELY in children younger than 2 years of age should be carefully monitored for occurrence of possible hypoglycemia , as this solution has no caloric substrate .
Dehydration has been reported in 1 child and hypokalemia has been reported in 3 children .
PRECAUTIONS : General : Patients with impaired gag reflex , unconscious , or semiconscious patients , and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of NuLYTELY , especially if it is administered via nasogastric tube .
If a patient experiences severe bloating , distention or abdominal pain , administration should be slowed or temporarily discontinued until the symptoms abate .
If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected , appropriate studies should be performed to rule out these conditions before administration of NuLYTELY .
Information for patients : NuLYTELY produces a watery stool which cleanses the bowel before examination .
Prepare the solution according to the instructions on the bottle .
It is more palatable if chilled .
For best results , no solid food should be consumed during the 3 to 4 hour period before drinking the solution , but in no case should solid foods be eaten within 2 hours of taking NuLYTELY .
Adults drink 240 mL ( 8 oz . )
every 10 minutes .
Continue drinking until the watery stool is clear and free of solid matter .
This usually requires at least 3 liters .
Any unused portion should be discarded .
Pediatric patients ( aged 6 months or greater ) drink 25 mL / kg / hour .
Continue drinking until the watery stool is clear and free of solid matter .
Any unused portion should be discarded .
Rapid drinking of each portion is better than drinking small amounts continuously .
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of NuLYTELY administration .
You may experience some abdominal bloating and distention before the bowels start to move .
If severe discomfort or distention occur , stop drinking temporarily or drink each portion at longer intervals until these symptoms disappear .
Use of NuLYTELY in children younger than 2 years of age should be carefully monitored for occurrence of possible hypoglycemia , as this solution has no caloric substrate .
Dehydration has been reported in 1 child and hypokalemia has been reported in 3 children .
Drug Interactions : Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of NuLYTELY may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract and not absorbed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Carcinogenic and reproductive studies with animals have not been performed .
Pregnancy : Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with NuLYTELY .
It is also not known whether NuLYTELY can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproductive capacity .
NuLYTELY should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly needed .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness of NuLYTELY in pediatric patients aged 6 months and older is supported by evidence from adequate and well - controlled clinical trials of NuLYTELY in adults with additional safety and efficacy data from published studies of similar formulations .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Nausea , abdominal fullness and bloating are the most common adverse reactions ( occurring in up to 50 % of patients ) to administration of NuLYTELY .
Abdominal cramps , vomiting and anal irritation occur less frequently .
These adverse reactions are transient and subside rapidly .
Isolated cases of urticaria , rhinorrhea , dermatitis and ( rarely ) anaphylactic reaction have been reported which may represent allergic reactions .
Published literature contains isolated reports of serious adverse reaction following the administration of PEG - ELS products in patients over 60 years of age .
These adverse events include upper GI bleeding from Mallory - Weiss Tear , esophageal perforation , asystole , sudden dyspnea with pulmonary edema , and “ butterfly - like ” infiltrate on chest X - ray after vomiting and aspirating PEG .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : NuLYTELY is usually administered orally , but may be given via nasogastric tube to patients who are unwilling or unable to drink the solution .
Ideally , the patient should fast for approximately three or four hours prior to NuLYTELY administration , but in no case should solid food be given for at least two hours before the solution is given .
Oral administration : Adults : At a rate of 240 mL ( 8 oz . )
every 10 minutes , until the rectal effluent is clear or 4 liters are consumed .
Pediatric Patients ( aged 6 months or greater ) : At a rate of 25 mL / kg / hour , until the rectal effluent is clear .
Rapid drinking of each portion is preferred to drinking small amounts continuously .
Nasogastric tube administration : Adults : At a rate of 20 - 30 mL per minute ( 1 . 2 - 1 . 8 liters per hour ) .
Pediatric Patients ( aged 6 months or greater ) : At a rate of 25 mL / kg / hour , until the rectal effluent is clear .
The first bowel movement should occur approximately one hour after the start of NuLYTELY administration .
Ingestion of 4 liters of NuLYTELY solution prior to gastrointestinal examination produces satisfactory preparation in over 95 % of patients .
Various regimens have been used .
One method is to schedule patients for examination in midmorning or later , allowing the patients three hours for drinking and an additional one hour period for complete bowel evacuation .
Another method is to administer NuLYTELY on the evening before the examination .
Preparation of the solution : NuLYTELY solution is prepared by filling the container to the 4 liter mark with water and shaking vigorously several times to insure that the ingredients are dissolved .
Dissolution is facilitated by using lukewarm water .
The solution is more palatable if chilled before administration .
However , chilled solution is not recommended for infants .
The reconstituted solution should be refrigerated and used within 48 hours .
Discard any unused portion .
HOW SUPPLIED : NuLYTELY , Cherry Flavor NuLYTELY , Lemon - Lime Flavor NuLYTELY , Orange Flavor NuLYTELY are available in a disposable jug , in powdered form , for oral administration as a solution following reconstitution .
4 liter Plastic Bottle NDC 54868 - 4233 - 0 NuLYTELY with Flavor Packs is supplied in a disposable jug , in powdered form , for oral administration as a solution following reconstitution .
Each jug has an attached package containing 4 flavor packs ; one each 2 . 0 g : Cherry , Lemon - Lime , Orange and Pineapple flavoring , in powdered form , for the addition of ONE pack by the pharmacist prior to dispensing .
Each jug contains : NuLYTELY : polyethylene glycol 3350 420 g , sodium bicarbonate 5 . 72 g , sodium chloride 11 . 2 g , potassium chloride 1 . 48 g .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 31 . 3 mmol / L , sodium 65 mmol / L , chloride 53 mmol / L , bicarbonate 17 mmol / L and potassium 5 mmol / L .
Cherry Flavor NuLYTELY : polyethylene glycol 3350 420 g , sodium bicarbonate 5 . 72 g , sodium chloride 11 . 2 g , potassium chloride 1 . 48 g and flavoring ingredients 2 . 0 g .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 31 . 3 mmol / L , sodium 65 mmol / L , chloride 53 mmol / L , bicarbonate 17 mmol / L and potassium 5 mmol / L .
Lemon - Lime Flavor NuLYTELY : polyethylene glycol 3350 420 g , sodium bicarbonate 5 . 72 g , sodium chloride 11 . 2 g , potassium chloride 1 . 48 g and flavoring ingredients 2 . 0 g .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 31 . 3 mmol / L , sodium 65 mmol / L , chloride 53 mmol / L , bicarbonate 17 mmol / L and potassium 5 mmol / L .
Orange Flavor NuLYTELY : polyethylene glycol 3350 420 g , sodium bicarbonate 5 . 72 g , sodium chloride 11 . 2 g , potassium chloride 1 . 48 g and flavoring ingredients 2 . 0 g .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 31 . 3 mmol / L , sodium 65 mmol / L , chloride 53 mmol / L , bicarbonate 17 mmol / L and potassium 5 mmol / L .
NuLYTELY with Flavor Packs : polyethylene glycol 3350 420 g , sodium bicarbonate 5 . 72 g , sodium chloride 11 . 2 g , potassium chloride 1 . 48 g and flavoring ingredients 2 . 0 g ( optional ) .
When made up to 4 liters volume with water , the solution contains PEG - 3350 31 . 3 mmol / L , sodium 65 mmol / L , chloride 53 mmol / L , bicarbonate 17 mmol / L and potassium 5 mmol / L .
STORAGE : Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 - 30 ° C ( 59 - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
When reconstituted , keep solution refrigerated .
Use within 48 hours .
Discard unused portion .
Distributed by Braintree Laboratories , Inc . , Braintree , MA 02185 S 12 / 08 Relabeling of " Additional " label by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PAKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL NDC 54868 - 4233 - 0 NuLYTELY ® ( PEG - 3350 , Sodium Chloride , Sodium Bicarbonate and Potassium Chloride for Oral Solution ) With Flavor Packs Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
