Patient Information Information for Patients Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs , including clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When clindamycin hydrochloride capsules are prescribed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by clindamycin hydrochloride capsules or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
Diarrhea is a common problem caused by antibiotics which usually ends when the antibiotic is discontinued .
Sometimes after starting treatment with antibiotics , patients can develop watery and bloody stools ( with or without stomach cramps and fever ) even as late as two or more months after having taken the last dose of the antibiotic .
If this occurs , patients should contact their physician as soon as possible .
Laboratory Tests During prolonged therapy , periodic liver and kidney function tests and blood counts should be performed .
Drug Interactions Clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Antagonism has been demonstrated between clindamycin and erythromycin in vitro .
Because of possible clinical significance , these two drugs should not be administered concurrently .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long - term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames Salmonella reversion test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( approximately 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects Pregnancy Category B Reproduction studies performed in rats and mice using oral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 3 . 2 and 1 . 6 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) or subcutaneous doses of clindamycin up to 250 mg / kg / day ( 1 . 3 and 0 . 7 times the highest recommended adult human dose based on mg / m2 , respectively ) revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of the human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Clindamycin has been reported to appear in breast milk in the range of 0 . 7 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL .
Pediatric Use When clindamycin hydrochloride is administered to the pediatric population ( birth to 16 years ) , appropriate monitoring of organ system functions is desirable .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of clindamycin did not include sufficient numbers of patients age 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger patients .
However , other reported clinical experience indicates that antibiotic - associated colitis and diarrhea ( due to Clostridium difficile ) seen in association with most antibiotics occur more frequently in the elderly ( > 60 years ) and may be more severe .
These patients should be carefully monitored for the development of diarrhea .
Pharmacokinetic studies with clindamycin have shown no clinically important differences between young and elderly subjects with normal hepatic function and normal ( age - adjusted ) renal function after oral or intravenous administration .
Adverse Reasctions ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported with the use of clindamycin .
Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , pseudomembranous colitis , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea .
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment .
HypersensitivityReactions : Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like ( maculopapular ) skin rashes are the most frequently reported adverse reactions .
Vesiculobullous rashes , as well as urticaria , have been observed during drug therapy .
Rare instances of erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , and a few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have also been reported .
Skin and Mucous Membranes : Pruritus , vaginitis , and rare instances of exfoliative dermatitis have been reported .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Renal : Although no direct relationship of clindamycin to renal damage has been established , renal dysfunction as evidenced by azotemia , oliguria , and / or proteinuria has been observed in rare instances .
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) and eosinophilia have been reported .
Reports of agranulocytosis and thrombocytopenia have been made .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of the foregoing .
Musculoskeletal : Rare instances of polyarthritis have been reported .
Dosage and Administration DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION If significant diarrhea occurs during therapy , this antibiotic should be discontinued ( see WARNING box ) .
Adults : Serious infections — 150 to 300 mg every 6 hours .
More severe infections - 300 to 450 mg every 6 hours .
Pediatric Patients : Serious infections - 8 to 16 mg / kg / day ( 4 to 8 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
More severe infections - 16 to 20 mg / kg / day ( 8 to 10 mg / lb / day ) divided into three or four equal doses .
To avoid the possibility of esophageal irritation , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules should be taken with a full glass of water .
Serious infections due to anaerobic bacteria are usually treated with clindamycin injection .
However , in clinically appropriate circumstances , the physician may elect to initiate treatment or continue treatment with clindamycin hydrochloride capsules .
In cases of β - hemolytic streptococcal infections , treatment should continue for at least 10 days Indications and Usage INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are indicated in the treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible anaerobic bacteria .
Clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are also indicated in the treatment of serious infections due to susceptible strains of streptococci , pneumococci , and staphylococci .
Its use should be reserved for penicillin - allergic patients or other patients for whom , in the judgment of the physician , a penicillin is inappropriate .
Because of the risk of colitis , as described in the WARNING box , before selecting clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP are the physician should consider the nature of the infection and the suitability of less toxic alternatives ( e . g . , erythromycin ) .
Anaerobes : Serious respiratory tract infections such as empyema , anaerobic pneumonitis , and lung abscess ; serious skin and soft tissue infections ; septicemia ; intra - abdominal infections such as peritonitis and intra - abdominal abscess ( typically resulting from anaerobic organisms resident in the normal gastrointestinal tract ) ; infections of the female pelvis and genital tract such as endometritis , nongonococcal tubo - ovarian abscess , pelvic cellulitis , and postsurgical vaginal cuff infection .
Streptococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Staphylococci : Serious respiratory tract infections ; serious skin and soft tissue infections .
Pneumococci : Serious respiratory tract infections .
Bacteriologic studies should be performed to determine the causative organisms and their susceptibility to clindamycin .
To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP and other antibacterial drugs , clindamycin hydrochloride capsules , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Warnings Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea ( CDAD ) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin hydrochloride , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon , leading to overgrowth of C . difficile . C .
difficile produces toxins A and B , which contribute to the development of CDAD .
Hypertoxin producing strains of C . difficile cause increased morbidity and mortality , as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy .
CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use .
Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents .
If CDAD is suspected or confirmed , ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C . difficile may need to be discontinued .
Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management , protein supplementation , antibiotic treatment of C . difficile , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated .
A careful inquiry should be made concerning previous sensitivities to drugs and other allergens .
Usage in Meningitis - Since clindamycin does not diffuse adequately into the cerebrospinal fluid , the drug should not be used in the treatment of meningitis .
Complete manufacturer ' s online drug information Please go to the FDA site for the complete manufacturer ' s drug information : http : / / dailymed . nlm . nih . gov / dailymed / lookup . cfm ? setid = 1dbd8448 - c1e5 - 46 df - 8060 - 50ef82380445 Label Display NDC : 51655 - 964 - 52 Clindamycin HCL 150 MG 30 Capsules Lot : Exp : Rx Only Store at 20 C to 25 C ( 68 - 77 F ) Keep out of reach of children .
Dosage : See package insert Manufactured for : Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Manufacture Address : Jacksonville , FL 32257 Manufacture NDC : 63304 - 692 - 05 MFG Lot : 2579946 Distributed by : Northwind Pharmaceuticals Indianapolis , IN 46256 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
