DESCRIPTION Hydrochloro thiazide is the 3 , 4 - dihydro derivative of chlorothiazide .
Its chemical name is 6 - chloro - 3 , 4 - dihydro - 2 H - 1 , 2 , 4 - benzothiadiazine - 7 - sulfonamide 1 , 1 - dioxide .
Its molecular formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 ; its molecular weight is 297 . 74 ; and its structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] It is a white , or practically white , crystalline powder which is slightly soluble in water , but freely soluble in sodium hydroxide solution .
Hydrochloro thiazide is supplied as 12 . 5 mg capsules for oral use .
Each capsule contains the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , corn starch , lactose monohydrate , and magnesium stearate .
The hard gelatin shell consists of gelatin , titanium dioxide , sodium lauryl sulphate , FD & C Blue # 1 , D & C Red # 28 , D & C Yellow # 10 , black iron oxide and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Hydrochlorothiazide blocks the reabsorption of sodium and chloride ions , and it thereby increases the quantity of sodi um traversing the distal tubule and the volume of water excret ed .
A portion of the additional sodium presented to the distal tubule is exchanged there for potassium and hydrogen ions .
With continued use of hydro chlorothiazide and depletion of sodium , compensatory mecha nisms tend to increase this exchange and may produce excessive loss of potassium , hydrogen and chloride ions .
Hydrochlorothiazide also decreases the excretion of cal cium and uric acid , may increase the excretion of iodide and may reduce glomerular fil tration rate .
Metabolic toxicities associated with excessive elec trolyte changes caused by hydrochlorothiazide have been shown to be dose - related .
Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism : Hydrochlorothiazide is well absorbed ( 65 % to 75 % ) fol lowing oral administration .
Absorption of hydrochlorothi azide is reduced in patients with congestive heart failure .
Peak plasma concentrations are observed within 1 to 5 hours of dosing and range from 70 to 490 ng / mL follow ing oral doses of 12 . 5 to 100 mg .
Plasma concentra tions are linearly related to the administered dose .
Concen trations of hydrochlorothiazide are 1 . 6 to 1 . 8 times higher in whole blood than in plasma .
Binding to serum proteins has been reported to be approxi mately 40 % to 68 % .
The plas ma elimination half - life has been reported to be 6 to 15 hours .
Hydrochlorothiazide is eliminated primarily by renal pathways .
Following oral doses of 12 . 5 to 100 mg , 55 % to 77 % of the administered dose appears in urine and greater than 95 % of the absorbed dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug .
In patients with renal disease , plasma con centrations of hydrochlorothi azide are increased and the elimination half - life is pro longed .
When hydrochloro thiazide is adminis tered with food , its bioavailabil ity is reduced by 10 % , the max imum plasma concentration is reduced by 20 % , and the time to maximum concentration increases from 1 . 6 to 2 . 9 hours .
Pharmacodynamics : Acute antihypertensive effects of thi azides are thought to result from a reduction in blood vol ume and cardiac output , sec ondary to a natriuretic effect , although a direct vasodilatory mechanism has also been pro posed .
With chronic adminis tration , plasma volume returns toward normal , but peripheral vascular resistance is de creased .
The exact mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of hydrochlorothiazide is not known .
Thiazides do not affect normal blood pressure .
Onset of action occurs within 2 hours of dos ing , peak effect is observed at about 4 hours , and activity per sists for up to 24 hours .
Clinical Studies : In an 87 patient 4 - week double - blind , placebo controlled , parallel group trial , patients who received hydrochloro thiazide had reductions in seated systolic and diastolic blood pressure that were significantly greater than those seen in patients who received placebo .
In published placebo - controlled trials com paring 12 . 5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide to 25 mg , the 12 . 5 mg dose preserved most of the placebo - corrected blood pressure reduction seen with 25 mg .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Hydrochloro thiazide capsules are indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent , or in combination with other antihypertensives .
Unlike potassium sparing combina tion diuretic products , hydrochloro thiazide capsules may be used in those patients in whom the development of hyperkalemia cannot be risked , including patients taking ACE inhibitors .
Usage in Pregnancy : The rou tine use of diuretics in an otherwise healthy woman is inappropriate and exposes mother and fetus to unneces sary hazard .
Diuretics do not prevent development of tox emia of pregnancy , and there is no satisfactory evidence that they are useful in the treatment of developed toxemia .
Edema during pregnancy may arise from pathological causes or from the physiologic and mechanical consequences of pregnancy .
Diuretics are indi cated in pregnancy when edema is due to pathologic causes , just as they are in the absence of pregnancy .
Dependent edema in pregnan cy resulting from restriction of venous return by the expanded uterus is properly treated through elevation of the lower extremities and use of support hose ; use of diuretics to lower intravascular volume in this case is illogical and unneces sary .
There is hypervolemia during normal pregnancy which is harmful to neither the fetus nor the mother ( in the absence of cardiovascular dis ease ) , but which is associated with edema , including general ized edema in the majority of pregnant women .
If this edema produces discomfort , in creased recumbency will often provide relief .
In rare instances this edema may cause extreme discomfort which is not relieved by rest .
In these cases a short course of diuretics may provide relief and may be appropriate .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Hydrochlorothiazide capsules are con traindicated in patients with anuria .
Hypersensitivity to this product or other sulfonamide derived drugs is also con traindicated .
WARNINGS Acute Myopia and Secondary Angle - Closure Glaucoma : Hydrochlorothiazide , a sulfonamide , can cause an idiosyncratic reaction , resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle - closure glaucoma .
Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation .
Untreated acute angle - closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss .
The primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible .
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled .
Risk factors for developing acute angle - closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy .
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia : Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest and diabetic patients given thiazides may require adjustment of their insulin dose .
Renal Disease : Cumulative effects of the thiazides may develop in patients with impaired renal function .
In such patients , thiazides may precipitate azotemia .
PRECAUTIONS Electrolyte and Fluid Balance Status : In published studies , clinically significant hypokalemia has been consistently less common in patients who received 12 . 5 mg of hydro chlorothiazide than in patients who received higher doses .
Nevertheless , periodic determi nation of serum electrolytes should be performed in patients who may be at risk for the development of hypo kalemia .
Patients should be observed for signs of fluid or electrolyte disturbances , i . e . , hyponatremia , hypochloremic alkalosis , and hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia .
Warning signs or symptoms of fluid and electrolyte imbalance include dryness of mouth , thirst , weakness , lethargy , drowsiness , restlessness , muscle pains or cramps , mus cular fatigue , hypotension , oliguria , tachycardia , and gas trointestinal disturbances such as nausea and vomiting .
Hypokalemia may develop , especially with brisk diuresis when severe cirrhosis is pres ent , during concomitant use of corticosteroid or adrenocorti cotropic hormone ( ACTH ) or after prolonged therapy .
Interference with adequate oral electrolyte intake will also con tribute to hypokalemia .
Hypo kalemia and hypomagnesemia can provoke ventricular arrhythmias or sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of dig italis .
Hypokalemia may be avoided or treated by potas sium supplementation or increased intake of potassium rich foods .
Dilutional hyponatremia is life - threatening and may occur in edematous patients in hot weather ; appropriate therapy is water restriction rather than salt administration , except in rare instances when the hypo natremia is life - threatening .
In actual salt depletion , appropri ate replacement is the therapy of choice .
Hyperuricemia : Hyperuricemia or acute gout may be precipi tated in certain patients receiv ing thiazide diuretics .
Impaired Hepatic Function : Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function .
They can precipitate hepatic coma in patients with severe liver dis ease .
Parathyroid Disease : Calcium excretion is decreased by thi azides , and pathologic changes in the parathyroid glands , with hypercalcemia and hypophos phatemia , have been observed in a few patients on prolonged thiazide therapy .
Information for Patients : Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Instruct patients taking hydrochlorothiazide to protect skin from the sun and undergo regular skin cancer screening .
Drug Interactions : When given concurrently the following drugs may interact with thiazide diuretics : Alcohol , barbiturates , or narcotics : potentiation of ortho static hypotension may occur .
Antidiabetic drugs : ( oral agents and insulin ) dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic drug may be required .
Other antihypertensive drugs : additive effect or potentiation .
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins : Cholestyramine and colestipol resins bind the hydrochlorothiazide and re duce its absorption from the gastrointestinal tract by up to 85 and 43 percent , respectively .
Corticosteroid , ACTH : intensi fied electrolyte depletion , particularly hypokalemia .
Pressor amines ( e . g . , norepinephrine ) : possible decreased response to pressor amines but not sufficient to preclude their use .
Skeletal muscle relaxants , nondepolarizing ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) : possible increased responsiveness to the muscle relaxant .
Lithium : generally should not be given with diuretics .
Diuretic agents reduce the renal clear ance of lithium and greatly increase the risk of lithium tox icity .
Refer to the package insert for lithium preparations before use of such preparations with hydrochloro thiazide .
Non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs : In some patients , the administration of a non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agent can reduce the diuretic , natriuretic , and antihypertensive effects of loop , potassium - sparing and thiazide diuretics .
When hydrochloro thiazide and non - steroidal anti - inflammatory agents are used concomitantly , the patients should be observed closely to determine if the desired effect of the diuretic is obtained .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions : Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid function ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility : Two - year feeding studies in mice and rats conducted under the auspices of the National Toxicology Program ( NTP ) uncovered no evidence of a carcinogenic potential of hydrochlorothiazide in female mice ( at doses of up to approximately 600 mg / kg / day ) or in male and female rats ( at doses of approximately 100 mg / kg / day ) .
The NTP , however , found equivocal evidence for hepatocarcinogenicity in male mice .
Hydrochlorothiazide was not genotoxic in vitro in the Ames mutagenicity assay of Salmonella typhimurium strains TA 98 , TA 100 , TA 1535 , TA 1537 , and TA 1538 and in the Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) test for chromosomal aberrations , or in vivo in assays using mouse germinal cell chromosomes , Chinese hamster bone marrow chromosomes , and the Drosophila sex - linked recessive lethal trait gene .
Positive test results were obtained only in the in vitro CHO Sister Chromatid Exchange ( clastogenicity ) and in the Mouse Lymphoma Cell ( mutagenicity ) assays , using concentrations of hydrochlorothiazide from 43 to 1 , 300 mcg / mL , and in the Aspergillus nidulans non - disjunction assay at an unspecified concentration .
Hydrochlorothiazide had no adverse effects on the fertility of mice and rats of either sex in studies wherein these species were exposed , via their diet , to doses of up to 100 and 4 mg / kg , respectively , prior to conception and throughout gestation .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic Effects : Studies in which hydrochlorothiazide was orally administered to pregnant mice and rats during their respective periods of major organogenesis at doses up to 3 , 000 and 1 , 000 mg hydrochlorothiazide / kg , respectively , provided no evidence of harm to the fetus .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Nonteratogenic Effects : Thiazides cross the placental barrier and appear in cord blood .
There is a risk of fetal or neonatal jaundice , thrombocytopenia , and possibly other adverse reactions that have occurred in adults .
Nursing Mothers : Thiazides are excreted in breast milk .
Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants , a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide , taking into account the importance of the drug to the mother .
Pediatric Use : Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use : A greater blood pressure reduction and an increase in side effects may be observed in the elderly ( i . e . , > 65 years ) with hydrochlorothiazide .
Starting treatment with the lowest available dose of hydrochlorothiazide ( 12 . 5 mg ) is therefore recommended .
If further titration is required , 12 . 5 mg increments should be utilized .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse reactions associated with hydrochlorothiazide have been shown to be dose related .
In controlled clinical trials , the adverse events reported with doses of 12 . 5 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily were comparable to placebo .
The following adverse reactions have been reported for doses of hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg and greater and , within each category , are listed in the order of decreasing severity .
Body as a whole : Weakness .
Cardiovascular : Hypotension including orthostatic hypotension ( may be aggravated by alcohol , barbiturates , narcotics or antihypertensive drugs ) .
Digestive : Pancreatitis , jaundice ( intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice ) , diarrhea , vomiting , sialadenitis , cramping , constipation , gastric irritation , nausea , anorexia .
Hematologic : Aplastic anemia , agranulocytosis , leukopenia , hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylactic reactions , necrotizing angiitis ( vasculitis and cutaneous vasculitis ) , respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema , photosensitivity , fever , urticaria , rash , purpura .
Metabolic : Electrolyte imbalance ( see PRECAUTIONS ) , hyperglycemia , glycosuria , hyperuricemia .
Musculoskeletal : Muscle spasm .
Nervous System / Psychiatric : Vertigo , paresthesia , dizziness , headache , restlessness .
Renal : Renal failure , renal dysfunction , interstitial nephritis ( see WARNINGS ) .
Skin : Erythema multiforme including Stevens - Johnson syndrome , exfoliative dermatitis including toxic epidermal necrolysis , alopecia .
Special Senses : Transient blurred vision , xanthopsia .
Urogenital : Impotence .
Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe , thiazide dosage should be reduced or therapy withdrawn .
Postmarketing Experience : The following adverse reaction has been identified during post - approval use of hydrochlorothiazide .
Because the reaction is reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
Non - melanoma Skin Cancer : Hydrochlorothiazide is associated with an increased risk of non - melanoma skin cancer .
In a study conducted in the Sentinel System , increased risk was predominantly for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) and in white patients taking large cumulative doses .
The increased risk for SCC in the overall population was approximately 1 additional case per 16 , 000 patients per year , and for white patients taking a cumulative dose of ≥ 50 , 000 mg the risk increase was approximately 1 additional SCC case for every 6 , 700 patients per year .
OVERDOSAGE The most common signs and symptoms observed are those caused by electrolyte depletion ( hypokalemia , hypochloremia , hyponatremia ) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis .
If digitalis has also been administered , hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias .
In the event of overdosage , symptomatic and supportive measures should be employed .
Emesis should be induced or gastric lavage performed .
Correct dehydration , electrolyte imbalance , hepatic coma and hypotension by established procedures .
If required , give oxygen or artificial respiration for respiratory impairment .
The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by hemodialysis has not been established .
The oral LD50 of hydrochlorothiazide is greater than 10 gm / kg in the mouse and rat .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION For Control of Hypertension : The adult initial dose of hydrochloro thiazide is one capsule given once daily whether given alone or in combination with other antihypertensives .
Total daily doses greater than 50 mg are not recommended .
HOW SUPPLIED Hydrochlorothiazide Capsules USP 12 . 5 mg are blue / blue size ‘ 4 ’ hard gelatin capsules , imprinted with ‘ D ’ on blue cap and ‘ 26 ’ on blue body with black edible ink , filled with white to off - white powder .
Bottles of 100 NDC 65862 - 113 - 01 Bottles of 300 NDC 65862 - 113 - 33 Bottles of 500 NDC 65862 - 113 - 05 Bottles of 1 , 000 NDC 65862 - 113 - 99 Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP .
Keep out of reach of children .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted to 15 ° to 30 ° C ( 59 ° to 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light , moisture , freezing , - 20 ° C ( - 4 ° F ) .
Keep container tightly closed .
Distributed by : Aurobindo Pharma USA , Inc . 279 Princeton - Hightstown Road East Windsor , NJ 08520 Manufactured by : Aurobindo Pharma Limited Hyderabad - 500 038 , India Revised : 09 / 2020 PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - 12 . 5 mg ( 100 Capsule Bottle ) NDC 65862 - 113 - 01 Rx only Hydrochlorothiazide Capsules USP 12 . 5 mg AUROBINDO 100 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
