Benzocaine 20 % Menthol 0 . 5 % Zinc Chloride 0 . 15 % Benzocaine - Oral Pain Reliever Menthol - Oral Pain Reliever Zinc Chloride - Oral Astringent Use for the temporary relief of • pain due to minor irritation of the mouth and gums caused by dentures • occasional minor irritation , pain , sore mouth Methemoglobinemia warning : Use of this product may cause methemoglobinemia , a serious condition that must be treated promptly because it reduces the amount of oxygen carried in the blood .
This can occur even if you have used this product before .
Stop use and seek immediate medical attention if you or a child in your care develops : • pale , gray , or blue colored skin ( cyanosis ) • headache • rapid heartrate • shortness of breath • dizziness or lightheadedness • fatigue or lack of energy • Allergy alert : do not use this product if you have a history of allergy to local anesthetics such as procaine , butacaine , benzocaine or other " caine " anesthetics Do not use • more than directed • for more than 7 days unless directed by a dentist or doctor • for teething • in children under 2 years of age Stop use and ask a doctor if • symptoms do not improve in 7 days • swelling , rash or fever develops • irritation , pain or redness persists or worsens Keep out of reach of children .
In case of overdose or allergic reaction , get medical help or contact a Poison Control Center right away Directions Adults and children 2 years of age and over Apply a thin layer to the affected area .
Do not reinsert dental work until irritation / pain is relieved .
Rinse out well before reinserting .
Apply to affected area up to 4 times daily or as directed by a dentist or doctor Children between 2 and 12 years of age Ask a doctor before use .
Should be supervised in the use of this product Children under 2 years of age Do not use do not use if Tamper - Evident Tab is open before first use ammonium glycyrrhizate , benzalkonium chloride , blue 1 , flavor , PEG - 8 , PEG - 75 , sodium saccharin , sorbic acid , water Questions ?
call us at 800 - 952 - 5080 M - F 9 am - 5 pm or visit www . orajel . com # 1 ORAL PAIN RELIEVER BRAND FOR ADULTS Ready - Open Tube Tip Orajel ™ 3 X MEDICATED FOR DENTURE PAIN INSTANT PAIN RELIEF GEL 20 % Benzocaine to Relieve Pain from Dentures Astringent to Relieve Gum Irritation Menthol to Soothe Gums Irritated by Dentures [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
