Rx only To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria .
DESCRIPTION Cefazolin for Injection , USP , is a sterile semi - synthetic cephalosporin for parenteral administration ( Intramuscular or Intravenous ) .
It is the sodium salt of 3 - [ { ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) thio ] - methyl } - 8 - oxo - 7 - [ 2 - ( 1 H - tetrazol - 1 - yl ) acetamido - 5 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 4 . 2 . 0 ] oct - 2 - ene - 2 - carboxylic acid .
The molecular weight is 476 . 49 .
Cefazolin sodium has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] The sodium content is 48 mg per gram of cefazolin .
Cefazolin for injection , USP is supplied in 500 mg or 1 gram vials for intramuscular or intravenous use and in 1 gram infusion bottles for intravenous use .
Each 500 mg or 1 gram vial contains , cefazolin sodium equivalent to 500 mg or 1 gram of cefazolin .
Each 1 gram infusion bottle contains , cefazolin sodium equivalent to 1 gram cefazolin .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Human Pharmacology : After intramuscular administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , the mean serum concentrations were 37 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 3 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 500 mg dose , and 64 mcg / mL at 1 hour and 7 mcg / mL at 8 hours following a 1 gram dose .
Studies have shown that following intravenous administration of cefazolin to normal volunteers , mean serum concentrations peaked at approximately 185 mcg / mL and were approximately 4 mcg / mL at 8 hours for a 1 gram dose .
The serum half - life for cefazolin is approximately 1 . 8 hours following IV administration and approximately 2 hours following IM administration .
In a study ( using normal volunteers ] of constant intravenous infusion with dosages of 3 . 5 mg / kg for 1 hour ( approximately 250 mg ) and 1 . 5 mg / kg the next 2 hours ( approximately 100 mg ) cefazolin produced a steady serum level at the third hour of approximately 28 mcg / mL .
Studies in patients hospitalized with infections indicate that cefazolin produces mean peak serum levels approximately equivalent to those seen in normal volunteers .
Bile levels in patients without obstructive biliary disease can reach or exceed serum levels by up to five times ; however , in patients with obstructive biliary disease , bile levels of cefazolin are considerably lower than serum levels ( < 1 mcg / mL ) .
In synovial fluid , the cefazolin level becomes comparable to that reached in serum at about 4 hours after drug administration .
Studies of cord blood show prompt transfer of cefazolin across the placenta .
Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Cefazolin is excreted unchanged in the urine .
In the first 6 hours approximately 60 % of the drug is excreted in the urine and this increases to 70 % to 80 % within 24 hours .
Cefazolin achieves peak urine concentrations of approximately 2400 mcg / mL and 4000 mcg / mL respectively following 500 mg and 1 gram intramuscular doses .
In patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis ( 2 L / hr ) , cefazolin produced mean serum levels of approximately 10 and 30 mcg / mL after 24 hours ' instillation of a dialyzing solution containing 50 mg / L and 150 mg / L respectively .
Mean peak levels were 29 mcg / mL ( range 13 - 44 mcg / mL ) with 50 mg / L ( three patients ) , and 72 mcg / mL ( range 26 - 142 mcg / mL ) with 150 mg / L ( six patients ) .
Intraperitoneal administration of cefazolin is usually well tolerated .
Controlled studies on adult normal volunteers , receiving 1 gram 4 times a day for 10 days , monitoring CBC , SGOT , SGPT , bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase , BUN , creatinine and urialysis , indicated no clinically significant changes attributed to cefazolin .
Microbiology : In vitro tests demonstrate that the bactericidal action of cephalosporins results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis .
Cefazolin is active against the following organisms in vitro and in clinical infections : Staphylococcus aureus ( Including penicillinase - producing strains ) Staphylococcus epidermidis Methicillin - resistant staphylococci are uniformly resistant to cefazolin Group A beta - hemolytic streptococci and other strains of streptococci ( many strains of enterococci are resistant ) Streptococcus pneumoniae Escherichia coli Proteus mirabilis Klebsiella species Enterobacter aerogenes Haemophilus influenzae Most strains of indole positive Proteus ( Proteus vulgaris ) , Enterobacter cloacae , Morganella morganii and Providencia rettgeri are resistant .
Serratia , Pseudomonas , Mima , Herellea species are almost uniformly resistant to cefazolin .
Disk Susceptibility TestsDisk diffusion technique - Quantitative methods that require measurement of zone diameters give the most precise estimates of antibiotic susceptibility .
One such procedure1 has been recommended for use with disks to test susceptibility to cefazolin .
Reports from a laboratory using the standardized single - disk susceptibility test1 with a 30 mcg cefazolin disk should be interpreted according to the following criteria : • Susceptible organisms produce zones of 18 mm or greater , indicating that the tested organism is likely to respond to therapy .
• Organisms of intermediate susceptibility produce zones 15 to 17 mm , indicating that the tested organism would be susceptible if high dosage is used or if the infection is confined to tissues and fluids ( e . g . , urine ) , in which high antibiotic levels are attained , • Resistant organisms produce zones of 14 mm or less , indicating that other therapy should be selected .
For gram - positive isolates , a zone of 18 mm is indicative of a cefazolin - susceptible organism when tested with eitherthe cephalosporin - class disk ( 30 mcg cephalothin ) or the cefazolin disk ( 30 mcg cefazolin ) .
Gram - negative organisms should be tested with the cefazolin disk ( using the above criteria ) , since cefazolin has been shown by in vitro tests to have activity against certain strains of enterobacteriaceae found resistant when tested with the cephalothin disk .
Gram - negative organisms having zones of less than 18 mm around the cephalothin disk may be susceptible to cefazolin .
Standardized procedures require use of control organisms .
The 30 mcg cefazolin disk should give zone diameter between 23 and 29 mm for E . coli ATCC 25922 and between 29 and 35 mm for S . aureus ATCC 25923 .
The cefazolin disk should not be used fortesting susceptibility to other cephalosporins .
1 Bauer , A . W . ; Kirby , W . M . M . ; Sherris , J . C . , and Turck , M . : Antibiotic Testing by a Standardized Single Disc Method , Am - J .
Clin .
Path .
45 : 493 , 1966 .
Standardized Disc Susceptibility Test , Federal Register 39 : 19182 - 19184 , 1974 .
Dilution techniques - A bacterial isolate may be considered susceptible if the minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) for cefazolin is not more than 16 mcg per mL Organisms are considered resistant if the MIC is equal to or greater than 64 mcg per mL .
The range of MIC ' s for the control strains are as follows : S . aureus ATCC 25923 , 0 . 25 to 1 . 0 mcg / mL E . coli ATCC 25922 , 1 . 0 to 4 . 0 mcg / mL INDICATIONS AND USAGE To reduce the development of drug - resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Cefazolin for Injection , USP and other antibacterial drugs , Cefazolin for Injection , USP should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria .
When culture and susceptibility information are available , they should be considered in selecting or modifying antibacterial therapy .
In the absence of such data , local epidemiology and susceptibility patterns may contribute to the empiric selection of therapy .
Cefazolin for injection , USP is indicated in the treatment of the following serious infections due to susceptible organisms : RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTIONS due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Klebsiella species , Haemophilus influenzae , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) and group A beta - hemolytic streptococci .
Injectable benzathine penicillin is considered to be the drug of choice in treatment and prevention of streptococcal infections including the prophylaxis of rheumatic fever .
Cefazolin is effective in the eradication of streptococci from the nasopharynx ; however , data establishing the efficacy of cefazolin in the subsequent prevention of rheumatic fever are not available at present .
URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS due to Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella species and some strains of enterobacter and enterococci .
SKIN AND SKIN STRUCTURE INFECTIONS due to Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , group A beta - hemolytic streptococci and other strains of streptococci .
BILIARY TRACT INFECTIONS due to Escherichia coli , various strains of streptococci , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella species and Staphylococcus aureus .
BONE AND JOINT INFECTIONS due to Staphylococcus aureus .
GENITAL INFECTIONS ( i . e . , prostatitis , epididymitis ) due to Escherichia coli , Proteus mirabilis , Klebsiella species and some strains of enterococci .
SEPTICEMIA due to Streptococcus pneumoniae , Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) , Proteus mirabilis , Escherichia coli , and Klebsiella species .
ENDOCARDITIS due to Staphylococcus aureus ( penicillin - sensitive and penicillin - resistant ) and group A beta hemolytic streptococci .
Appropriate culture and susceptibility studies should be performed to determine susceptibility of the causative organism to cefazolin .
PERIOPERATIVE PROPHYLAXIS : The prophylactic administration of cefazolin preoperatively , intraoperatively and postoperatively may reduce the incidence of certain postoperative infections in patients undergoing surgical procedures which are classified as contaminated or potentially contaminated ( e . g . , vaginal hysterectomy , and cholecystectomy in high - risk patients such as those 70 years of age , with acute cholecystitis , obstructive jaundice or common duct bile stones ) .
The perioperative use of cefazolin may also be effective in surgical patients in whom infection at the operative site would present a serious risk ( e . g . , during open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) .
The prophylactic administration of cefazolin should usually be discontinued within a 24 - hour period after the surgical procedure .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of cefazolin may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of surgery .
If there are signs of infection , specimens for cultures should be obtained for the identification of the causative organism so the appropriate therapy may be instituted .
( See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION . )
CONTRAINDICATIONS CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION , USP IS CONTRAINDICATED IN PATIENTS WITH KNOWN ALLERGY TO THE CEPHALOSPORIN GROUP OF ANTIBIOTICS .
WARNINGS BEFORE THERAPY WITH CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION , IS INSTITUTED , CAREFUL INQUIRY SHOULD BE MADE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE PATIENT HAS HAD PREVIOUS HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS TO CEFAZOLIN , CEPHALOSPORINS , PENICILLINS , OR OTHER DRUGS .
IF THIS PRODUCT IS GIVEN TO PENICILLIN - SENSITIVE PATIENTS , CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED BECAUSE CROSS - HYPERSENSITIVITY AMONG BETA - LACTAM ANTIBIOTICS HAS BEEN CLEARLY DOCUMENTED AND MAY OCCUR IN UP TO 10 % OF PATIENTS WITH A HISTORY OF PENICILLIN ALLERGY .
IF AN ALLERGIC REACTION TO CEFAZOLIN FOR INJECTION , USP OCCURS , DISCONTINUE TREATMENT WITH THE DRUG .
SERIOUS ACUTE HYPERSENSITIVITY REACTIONS MAY REQUIRE TREATMENT WITH EPINEPHRINE AND OTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES , INCLUDING OXYGEN , IV FLUIDS , IV ANTIHISTAMINES , CORTICOSTEROIDS , PRESSOR AMINES AND AIRWAY MANAGEMENT , AS CLINICALLY INDICATED .
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including cefazolin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alter the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is one primary cause of " antibiotic - associated colitis . "
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to drug discontinuation alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against C . difficile colitis .
PRECAUTIONS General - Prolonged use of Cefazolin for Injection may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms .
Careful clinical observation of the patient is essential .
Prescribing Cefazolin for Injection , USP in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug - resistant bacteria .
When cefazolin is administered to patients with low urinary output because of impaired renal function , lower daily dosage is required ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
As with other beta - lactam antibiotics , seizures may occur if inappropriately high doses are administered to patients with impaired renal function ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Cefazolin , as with all cephalosporins , should be prescribed with caution in individuals with a history of gastrointestinal disease , particularly colitis .
Drug Interactions - Probenicid may decrease renal tubular secretion of cephalosporins when used concurrently , resulting in increased and more prolonged cephalosporin blood levels .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interactions - A false positive reaction for glucose in the urine may occur with Benedict ' s solution , Fehling ' s solution or with Clinitest ® tablets , but not with enzyme - base tests such as Clinistix ® .
Positive direct and indirect antiglobulin ( Coombs ) tests have occurred ; these may also occur in neonates whose mothers received cephalosporins before delivery .
Carcinogenesis / Mutagenesis - Mutagenicity studies and long - term studies in animals to determine the carcinogenic potential of Cefazolin for Injection , USP have not been performed .
Pregnancy - Teratogenic Effects - Pregnancy Category B . Reproduction studies have been performed in rats , mice and rabbits at doses up to 25 times the human dose and have revealed no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the fetus due to cefazolin .
There are , however , no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Labor and Delivery - When cefazolin has been administered prior to caesarian section , drug levels in cord blood have been approximately one quarter to one third of maternal drug levels .
The drug appears to have no adverse effect on the fetus .
Nursing Mothers - Cefazolin is present in very low concentrations in the milk of nursing mothers .
Caution should be exercised when cefazolin is administered to a nursing woman .
Pediatric Use - Safety and effectiveness for use in prematures , infants and neonates have not been established .
See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION for recommended dosage in pediatric patients over 1 month .
Information for Patients - Patients should be counseled that antibacterial drugs including Cefazolin for Injection , USP should only be used to treat bacterial infections .
They do not treat viral infections ( e . g . , the common cold ) .
When Cefazolin for Injection , USP is prescnbed to treat a bacterial infection , patients should be told that although it is common to feel better early in the course of therapy , the medication should be taken exactly as directed .
Skipping doses or not completing the full course of therapy may : ( 1 ) decrease the effectiveness of the immediate treatment and ( 2 ) increase the likelihood that bacteria will develop resistance and will not be treatable by Cefazolin for lnjection , USP or other antibacterial drugs in the future .
ADVERSE REACTIONS The following reactions have been reported : Gastrointestinal : Diarrhea , oral candidiasis ( oral thrush ) , vomiting , nausea , stomach cramps , anorexia and pseudomembranous colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibiotic treatment ( see WARNINGS ) .
Nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely .
Allergic : Anaphylaxis , eosinophilia , itching , drug fever , skin rash , Stevens - Johnson syndrome .
Hematologic : Neutropenia , leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , thrombocythemia .
Hepatic and Renal : Transient rise in SGOT , SGPT , BUN and alkaline phosphatase levels have been observed without clinical evidence of renal or hepatic impairment .
Local Reactions : Rare instances of phlebitis have been reported at the site of injection .
Pain at the site of injection after intramuscular administration has occurred infrequently .
Some induration has occurred .
Other Reactions : Genital and anal pruritus ( including vulvar pruritus , genital moniliasis and vaginitis ) .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATIONUsual Adult DosageType of infection Dose Frequency Moderate to severe infections 500 mg to Every 6 to 8 hours 1 gram Mild infections caused by susceptible gram 250 mg to Every 8 hours + cocci 500 mg Acute , uncomplicated urinary tract infections 1 gram Every 12 hours Pneumococcal pneumonia 500 mg Every 12 hours Severe , life - threatening infections ( e . g . , 1 gram to Every 6 hours endocarditis , septicemia ) * 1 . 5 grams * In rare instances , doses of up to 12 grams of cefazolin per day have been used .
Perioperative Prophylactic UseTo prevent postoperative infection in contaminated or potentially contaminated surgery , recommended doses are ; • 1 gram IV or IM administered 1 / 2 hour to 1 hour prior to the start of surgery .
• For lengthy operative procedures ( e . g . , 2 hours or more ) , 500 mg to 1 gram IV or IM during surgery ( administration modified depending on the duration of the operative procedure ) .
• 500 mg to 1 gram IV or IM every 6 to 8 hours for 24 hours postoperatively .
It is important that ( 1 ) the preoperative dose be given just ( 1 / 2 to 1 hour ) prior to the start of surgery so that adequate antibiotic levels are present in the serum and tissues at the time of initial surgical incision ; and ( 2 ) Cefazolin for Injection be administered , if necessary , at appropriate intervals during surgery to provide sufficient levels of the antibiotic at the anticipated moments of greatest exposure to infective organisms .
In surgery where the occurrence of infection may be particularly devastating ( e . g . , open - heart surgery and prosthetic arthroplasty ) , the prophylactic administration of Cefazolin for Injection may be continued for 3 to 5 days following the completion of the surgery .
Dosage Adjustment for Patients with Reduced Renal FunctionCefazolin for Injection may be used in patients with reduced renal function with the following dosage adjustments : Patients with a creatinine clearance of 55 mL / min .
or greater or a serum creatinine of 1 . 5 mg % or less can be given full doses , Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 35 to 54 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 1 . 6 to 3 . 0 mg % can also be given full doses but dosage should be restricted to at least 8 hour intervals .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 11 to 34 mL / min .
or serum creatinine of 3 . 1 to 4 . 5 mg % should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 12 hours .
Patients with creatinine clearance rates of 10 mL / min .
or less or serum creatinine of 4 . 6 mg % or greater should be given 1 / 2 the usual dose every 18 to 24 hours .
All reduced dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose appropriate to the severity of the infection .
Patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis ; See Human Pharmacology .
Pediatric DosageIn pediatric patients , a total daily dosage of 25 to 50 mg per kg ( approximately 10 to 20 mg per pound ) of body weight , divided into three or four equal doses , is effective for most mild to moderately severe infections .
Total daily dosage may be increased to 100 mg per kg ( 45 mg per pound ) of body weight for severe infections .
Since safety for use in premature infants and in neonates has not been established , the use of cefazolin in these patients is not recommended .
Pediatric Dosage Guide 25 mg / kg / day divided 25 mg / kg / day divided Weight into 3 doses into 4 doses Vol .
( mL ) Vol .
( mL ) Approximate needed with Approximate needed with single dose dilution of single dose dilution of Lbs Kg mg / q8h 125 mg / mL mg / q6h 125 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 40 mg 0 . 35 mL 30 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 . 0 75 mg 0 . 60 mL 55 mg 0 . 45 mL 30 13 . 6 115 mg 0 . 90 mL 85 mg 0 . 70 mL 40 18 . 1 150 mg 1 . 20 mL 115 mg 0 . 90 mL 50 22 . 7 190 mg 1 . 50 mL 140 mg 1 . 10 mL 50 mg / kg / day divided 50 mg / kg / day divided Weight into 3 doses into 4 doses Vol .
( mL ) Vol .
( mL ) Approximate needed with Approximate needed with single dose dilution of single dose dilution of Lbs Kg mg / q8h 225 mg / rnL mg / q6h 225 mg / mL 10 4 . 5 75 mg 0 . 35 mL 55 mg 0 . 25 mL 20 9 . 0 150 mg 0 . 70 mL 110 mg 0 . 50 mL 30 13 . 6 225 mg 1 . 00 mL 170 mg 0 . 75 mL 40 18 . 1 300 mg 1 . 35 mL 225 mg 1 . 00 mL 50 22 . 7 375 mg 1 . 70 mL 265 mg 1 . 25 mL In pediatric patients with mild to moderate renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 70 to 40 mL / min , ) , 60 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be sufficient .
In patients with moderate impairment ( creatinine clearance of 40 to 20 mL / min . )
, 25 percent of the normal daily dose given in equally divided doses every 12 hours should be adequate .
Pediatric patients with severe renal impairment ( creatinine clearance of 20 to 5 mL / min . )
may be given 10 percent of the normal daily dose every 24 hours .
All dosage recommendations apply after an initial loading dose .
RECONSTITITION Preparation of Parenteral SolutionParenteral drug products should be SHAKEN WELL when reconstituted , and inspected visually for particulate matter prior to administration .
If particulate matter is evident in reconstituted fluids , the drug solutions should be discarded .
When reconstituted or diluted according to the instructions below , Cefazolin is stable for 24 hours at room temperature or for 10 days if stored under refrigeration ( 5 ° C or 41 ° F ) .
Reconstituted solutions may range in color from pale yellow to yellow without a change in potency .
Single dose vialsFor IM injection , IV direct ( bolus ) injection or IV infusion , reconstitute with Sterile Water for Injection according to the following table .
SHAKE WELL .
Approximate Approximate Vial size Amount of diluent concentration Available volume 500 mg 2 mL 225 mg / mL 2 . 2 mL 1 gram 2 . 5 mL 330 mg / mL 3 mL Infusion bottlesReconstitute with 50 to 100 mL of Sodium Chloride Injection or other IV solution listed under ADMINISTRATION .
When adding diluent to vial , allow air to escape by using a small vent needle or by pumping the syringe .
SHAKE WELL .
Administer with primary IV fluids , as a single dose .
ADMINISTRATION Intramuscular Administration - Reconstitute vials with Sterile Water for Injection according to the dilution table above .
Shake well until dissolved .
Cefazolin should be injected into a large muscle mass .
Pain on injection is infrequent with cefazolin .
Intravenous Administration - Direct ( bolus ) injection : Following reconstitution according to the above table , further dilute vials with approximately 5 mL Sterile Water for Injection .
Inject the solution slowly over 3 to 5 minutes , directly or through tubing for patients receiving parenteral fluids ( see list below ) .
Intermittent or continuous infusion : Dilute reconstituted cefazolin in 50 to 100 mL of one of the following solutions : • Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % or 10 % Dextrose Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose in Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 45 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • 5 % Dextrose and 0 . 2 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP • Lactated Ringer ' s Injection , USP • Invert Sugar 5 % or 10 % in Sterile Water for Injection • Ringer ' s Injection , USP • 5 % Sodium Bicarbonate Injection , USP HOW SUPPLIED Cefazolin for Injection , USP , is supplied in vials containing cefazolin sodium equivalent to 500 mg or 1 gram cefazolin and in infusion bottles containing cefazolin sodium equivalent to 1 gram cefazolin : NDC 54868 - 4651 - 0 500 mg / 10 mL vial , Carton of 25 vials As with other cephalosporins , Cefazolin for Injection , USP , tends to darken depending on storage conditions ; within the stated recommendations , however , product potency is not adversely affected .
Before reconstitution , protect from light and store at 20 ° - 25 ° C ( 68 ° - 77 ° F ) , [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Manufactured by : Hikma Farmaceutica ( Portugal ) , Lda .
2705 - 906 Terrugem SNT – PORTUGAL For : West - Ward Pharmaceutical Corp . 465 Industrial Way West EATONTOWN , NJ 07724 USA Rev . Jan . 2006 PIN001 - WES / 2 Relabeling of " Additional Barcode Label " by : Physicians Total Care , Inc .
Tulsa , OK 74146 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Cefazolin for Injection , USP 500 mg / 10 mL vial , Carton of 25 vials [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
