Rev . 08 / 11 Rx Only BOXED WARNING WARNING : Severe liver injury and acute liver failure , in some cases fatal , have been reported in patients treated with propylthiouracil .
These reports of hepatic reactions include cases requiring liver transplantation in adult and pediatric patients .
Propylthiouracil should be reserved for patients who can not tolerate methimazole and in whom radioactive iodine therapy or surgery are not appropriate treatments for the management of hyperthyroidism .
Because of the risk of fetal abnormalities associated with methimazole , proplythiouracil may be the treatment of choice when an antithyroid drug is indicated during or just prior to the first trimester of pregnancy ( see Warnings and Precautions ) .
DESCRIPTION : Propylthiouracil ( 6 - propyl - 2 - thiouracil ) is one of the thiocarbamide compounds .
It is a white , crystalline substance that has a bitter taste and is very slightly soluble in water .
Propylthiouracil is an antithyroid drug administered orally .
The structural formula is : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each tablet contains propylthiouracil 50 mg and the following inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , and sodium starch glycolate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY : Propylthiouracil inhibits the synthesis of thyroid hormones and thus is effective in the treatment of hyperthyroidism .
The drug does not inactivate existing thyroxine and triodothyronine that are stored in the thyroid or circulating in the blood , nor does it interfere with the effectiveness of thyroid hormones given by mouth or by injection .
Propylthiouracil inhibits the conversation of thyroxine to triiodothyronine to peripheral tissues and may therefore be an effective treatment for thyroid storm .
Propylthiouracil is readily absorbed and is extensively metabolized .
Approximately 35 % of the drug is excreted in the urine , in intact and in conjugated forms , within 24 hours .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE : Propylthiouracil is indicated : • in patients with Graves ' disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter who are intolerant of methimazole and for whom surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not an appropriate treatment option .
• to ameliorate symptoms of hyperthyroidism in preparation for thyroidectomy or radioactive iodine therapy in patients who are intolerant of methimazole .
CONTRAINDICATIONS : Propylthiouracil is contraindicated in patients who have demonstrated hypersensitivity to the drug or any of the other product components .
WARNINGS : .
Liver Toxicity Liver injury resulting in liver failure , liver transplantation , or death , has been reported with propylthiouracil therapy in adult and pediatric patients .
No cases of liver failure have been reported with the use of methimazole in pediatric patients .
For this reason , propylthiouracil is not recommended for pediatric patients except when methimazole is not well - tolerated and surgery or radioactive iodine therapy are not appropriate therapies .
There are cases of liver injury , including liver faillure and death , in women treated with propylthiouracil during pregnancy .
Two reports of in utero exposure with liver failure and death of a newborn have been reported .
The use of an alternative antithyroid medication ( e . g . , methimazole ) may be advisable following the first trimester of pregnancy ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
Biochemical monitoring of liver function ( bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase ) and hepatocellular integrity ( ALT , AST ) is not expected to attenuate the risk of severe liver injury due to its rapid and unpredictable onset .
Patients should be informed of the risk of liver failure .
Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms of hepatic dysfunction ( anorexia , pruritus , right upper quadrant pain , etc . ) particularly in the first six months of therapy .
When these symptoms occur , propylthouracil should be discontinued immediately and liver function tests and ALT and AST levels obtained .
Agranulocytosis Agranulocytosis occurs in approximately 0 . 2 % to 0 . 5 % of patients and is a potentially llife - threatening side effect of propylthiouracil therapy .
Agranulocytosis typically occurs within the first 3 months of therapy .
Patients should be instructed to immediately report any symptoms suggestive of agranulocytosis , such as fever or sore throat .
Leukopenia , thrombocytopenia , and aplastic anemia ( pancytopenia ) may also occur .
Propylthiouracil should be discontinued if agranulocytosis , aplastic anemia ( pancytopenia ) , ANCA - positive vasculitis , hepatitis , interstitial pneumonitis , fever , or exfoliative dermatitis is suspected , and the patient ' s bone marrow indices should be obtained .
Hypothyroidism Propylthiouracil can cause hypothyroidism necessitating routine monitoring of TSH and free T4 levels with adjustments in dosing to maintain a euthyroid state .
Because the drug readily crosses placental membranes , propylthiouracil can cause fetal goiter and cretinism when administered to a pregnant woman ( see PRECAUTIONS , Pregnancy ) .
PRECAUTIONS : General Patients should be instructed to report any symptoms of hepatic dysfunction ( anorexia , pruritus , jau7ndice , light colored stools , dark urine , right upper quadrant pain , etc . ) , particularly in the first six months of therapy .
When these symptoms occur , measurement should be made of liver function ( bilirubin , alkaline phosphatase ) and hepatocellular integrity ( ALT / AST levels ) .
Patients who receive propylthiouracil should be under close surveillance and should be counseled regarding the necessity of reporting any evidence of illness , particularly sore throat , skin eruptions , fever , headache , or general malaise .
In such cases , white blood cell and differential counts should be obtained to determine whether agranulocytosis has developed .
Particular care should be exercised with patients who are receiving concomitant drugs known to be associated with agranulocytosis .
Information for Patients Patients should be advised that if they become pregnant or intend to become pregnant white taking an antithyroid drug , they should contact their physician immediately about their therapy .
Patients should report immediately any evidence of illness , particularly sore throat , skin eruptions , fever , headache , or general malaise .
They also should report symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction ( anorexia , pruritis , right upper quadrant pain , etc ) .
Laboratory Tests Because propylthiouracil may cause hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding , monitoring of prothrombin time should be considered during therapy with the drug , especially before surgical procedures .
Thyroid function tests should be monitored periodically during therapy .
Once clinical evidence of hyperthyroidism has resolved , the finding of an elevated serum TSH indicates that a lower maintenance dose of propylthiouracil should be employed .
Drug Interactions Anticoagulants ( oral ) Due to the potential inhibition of vitamin K activity by propylthiouracil , the activity of oral anticoagulants ( e . g . , warfarin ) may be increased ; additional monitoring of PT / INR should be considered , especially before surgical procedures .
Beta - adrenergic blocking agents Hyperthyroidism may cause an increased clearance of beta blockers with a high extraction ratio .
A reduced dose of beta - adrenergic blockers may be needed when a hyperthyroid patient becomes euthyroid .
Digitalis Glycosides Serum digitalis levels may be increased when hyperthyroid patients on a stable digitalis glycoside regimen become euthyroid ; a reduced dosage of digitalis glycosides may be needed .
Theophylline Theophylline clearance may decrease when hyperthyroid patients on a stable theophylline regimen become euthyroid ; a reduced dose of theophylline may be needed .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Laboratory animals treated with propylthiouracil for > 1 year have demonstrated thyroid hyperplasia and carcinoma formation1 .
Such animal findings are seen with continuous suppression of thyroid function by sufficient doses of a variety of antithyroid agents , as well as in dietary iodine deficiency , subtotal thyroidectomy , and implantation of autonomous thyrotropic hormone - secreting pituitary tumors .
Pituitary adenomas have also been described .
Pregnancy Pregnancy Category D . SEE WARNINGS .
Nursing Mothers Propylthiouracil is transferred to breasdt milk to a small extent and therefore likely results in clinically insignificant doses to the suckling infant .
One one study , nine lactating women were administered 400 mg of propylthiouracil by mouth .
The mean amount of propylthiouracil excreted during 4 hours after drug administration was 0 . 025 % of the administered dose .
Pediatric Use Post - marketing reports of severe liver injury including hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation or resulting in death have been reported in the pediatric population .
No such reports have been observed with methimazole .
As such , propylthiouracil is not recommended for use in the pediatric population except in rare instances in which methimazole is not well - tolerated and surgery or radioactive iodine therapy are not appropriate .
When used in children , parents and patients should be informed of the risk of liver failure .
If patients taking propylthiouracil develop tiredness , nausea , anorexia , fever , pharyngitis , or malaise , propylthiouracil should be discontinued immediately by the patient , a physician should be contacted , and a white blood cell count , liver function tests , and transaminase levels obtained .
ADVERSE REACTIONS : Major adverse reactions ( much less common than the minor adverse reactions ) include liver injury resulting in hepatitis , liver failure , a need for liver transplantation or death .
Inhibition of myelopoiesis ( agranulocytosis , granulopenia , and thrombocytopenia ) , aplastic anemia , drug fever , a lupus - like syndrome ( including splenomegaly and vasculitis ) , hepatitis , periartentis , and hypoprothrombinemia and bleeding have been reported .
Nephritis , glomerulonephritis , interstitial pneumonitis , exfoliative dermatitis , and erythema nodosum have been reported .
Reports of a vasculitis syndrome associated with the presence of anti - neutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies ( ANCA ) have also been received .
Manifestations of ANCA - positive vasculitis may include rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis ( crescentic and pauci - immune necrotizing glomerulonephritis ) , sometimes leading to acute renal failure ; pulmonary infiltrates or alveolar hemorrhage ; skin ulcers ; and leucocytoclastic vasculitis .
Minor adverse reactions include skin rash , urticaria , nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , arthralgia , paresthesias , loss of taste , taste perversion , abnormal Ioss of hair , myalgia , headache , pruritus , drowsiness , neuritis , edema , vertigo , skin pigmentation , jaundice , sialadenopathy , and lymphadenopathy .
It should be noted that about 10 % of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have leukopenia ( white blood cell count of less than 4 , 000 / mm3 ) , often with relative granulopenia .
To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp . at 1 - 877 - 233 - 2001 or the FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
OVERDOSAGE : Signs and Symptoms Nausea , vomiting , epigastric distress , headache , fever , arthralgia , pruritus , edema , and pancytopenia .
Agranulocytosis is the most serious effect .
Rarely , exfoliative dermatitis , hepatitis , neuropathies , or CNS stimulation or depression may occur .
No information is available on the following : LD50 : concentration of propylthiouracil in biologic fluids associated with toxicity and / or death ; the amount of drug in a single dose usually associated with symptoms of overdosage ; or the amount of propylthiouracil in a single dose likely to be life - threatening .
Treatment To obtain up - to - date information about the treatment of overdose , a good resource is the certified Regional Poison Control Center .
In managing overdosage , consider the possibility of multiple drug overdoses , interaction among drugs , and unusual drug kinetics in the patient .
In the event of an overdose , appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated as dictated by the patient ' s medical status .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION : Propylthiouracil is administered orally .
The total daily dosage is usually given in 3 equal doses at approximately 8 - hour intervals .
Adults The initial dose is 300 mg daily .
In patients with severe hyperthyroidism , very large goiters , or both , the initial dose may be increased to 400 mg daily ; an occasional patient will require 600 to 900 mg daily initially .
The usual maintenance dose is 100 to 150 mg daily .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
Pediatric Patients Propylthiouracil is generally not recommended for use in the pediatric patient population except in rare instances in which other alternative therapies are not appropriate options .
Studies evaluating appropriate dosing regimen have not been conducted in the pediatric population although general practice would suggest initiation of therapy in patients 6 years or older at a dosage of 50 mg daily with careful upward titration based on clinical response and evaluation of TSH and free T4 levels .
Although cases of severe liver injury have been reported with doses as low as 50 mg / day , most cases were associated with doses of 300 mg / day and higher .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies of propylthiouracil did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
In general , dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious , reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic , renal , or cardiac function , and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy .
HOW SUPPLIED : Propylthiouracil Tablets , USP , 50 mg : White , Round , Scored Tablet , Debossed “ West - ward 480 ” .
• Bottles of 30 tablets .
Store at 20 - 25 ° C ( 68 - 77 ° F ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from light and moisture .
Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP using a child - resistant closure .
Reference : • International Agency for Research on Cancer , IARC Monographs on the Evaluation of the Carcinogenic Risk of Chemicals to Man .
1974 ; 7 : 67 - 76 .
Manufactured By : West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 Revised August 2011 Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 MEDICATION GUIDE PROPYLTHIOURACIL TABLETS , USP ( Pro - pil - thi - o - ur - a - sil ) Read this Medication Guide before you start taking Propylthiouracil and each time you get a refill .
There may be new information .
This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking to your doctor about your medical condition or treatment .
What is the most important information I should know about Propylthiouracil ?
Propythiouracil can cause serious side effects , including : Severe liver problems .
In some cases , these liver problems can lead to liver failure , the need for liver transplant , or death .
Stop taking Propylthiouracil and call your doctor right away if you have : • fever • loss of appetite • nausea • vomiting • tiredness • itchiness • pain or tenderness in your right upper stomach area ( abdomen ) • dark ( tea colored ) urine • pale or light colored bowel movements ( stools ) • yellowing of your skin or whites of your eyes What is Propylthiouracil ?
Propylthiouracil is a prescription medicine used to treat people who have Graves ' disease with hyperthyroidism or toxic multinodular goiter .
Propylthiouracil is used when : • certain other antithyroid medicines do not work well .
• thyroid surgery or radioactive iodine therapy is not a treatment option .
• to decrease symptoms of hyperthyroidism in preparation for a thyroidectomy ( removal of the thyroid gland ) or radioactive iodine therapy .
Propylthiouracil is not recommended for use in children .
Propylthiouracil may be used when an antithyroid drug is needed during or just before the first trimester of pregnancy .
Who should not take Propylthiouracil ?
Do not take Propylthiouracil if you are allergic to Propylthiouracil or any of its ingredients .
See the end of this Medication Guide for a complete list of ingredients in Propylthiouracil .
What should I tell my doctor before taking Propylthiouracil ?
Before you take Propylthiouracil , tell your doctor if you : • plan to have surgery .
• have any other medical conditions .
• are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
• Propylthiouracil may cause liver problems , liver failure and death in pregnant women .
• Propylthiouracil may harm your unborn baby .
• are breast - feeding or plan to breast - feed .
Propylthiouracil can pass into your breast milk .
Talk to you doctor about the best way to feed your baby if you take Propylthiouracil .
Tell your doctor about all the medicines you take , including prescription and nonprescription medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Propylthiouracil may affect the way other medicines work .
Especially , tell your doctor if you take : • a blood thinner medicine warfarin sodium ( Coumadin , Jantoven ) • medicine for heart problems • medicine for high blood pressure • Digoxin ( Lanoxicaps , Lanoxin ) • Theophylline ( Elixophyllin , Theolair , Theochron , Theo - 24 , Uniphyl ) Ask your doctor if you are not sure if your medicine is one of these .
Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of them to show your doctor and pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take Propylthiouracil ?
• Take Propylthiouracil exactly as your doctor tells you to take it .
• Your doctor may change your dose if needed .
• Propylthiouracil is usually taken 3 times a day ( every 8 hours ) .
• If you take too much Propylthiouracil , call your Regional Poison Control Center or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
• If you take too much Propylthiouracil you may have the following symptoms : • nausea • vomiting • upper stomach pain or tenderness • headache • fever • joint pain • swelling of your body , arms , and legs • If you miss a dose of Propylthiouracil , take it as soon as you remember .
If it is almost time for your next dose , skip the missed dose .
Just take the next dose at your regular time .
Do not double your dose .
What are the possible side effects of Propylthiouracil ?
Propylthiouracil may cause serious side effects , including : • liver problems .
See " What is the most important information I should know about Propylthiouracil ? "
• low white blood cell counts .
This usually happens within the first 3 months of treatment and can be life - threatening .
You may have a higher chance of getting an infection when your white blood cell count is low .
Tell your doctor right away if you have : • a fever • chills • sore throat • hypothyroidism .
Your doctor should do blood tests regularly during treatment to check your thyroid .
• increased bleeding especially with surgical procedures and particularly if you are taking blood thinners .
The most common side effects of Propylthiouracil include : • skin rash or hives • nausea • vomiting • upper stomach pain or tenderness • joint pain • itching or tingling • loss or change in taste • loss of hair • muscle pain • headache • sleepiness • nerve pain • swelling ( edema ) • dizziness • enlarged salivary glands or enlarged lymph nodes Tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away .
These are not all of the possible side effects of Propylthiouracil .
For more information , ask your doctor or pharmacist .
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store Propylthiouracil ?
Store at 20 - 25ºC ( 68 - 77ºF ) [ See USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Keep Propylthiouracil and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the sale and effective use of Propylthiouracil : Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Medication Guide .
Do not use Propylthiouracil for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give Propylthiouracil to other people , even if they have the same symptoms that you have .
It may harm them .
This Medication Guide summarizes the most important information about Propylthiouracil .
If you would like more information , talk with your doctor .
You can ask your pharmacist or doctor for information about Propylthiouracil that is written for health professionals .
West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
www . west - ward . com 1 - 877 - 233 - 2001 What are the ingredients in Propylthiouracil ?
Active ingredient : propylthiouracil Inactive ingredients : anhydrous lactose , magnesium stearate , microcrystalline cellulose , pregelatinized starch , and sodium starch glycolate .
West - ward Pharmaceutical Corp .
Eatontown , NJ 07724 USA Repackaged by : Rebel Distributors Corp Thousand Oaks , CA 91320 This Medication Guide has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
04 / 2010 PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL Propylthiouracil Tablets , USP 50 mg / 30 Tablets NDC 42254 - 010 - 30 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
