NOT FOR INTRAVASCULAR ADMINISTRATION NOT FOR INTRATHECAL USE DESCRIPTION Cysto - Conray II is a sterile aqueous solution intended for instillation as a diagnostic radiopaque medium .
Cysto - Conray II contains 17 . 2 % w / v iothalamate meglumine which is 1 - Deoxy - 1 - ( methylamino ) - D - glucitol 5 - acetamido - 2 , 4 , 6 - triiodo - N - methylisophthalamate ( salt ) and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each milliliter of Cysto - Conray II contains 172 mg of iothalamate meglumine , equivalent to 81 mg ( 8 . 1 % w / v ) of organically bound iodine , 0 . 110 mg edetate calcium disodium as a stabilizer and 0 . 115 mg of monobasic sodium phosphate as a buffer .
Cysto - Conray II is hypertonic under conditions of use and is supplied in containers from which the air has been displaced by nitrogen .
The pH of Cysto - Conray II is 6 . 6 to 7 . 6 .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY The most important characteristic of contrast media is the iodine content .
The relatively high atomic weight of iodine contributes sufficient radiodensity for radiographic contrast .
Following instillation by sterile catheter , Cysto - Conray II provides for visualization of the lower urinary tract .
Clinical literature reports indicate that routinely less than 1 percent of a retrograde urographic radiopaque is absorbed systemically , however , as much as 12 percent absorption was observed with pyelorenal back flow and may produce iodine medicated thyrotropic effects described under PRECAUTIONS .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cysto - Conray II is indicated for use in retrograde cystography and cystourethrography .
CONTRAINDICATIONS See WARNINGS concerning inadvertant intrathecal administration .
WARNINGS SEVERE ADVERSE EVENTS – INADVERTENT INTRATHECAL ADMINISTRATION : Serious adverse reactions have been reported due to the inadvertent intrathecal administration of iodinated contrast media that are not indicated for intrathecal use .
These serious adverse reactions include : death , convulsions , cerebral hemorrhage , coma , paralysis , arachnoiditis , acute renal failure , cardiac arrest , seizures , rhabdomyolysis , hyperthermia , and brain edema .
Special attention must be given to ensure that this drug product is not administered intrathecally .
PRECAUTIONS General Diagnostic procedures which involve the use of radiopaque diagnostic agents should be carried out under the direction of personnel with the prerequisite training and with a thorough knowledge of the particular procedure to be performed .
Appropriate facilities should be available for coping with any complication of the procedure , as well as for emergency treatment of severe reactions to the contrast agent itself .
After administration of the radiocontrast agent , competent personnel and emergency facilities should be available for at least 30 to 60 minutes since delayed reactions have occurred ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The possibility of an idiosyncratic reaction in susceptible patients should always be considered ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
The susceptible population includes patients with a history of a previous reaction to a contrast medium , patients with a known sensitivity to iodine per se and patients with a known clinical hypersensitivity : bronchial asthma , hay fever and food allergies .
A positive history of allergies or hypersensitivity does not arbitrarily contraindicate the use of a contrast agent where a diagnostic procedure is thought essential , but caution should be exercised ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Premedication with antihistamines or corticosteroids to avoid or minimize possible allergic reactions in such patients should be considered .
Recent reports indicate that such pre - treatment does not prevent serious life - threatening reactions , but may reduce both their incidence and severity .
Since these procedures require instrumentation , special precautions should be observed in those patients known to have an acute urinary tract infection .
Filling of the bladder should be done at a steady rate , exercising caution to avoid excessive pressure .
Sterile procedures should be employed in administration .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term animal studies have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential , mutagenic potential or whether this drug affects fertility in males or females .
Use in Pregnancy Category C . Animal reproduction studies have not been conducted with Cysto - Conray II .
It is also not known whether this drug can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity .
Cysto - Conray II should be used in pregnant women only if clearly needed .
Nursing Mothers Iothalamate salts are excreted unchanged in human milk .
Although it has not been established that serious adverse reactions occur in nursing infants , because of the potential for adverse reactions , caution should be exercised when Cysto - Conray II is administered to a nursing woman .
Information for the Patient Patients receiving diagnostic agents for instillation urography should be instructed to : • Inform your physician if you are pregnant .
• Inform your physician if you are allergic to any food , drugs or dyes used for x - ray procedures ( see PRECAUTIONS , General ) .
• Consult with your physician if , at some future date , any thyroid tests are planned .
The iodine in this agent may interfere with later thyroid tests .
• Inform your physician about any other medications you are currently taking .
Drug / Laboratory Test Interaction Thyroid Function Tests – If indicated , these tests generally should be performed prior to the administration of any iodinated agent .
However , thyroid function can be evaluated after use of these agents by using T3 resin uptake or free thyroxine assays .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Irritation of the bladder or ureter , common to some degree to all contrast media administered for retrograde urographic procedures , may occasionally occur .
As with all contrast media , intravasation may lead to hypersensitivity reactions such as a sense of warmth , flushing , sneezing , sweating , chills , fever , urticaria , laryngeal edema , bronchospasm , hypertension , hypotension , cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac arrest .
Adverse reactions associated with procedural technique include injury to the urethra , bladder , ureter , and introduction of infection .
In the event of serious or anaphylactoid reactions , it should be kept in mind that the reactions known to occur with intravenous administration of radiopaque contrast materials are possible .
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION Patient Preparation Unless contraindicated , an appropriate laxative is given the night before the examination .
Radiographic Technique The radiographic procedure normally employed for cystography and cystourethrography should be employed .
A preliminary radiograph is recommended before the contrast agent is administered .
Administration Sterile catherization is essential .
Cysto - Conray II may be introduced by gravity flow using an appropriate venoclysis set or by syringe .
Excessive pressure should be avoided with any method of administration .
Usual Dosage Cystography and Cystourethrography – Either Conray 43 supplied at 43 % w / v or Cysto - Conray II supplied at a 17 . 2 % w / v concentration may be used for these procedures .
The desired concentration will vary depending upon the patient ’ s size and age and also with the technique and equipment used .
( SEE CONRAY 43 PACKAGE INSERT FOR SPECIFIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE USE OF THIS PRODUCT . )
Sufficient volume of contrast medium is administered to adequately fill the urinary bladder .
The volume of solution required will vary depending upon the individual patient .
Adults usually require a volume in the range of 200 to 400 mL .
Children require a volume in proportion to their body size .
The usual dose ranges from 30 to 300 mL .
HOW SUPPLIED Cysto - Conray ® II Glass Bottles NDC Number 12 x 250 mL single dose bottles 0019 - 0862 - 50 Storage Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Exposing this product to very cold temperatures may result in crystallization of the salt .
If this occurs , the containers should be brought to room temperature .
Shake vigorously to assure complete dissolution of any crystals .
The speed of dissolution may be increased by heating with circulating warm air .
Before use , examine the product to assure that all solids are redissolved and that the container and closure have not been damaged .
This product is sensitive to light and must be protected from strong daylight or direct exposure to the sun .
As with all contrast media , the containers should be inspected prior to use to ensure that breakage or other damage has not occurred during shipping and handling .
All containers should be inspected for closure integrity .
Damaged containers should not be used .
Manufactured by : Liebel - Flarsheim Company LLC Raleigh , NC 27616 Made in USA GBT 0862A0817 Revised 08 / 17 Guerbet PACKAGE LABEL - PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Cysto - Conray ™ ll Label Not For Intravascular Administration Sterile Solution Cysto - Conray ® ll 250 mL NDC 0019 - 0862 - 50 Iothalamate Meglumine Injection USP 17 . 2 % 81 mg / mL Organically Bound Iodine For Retrograde Cystography and Cystourethrography NOT FOR INTRATHECAL USE Rx Only Protect from light • Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Each mL contains 172 mg iothalamate meglumine , 0 . 110 mg edetate calcium disodium as a stabilizer , and 0 . 115 mg monobasic sodium phosphate as a buffer .
Single dose container • Discard unused portion Usual Dosage : See Package Insert .
10230419 Guerbet Manufactured by : Liebel - Flarsheim Company LLC Raleigh , NC 27616 Made in USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
