WARNING This drug should be used primarily for treatment of patients with progressive and potentially life - threatening fungal infections ; it should not be used to treat noninvasive forms of fungal disease such as oral thrush , vaginal candidiasis and esophageal candidiasis in patients with normal neutrophil counts .
Amphotericin B for Injection should not be given in doses greater than 1 . 5 mg / kg .
EXERCISE CAUTION to prevent inadvertent overdosage , which may result in potentially fatal cardiac or cardiopulmonary arrest ( see WARNINGS , OVERDOSAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Verify the product name and dosage pre - administration , especially if dose exceeds 1 . 5 mg / kg .
DESCRIPTION Amphotericin B for Injection USP contains amphotericin B , an antifungal polyene antibiotic obtained from a strain of Streptomyces nodosus .
Amphotericin B is designated chemically as [ 1 R - ( 1 R * , 3 S * , 5 R * , 6 R * , 9 R * , 11 R * , 15 S * , 16 R * , 17 R * , 18 S * , 19 E , 21 E , 23 E , 25 E , 27 E , 29 E , 31 E , 33 R * , 35 S * , 36 R * , 37 S * ) ] - 33 - [ ( 3 - Amino - 3 , 6 - dideoxy - β - D - mannopyranosyl ) - oxy ] - 1 , 3 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 11 , 17 , 37 - octahydroxy - 15 , 16 , 18 - trimethyl - 13 - oxo - 14 , 39 - dioxabicyclo [ 33 . 3 . 1 ] nonatriaconta - 19 , 21 , 23 , 25 , 27 , 29 , 31 - heptaene - 36 - carboxylic acid .
Structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Each vial contains a sterile , nonpyrogenic , lyophilized cake ( which may partially reduce to powder following manufacture ) providing 50 mg amphotericin B and 41 mg sodium desoxycholate buffered with 20 . 2 mg sodium phosphates ( consisting of mono and dibasic sodium phosphate , phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide ) .
Crystalline amphotericin B is insoluble in water ; therefore , the antibiotic is solubilized by the addition of sodium desoxycholate to form a mixture which provides a colloidal dispersion for intravenous infusion following reconstitution .
At the time of manufacture the air in the vial is replaced by nitrogen .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Microbiology Amphotericin B shows a high order of in vitro activity against many species of fungi .
Histoplasma capsulatum , Coccidioides immitis , Candida species , Blastomyces dermatitidis , Rhodotorula , Cryptococcus neoformans , Sporothrix schenckii , Mucor mucedo , and Aspergillus fumigatus are all inhibited by concentrations of amphotericin B ranging from 0 . 03 to 1 . 0 mcg / mL in vitro .
While Candida albicans is generally quite susceptible to amphotericin B , non - albicans species may be less susceptible .
Pseudallescheria boydii and Fusarium sp .
are often resistant to amphotericin B .
The antibiotic is without effect on bacteria , rickettsiae , and viruses .
Susceptibility Testing Standardized techniques for susceptibility testing for antifungal agents have not been established and results of susceptibility studies have not been correlated with clinical outcomes .
Pharmacokinetics Amphotericin B is fungistatic or fungicidal depending on the concentration obtained in body fluids and the susceptibility of the fungus .
The drug acts by binding to sterols in the cell membrane of susceptible fungi with a resultant change in membrane permeability allowing leakage of intracellular components .
Mammalian cell membranes also contain sterols and it has been suggested that the damage to human cells and fungal cells may share common mechanisms .
An initial intravenous infusion of 1 to 5 mg of amphotericin B per day , gradually increased to 0 . 4 to 0 . 6 mg / kg daily , produces peak plasma concentrations ranging from approximately 0 . 5 to 2 mcg / mL .
Following a rapid initial fall , plasma concentrations plateau at about 0 . 5 mcg / mL .
An elimination half - life of approximately 15 days follows an initial plasma half - life of about 24 hours .
Amphotericin B circulating in plasma is highly bound ( > 90 % ) to plasma proteins and is poorly dialyzable .
Approximately two thirds of concurrent plasma concentrations have been detected in fluids from inflamed pleura , peritoneum , synovium , and aqueous humor .
Concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid seldom exceed 2 . 5 % of those in the plasma .
Little amphotericin B penetrates into vitreous humor or normal amniotic fluid .
Complete details of tissue distribution are not known .
Amphotericin B is excreted very slowly ( over weeks to months ) by the kidneys with 2 to 5 % of a given dose being excreted in the biologically active form .
Details of possible metabolic pathways are not known .
After treatment is discontinued , the drug can be detected in the urine for at least 7 weeks due to the slow disappearance of the drug .
The cumulative urinary output over a 7 day period amounts to approximately 40 % of the amount of drug infused .
INDICATIONS & USAGE Amphotericin B for Injection USP should be administered primarily to patients with progressive , potentially life - threatening fungal infections .
This potent drug should not be used to treat noninvasive fungal infections , such as oral thrush , vaginal candidiasis and esophageal candidiasis in patients with normal neutrophil counts .
Amphotericin B for Injection USP is specifically intended to treat potentially life - threatening fungal infections : aspergillosis , cryptococcosis ( torulosis ) , North American blastomycosis , systemic candidiasis , coccidioido - mycosis , histoplasmosis , zygomycosis including mucormycosis due to susceptible species of the genera Absidia , Mucor and Rhizopus , and infections due to related susceptible species of Conidiobolus and Basidiobolus , and sporotrichosis .
Amphotericin B may be useful in the treatment of American mucocutaneous leishmaniasis , but it is not the drug of choice as primary therapy .
CONTRAINDICATIONS This product is contraindicated in those patients who have shown hypersensitivity to amphotericin B or any other component in the formulation unless , in the opinion of the physician , the condition requiring treatment is life - threatening and amenable only to amphotericin B therapy .
WARNINGS Amphotericin B is frequently the only effective treatment available for potentially life - threatening fungal disease .
In each case , its possible life - saving benefit must be balanced against its untoward and dangerous side effects .
EXERCISE CAUTION to prevent inadvertent Amphotericin B for Injection overdose , which can result in potentially fatal cardiac or cardiopulmonary arrest .
Verify the product name and dosage dosage pre - administration , especially if dose exceeds 1 . 5 mg / kg .
( see OVERDOSAGE and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) PRECAUTIONS General Amphotericin B should be administered intravenously under close clinical observation by medically trained personnel .
It should be reserved for treatment of patients with progressive , potentially life - threatening fungal infections due to susceptible organisms ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) .
Acute reactions including fever , shaking chills , hypotension , anorexia , nausea , vomiting , headache , and tachypnea are common 1 to 3 hours after starting an intravenous infusion .
These reactions are usually more severe with the first few doses of amphotericin B and usually diminish with subsequent doses .
Rapid intravenous infusion has been associated with hypotension , hypokalemia , arrhythmias , and shock and should , therefore , be avoided ( see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
Amphotericin B should be used with care in patients with reduced renal function ; frequent monitoring of renal function is recommended ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests and ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
In some patients hydration and sodium repletion prior to amphotericin B administration may reduce the risk of developing nephrotoxicity .
Supplemental alkali medication may decrease renal tubular acidosis complications .
Since acute pulmonary reactions have been reported in patients given amphotericin B during or shortly after leukocyte transfusions , it is advisable to temporarily separate these infusions as far as possible and to monitor pulmonary function ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Leukoencephalopathy has been reported following use of amphotericin B . Literature reports have suggested that total body irradiation may be a predisposition .
Whenever medication is interrupted for a period longer than 7 days , therapy should be resumed by starting with the lowest dosage level , e . g . , 0 . 25 mg / kg of body weight , and increased gradually as outlined under DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION .
Laboratory Tests Renal function should be monitored frequently during amphotericin B therapy ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
It is also advisable to monitor on a regular basis liver function , serum electrolytes ( particularly magnesium and potassium ) , blood counts , and hemoglobin concentrations .
Laboratory test results should be used as a guide to subsequent dosage adjustments .
Drug Interactions When administered concurrently , the following drugs may interact with amphotericin B : Antineoplastic agents : may enhance the potential for renal toxicity , bronchospasm and hypotension .
Antineoplastic agents ( e . g . , nitrogen mustard , etc . ) should be given concomitantly only with great caution .
Corticosteroids and Corticotropin ( ACTH ) : may potentiate amphotericin B - induced hypokalemia which may predispose the patient to cardiac dysfunction .
Avoid concomitant use unless necessary to control side effects of amphotericin B .
If used concomitantly , closely monitor serum electrolytes and cardiac function ( see ADVERSE REACTIONS ) .
Digitalis glycosides : amphotericin B - induced hypokalemia may potentiate digitalis toxicity .
Serum potassium levels and cardiac function should be closely monitored and any deficit promptly corrected .
Flucytosine : while a synergistic relationship with amphotericin B has been reported , concomitant use may increase the toxicity of flucytosine by possibly increasing its cellular uptake and / or impairing its renal excretion .
Imidazoles ( e . g . , ketoconazole , miconazole , clotrimazole , fluconazole , etc . ) : in vitro and animal studies with the combination of amphotericin B and imidazoles suggest that imidazoles may induce fungal resistance to amphotericin B . Combination therapy should be administered with caution , especially in immunocompromised patients .
Other nephrotoxic medications : agents such as aminoglycosides , cyclosporine , and pentamidine may enhance the potential for drug - induced renal toxicity , and should be used concomitantly only with great caution .
Intensive monitoring of renal function is recommended in patients requiring any combination of nephrotoxic medications ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) .
Skeletal muscle relaxants : amphotericin B - induced hypokalemia may enhance the curariform effect of skeletal muscle relaxants ( e . g . , tubocurarine ) .
Serum potassium levels should be monitored and deficiencies corrected .
Leukocyte transfusions : acute pulmonary toxicity has been reported in patients receiving intravenous amphotericin B and leukocyte transfusions ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility No long - term studies in animals have been performed to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
There also have been no studies to determine mutagenicity or whether this medication affects fertility in males or females .
Pregnancy Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B : Reproduction studies in animals have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to amphotericin B for injection .
Systemic fungal infections have been successfully treated in pregnant women with amphotericin B for injection without obvious effects to the fetus , but the number of cases reported has been small .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , and adequate and well - controlled studies have not been conducted in pregnant women , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly indicated .
Nursing Mothers It is not known whether amphotericin B is excreted in human milk .
Because many drugs are excreted in human milk and considering the potential toxicity of amphotericin B , it is prudent to advise a nursing mother to discontinue nursing .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established through adequate and well - controlled studies .
Systemic fungal infections have been successfully treated in pediatric patients without reports of unusual side effects .
Amphotericin B for Injection when administered to pediatric patients should be limited to the smallest dose compatible with an effective therapeutic regimen .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Although some patients may tolerate full intravenous doses of amphotericin B without difficulty , most will exhibit some intolerance , often at less than the full therapeutic dose .
Tolerance may be improved by treatment with aspirin , antipyretics ( e . g . , acetaminophen ) , antihistamines , or antiemetics .
Meperidine ( 25 to 50 mg IV ) has been shown in some patients to decrease the duration of shaking chills and fever that may accompany the infusion of amphotericin B . Administration of amphotericin B on alternate days may decrease anorexia and phlebitis .
Intravenous administration of small doses of adrenal corticosteroids just prior to or during the amphotericin B infusion may help decrease febrile reactions .
Dosage and duration of such corticosteroid therapy should be kept to a minimum ( see PRECAUTIONS : Drug Interactions ) .
Addition of heparin ( 1000 units per infusion ) , and the use of a pediatric scalp - vein needle may lessen the incidence of thrombophlebitis .
Extravasation may cause chemical irritation .
The adverse reactions most commonly observed are : General ( body as a whole ) : fever ( sometimes accompanied by shaking chills usually occurring within 15 to 20 minutes after initiation of treatment ) ; malaise ; weight loss .
Cardiopulmonary : hypotension ; tachypnea .
Gastrointestinal : anorexia ; nausea ; vomiting ; diarrhea ; dyspepsia ; cramping epigastric pain .
Hematologic : normochromic , normocytic anemia .
Local : pain at the injection site with or without phlebitis or thrombophlebitis .
Musculoskeletal : generalized pain , including muscle and joint pains .
Neurologic : headache .
Renal : decreased renal function and renal function abnormalities including : azotemia , hypokalemia , hyposthenuria , renal tubular acidosis ; and nephrocalcinosis .
These usually improve with interruption of therapy .
However , some permanent impairment often occurs , especially in those patients receiving large amounts ( over 5 g ) of amphotericin B or receiving other nephrotoxic agents .
In some patients hydration and sodium repletion prior to amphotericin B administration may reduce the risk of developing nephrotoxicity .
Supplemental alkali medication may decrease renal tubular acidosis .
The following adverse reactions have also been reported : General ( body as a whole ) : flushing .
Allergic : anaphylactoid and other allergic reactions ; bronchospasm ; wheezing .
Cardiopulmonary : cardiac arrest ; shock ; cardiac failure ; pulmonary edema ; hypersensitivity pneumonitis ; arrhythmias , including ventricular fibrillation ; dyspnea ; hypertension .
Dermatologic : rash , in particular maculopapular ; pruritus .
Skin exfoliation , toxic epidermal necrolysis , and Stevens - Johnson syndrome have been reported during post - marketing surveillance .
Gastrointestinal : acute liver failure ; hepatitis ; jaundice ; hemorrhagic gastroenteritis ; melena .
Hematologic : agranulocytosis ; coagulation defects ; thrombocytopenia ; leukopenia ; eosinophilia ; leukocytosis .
Neurologic : convulsions ; hearing loss ; tinnitus ; transient vertigo ; visual impairment ; diplopia ; peripheral neuropathy ; encephalopathy ( see PRECAUTIONS ) ; other neurologic symptoms .
Renal : acute renal failure ; anuria ; oliguria .
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus has been reported during post - marketing surveillance .
Altered Laboratory Findings Serum Electrolytes : Hypomagnesemia ; hypo - and hyperkalemia ; hypocalcemia .
Liver Function Tests : Elevations of AST , ALT , GGT , bilirubin , and alkaline phosphatase .
Renal Function Tests : Elevations of BUN and serum creatinine .
OVERDOSAGE Amphotericin B overdoses can result in potentially fatal cardiac or cardiopulmonary arrest ( see WARNINGS and DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION ) .
If an overdose is suspected , discontinue therapy and monitor the patient ' s clinical status ( e . g . , cardiorespiratory , renal , and liver function , hematologic status , serum electrolytes ) and administer supportive therapy , as required .
Amphotericin B is not hemodialyzable .
Prior to reinstituting therapy , the patient ' s condition should be stabilized ( including correction of electrolyte deficiencies , etc . ) .
DOSAGE & ADMINISTRATION ** VERIFY PRODUCT NAME AND DOSAGE .
** CAUTION : Under no circumstances should a total daily dose of 1 . 5 mg / kg be exceeded .
Amphotericin B overdoses can result in potentially fatal cardiac or cardiopulmonary arrest ( see WARNINGS and OVERDOSAGE ) .
Amphotericin B for Injection should be administered by slow intravenous infusion .
Intravenous infusion should be given over a period of approximately 2 to 6 hours ( depending on the dose ) observing the usual precautions for intravenous therapy ( see PRECAUTIONS : General ) .
The recommended concentration for intravenous infusion is 0 . 1 mg / mL ( 1 mg / 10 mL ) .
Since patient tolerance varies greatly , the dosage of amphotericin B must be individualized and adjusted according to the patient ' s clinical status ( e . g . , site and severity of infection , etiologic agent , cardio - renal function , etc . ) .
A single intravenous test dose ( 1 mg in 20 mL of 5 % dextrose solution ) administered over 20 to 30 minutes may be preferred .
The patient ' s temperature , pulse , respiration , and blood pressure should be recorded every 30 minutes for 2 to 4 hours .
In patients with good cardio - renal function and a well tolerated test dose , therapy is usually initiated with a daily dose of 0 . 25 mg / kg of body weight .
However , in those patients having severe and rapidly progressive fungal infection , therapy may be initiated with a daily dose of 0 . 3 mg / kg of body weight .
In patients with impaired cardio - renal function or a severe reaction to the test dose , therapy should be initiated with smaller daily doses ( i . e . , 5 to 10 mg ) .
Depending on the patient ' s cardio - renal status ( see PRECAUTIONS : Laboratory Tests ) , doses may gradually be increased by 5 to 10 mg per day to final daily dosage of 0 . 5 to 0 . 7 mg / kg .
There are insufficient data presently available to define total dosage requirements and duration of treatment necessary for eradication of specific mycoses .
The optimal dose is unknown .
Total daily dosage may range up to 1 . 0 mg / kg per day or up to 1 . 5 mg / kg when given on alternate days .
Sporotrichosis : Therapy with intravenous amphotericin B for sporotrichosis has ranged up to nine months with a total dose up to 2 . 5 g . Aspergillosis : Aspergillosis has been treated with amphotericin B intravenously for a period up to 11 months with a total dose up to 3 . 6 g . Rhinocerebral phycomycosis : This fulminating disease generally occurs in association with diabetic ketoacidosis .
It is , therefore , imperative that diabetic control be restored in order for treatment with Amphotericin B for Injection to be successful .
In contradistinction , pulmonary phycomycosis , which is more common in association with hematologic malignancies , is often an incidental finding at autopsy .
A cumulative dose of at least 3 g of amphotericin B is recommended to treat rhinocerebral phycomycosis .
Although a total dose of 3 to 4 g will infrequently cause lasting renal impairment , this would seem a reasonable minimum where there is clinical evidence of invasion of deep tissue .
Since rhinocerebral phycomycosis usually follows a rapidly fatal course , the therapeutic approach must necessarily be more aggressive than that used in more indolent mycoses .
Preparation of Solutions Reconstitute as follows : An initial concentrate of 5 mg amphotericin B per mL is first prepared by rapidly expressing 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP without a bacteriostatic agent directly into the lyophilized cake , using a sterile needle ( minimum diameter : 20 gauge ) and syringe .
Shake the vial immediately until the colloidal solution is clear .
The infusion solution , providing 0 . 1 mg amphotericin B per mL , is then obtained by further dilution ( 1 : 50 ) with 5 % Dextrose Injection USP of pH above 4 . 2 .
The pH of each container of Dextrose Injection should be ascertained before use .
Commercial Dextrose Injection usually has a pH above 4 . 2 ; however , if it is below 4 . 2 , then 1 or 2 mL of buffer should be added to the Dextrose Injection before it is used to dilute the concentrated solution of amphotericin B .
The recommended buffer has the following composition : Dibasic sodium phosphate ( anhydrous ) 1 . 59 g Monobasic sodium phosphate ( anhydrous ) 0 . 96 g Water for Injection USP qs 100 . 0 mL The buffer should be sterilized before it is added to the Dextrose Injection , either by filtration through a bacterial retentive stone , mat , or membrane , or by autoclaving for 30 minutes at 15 lb pressure ( 121 ˚ C ) .
CAUTION : Aseptic technique must be strictly observed in all handling , since no preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in the antibiotic or in the materials used to prepare it for administration .
All entries into the vial or into the diluents must be made with a sterile needle .
Do not reconstitute with saline solutions .
The use of any diluent other than the ones recommended or the presence of a bacteriostatic agent ( e . g . , benzyl alcohol ) in the diluent may cause precipitation of the antibiotic .
Do not use the initial concentrate or the infusion solution if there is any evidence of precipitation or foreign matter in either one .
An in - line membrane filter may be used for intravenous infusion of amphotericin B ; however , the mean pore diameter of the filter should not be less than 1 . 0 micron in order to assure passage of the antibiotic dispersion .
HOW SUPPLIED Amphotericin B for Injection USP Available as single vials providing 50 mg amphotericin B as a yellow to orange lyophilized cake ( which may partially reduce to powder following manufacture ) .
NDC 39822 - 1055 - 5 .
Retain in carton until time of use .
Storage Prior to reconstitution Amphotericin B for Injection USP should be stored under refrigeration , 2 ˚ to 8 ˚ C ( 36 ˚ to 46 ˚ F ) , protected against exposure to light .
The concentrate ( 5 mg amphotericin B per mL after reconstitution with 10 mL Sterile Water for Injection USP ) may be stored in the dark , at room temperature for 24 hours , or at refrigerator temperatures for one week with minimal loss of potency and clarity .
Any unused material should then be discarded .
Solutions prepared for intravenous infusion ( 0 . 1 mg or less amphotericin B per mL ) should be used promptly after preparation and should be protected from light during administration .
Manufactured for : [ MULTIMEDIA ] XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
Big Flats , NY 14814 [ MULTIMEDIA ] Revised October 2020 AM - PI - 05 Printed in the USA [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Vial Label NDC39822 - 1055 - 5 Amphotericin B for Injection , USP 50 mg For Intravenous Infusion Only Rx Only 1 Vial XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
STOP : Verify product name & dosage if dose exceeds 1 . 5 mg / kg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL - Carton NDC 39822 - 1055 - 5 Amphotericin B for Injection , USP 50 mg For Intravenous Infusion Only Rx Only 1 Vial XGen Pharmaceuticals DJB , Inc .
STOP : Verify product name & dosage if dose exceeds 1 . 5 mg / kg [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
