1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Sterile Talc Powder is indicated to decrease the recurrence of malignant pleural effusions in symptomatic patients following maximal drainage of the pleural effusion .
STERILE TALC POWDER is a sclerosing agent indicated to decrease the recurrence of malignant pleural effusions in symptomatic patients following maximal drainage of the pleural effusion .
( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION • The recommended dose is 5 g , dissolved in 50 ml to 100 ml 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP , administered intrapleurally ( 2 . 1 ) • Prepare and administer suspension as recommended ( 2 . 2 ) 2 . 1 Recommended Dose The recommended dose is 5 g , suspended in 50 ml to 100 ml 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP 2 . 2 Preparation Prepare the talc suspension using aseptic technique in an appropriate laminar flow hood as follows : Step 1 .
Using a 16 gauge needle attached to a 60 - ml LuerLok syringe , draw up 50 ml of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride injection , USP .
Vent the talc bottle using a needle .
Slowly inject the 50 ml of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP into the bottle .
Step 2 .
Swirl the bottle to disperse the talc powder .
Step 3 .
Divide the contents of the bottle equally into two 60 ml LuerLok syringes , each attached with a 16 gauge needle , by withdrawing 25 ml of the suspension into each syringe with continuous swirling .
Add 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP to a total volume of 50 ml in each syringe .
Draw 10 ml of air into each syringe to the 60 ml mark to serve as a headspace for mixing prior to administration .
Each syringe should contain 2 . 5 g of Sterile Talc Powder in 50 ml of 0 . 9 % Sodium Chloride Injection , USP with an air headspace of 10 ml .
Step 4 .
Label the syringes with the talc concentration , the expiration date and time , the identity of the patient intended to receive the material , and the following statements : “ SHAKE SYRINGE WELL to resuspend before administration ” “ FOR PLEURODESIS ONLY – not for intravenous administration ” Step 5 .
If not used immediately , store prepared suspension in refrigerator .
Discard the prepared suspension if not used within 12 hours .
2 . 3 Administration Prior to administration , continuously agitate the syringes to evenly redisperse the talc and avoid settlement .
Immediately prior to administration , vent the 10 ml air headspace from each syringe .
Administer the talc suspension through the chest tube according to standard procedures .
3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS 5 gram white or off - white to light gray sterile powder for suspension in a single - dose glass bottle .
5 g powder in a single - dose bottle , for suspension ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS None None .
( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Pneumonitis and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) : Acute Pneumonitis and ARDS , including fatal cases , occur with intrapleural talc administration .
( 5 . 1 ) • Interference with Future Procedures : Sclerosis of the pleural space may preclude or complicate subsequent ipsilateral surgery and diagnostic procedures .
( 5 . 2 ) 5 . 1 Pneumonitis and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ( ARDS ) Acute Pneumonitis and ARDS , including fatal cases , occur with intrapleural talc administration .
5 . 2 Interference with Future Procedures Sclerosis of the pleural space may preclude or complicate subsequent ipsilateral surgery and diagnostic procedures .
Consider the possible effects of the use of Sterile Talc Powder on future diagnostic and therapeutic procedures prior to administration .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions observed with intrapleurally - administered talc are fever and pain .
Other adverse reactions include dyspnea , arrhythmia , empyema , and acute respiratory distress syndrome .
Commonly observed adverse reactions are fever and pain .
( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact Bryan Corporation at 1 - 800 - 343 - 7711 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Pregnancy Category B . Risk Summary A reproduction study performed in rabbits at doses up to approximately 5 times the human dose revealed no evidence of teratogenicity .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women .
Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response , this drug should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed .
Animal Data Rabbits were administered talc by oral gavage daily during the period of organogenesis at doses of up to 900 mg / kg ( approximately 5 times the human dose on a mg / m2 basis ) .
No significant dose - related toxicity was reported except at maternally toxic doses .
In multiple animal studies , intrapleurally administered talc was not absorbed systemically .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness have not been established in pediatric patients .
11 DESCRIPTION STERILE TALC POWDER is a sclerosing agent for intrapleural administration .
STERILE TALC POWDER is white or off - white to light gray , asbestos - free and brucite - free sterile talc powder of controlled particle size .
The powder is ≥ 95 % hydrated magnesium silicate [ Mg3Si4O10 ( OH ) 2 , molecular weight 379 . 3 ] ; associated minerals include chlorite ( hydrated aluminum and magnesium silicate ) , dolomite ( calcium and magnesium carbonate ) , calcite ( calcium carbonate ) , and quartz .
Talc is insoluble in water .
12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Talc instilled into the pleural cavity is thought to result in an inflammatory reaction .
This reaction can promote adherence of the visceral and parietal pleura , which may prevent reaccumulation of pleural fluid .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Studies on the carcinogenicity of talc have been performed using non - standard designs which prevent firm conclusions on its carcinogenicity .
With single intraperitoneal administration to mice at 20 mg and observation for at least 6 months or 4 weekly doses administered intraperitoneally at 25 mg / dose to rats with observation for at least 84 weeks , tumor incidence was not increased .
In these studies the talc and its asbestos content were not characterized .
Genotoxicity was tested in cultures of rat pleural mesothelial cells ( RPMC ) as unscheduled DNA synthesis ( UDS ) and sister chromatid exchanges ( SCEs ) .
None of the talc samples ( which were asbestos - free ) induced enhancement of UDS or SCEs in treated cultures .
No information is available on impairment of fertility in animals by talc .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING STERILE TALC POWDER is supplied in a single use 100 ml brown glass bottle , sealed with a gray , 20 mm stopper and covered with a flip - off seal .
NDC 63256 - 200 - 05 : 5 gram individual bottle packaged in a pouch .
NDC 63256 - 200 - 10 : Carton of ten ( 10 ) 5 - gram bottles .
Store the powder at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect against sunlight .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION Advise patients to notify their healthcare provider if new or worsening pulmonary symptoms develop [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
Distributed by : Bryan Corporation .
Woburn , MA 01801 .
Principal Display Panel - Bottle Label Sterile Talc Powder ™ ( Talc ) Powder Contains 5 grams of sterile talc per bottle For Intrapleural Administration Refer to the Prescribing Information for dosage and preparation .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect against sunlight .
Distributed By : Bryan Corporation Lot # Woburn , MA 01801 Expired : Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Pouch Label Sterile Talc Powder ™ NDC 63256 - 200 - 05 ( Talc ) Powder Contains 5 grams of sterile talc per bottle 1 Bottle For Intrapleural Administration Refer to the Prescribing Information for dosage and preparation .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protects against sunlight .
Distributed By : Bryan Corporation Lot # Woburn , MA 01801 Expired : Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Principal Display Panel - Box Label Sterile Talc Powder ™ NDC 63256 - 200 - 10 ( Talc ) Powder Contains 5 grams of sterile talc per bottle 10 Bottles For Intrapleural Administration Refer to the Prescribing Information for dosage and preparation .
Store at 25 ° C ( 77 ° F ) ; excursions permitted between 15 ° C to 30 ° C ( 59 ° F - 86 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Distributed By : Bryan Corporation Lot # Woburn , MA 01801 Expired : Rx Only [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
