1 INDICATIONS AND USAGE Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Improvement is manifested by relief of muscle spasm and its associated signs and symptoms , namely , pain , tenderness , and limitation of motion .
Limitations of Use : • • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be used only for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) because adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use is not available and because muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions is generally of short duration and specific therapy for longer periods is seldom warranted .
• • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules have not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity associated with cerebral or spinal cord disease or in children with cerebral palsy .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are muscle relaxant indicated as an adjunct to rest and physical therapy for relief of muscle spasm associated with acute , painful musculoskeletal conditions .
( 1 ) Limitations of Use : • • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be used only for short periods ( up to 2 or 3 weeks ) ( 1 ) • • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules have not been found effective in the treatment of spasticity or cerebral palsy ( 1 ) 2 DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended adult dose for most patients is one ( 1 ) cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule , 15 mg taken once daily .
Some patients may require up to 30 mg / day , given as one ( 1 ) cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule , 30 mg taken once daily or as two ( 2 ) cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , 15 mg taken once daily .
• • It is recommended that doses be taken at approximately the same time each day .
• • Use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for periods longer than two or three weeks is not recommended [ see Indications and Usage ( 1 ) ] .
Instruct patients to swallow cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules intact .
Alternatively , the contents of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may be sprinkled over applesauce and then swallowed .
This method is appropriate only for patients able to reliably swallow the applesauce without chewing .
Other foods have not been tested and should not be substituted for applesauce .
Instruct the patient to : • • Sprinkle the contents of the capsule onto a tablespoon of applesauce and consume immediately without chewing .
• • Rinse the mouth to ensure all of the contents have been swallowed .
• • Discard any unused portion of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules after the contents have been sprinkled on applesauce .
• • Recommended adult dose for most patients is 15 mg taken once daily .
Some patients may require 30 mg taken once daily ( 2 ) • • Recommended to take doses at approximately same time each day ( 2 ) • • Instruct patients to swallow cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules intact or to sprinkle capsule contents on a tablespoon of applesauce and swallow immediately without chewing ( 2 ) • • Use for periods longer than 2 or 3 weeks is not recommended ( 2 ) 3 DOSAGE FORMS AND STRENGTHS Extended - release capsules USP in the following strengths : • • 15 mg : Capsules are dark orange cap / red opaque body and are imprinted with black ink with “ T035 ” on the body and cap .
• • 30 mg : Capsules are orange opaque cap / white opaque body and are imprinted with black ink with “ T036 ” on the body and cap .
• • Extended - release capsules : 15 and 30 mg ( 3 ) 4 CONTRAINDICATIONS • • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product .
These adverse reactions may manifest as an anaphylactic reaction , urticaria , facial and / or tongue swelling , or pruritus .
Discontinue cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules if a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected .
• • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
Hyperpyretic crisis seizures and deaths have occurred in patients receiving cyclobenzaprine ( or structurally similar tricyclic antidepressants ) concomitantly with MAO inhibitor drugs .
• • During the acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction , and in patients with arrhythmias , heart block or conduction disturbances , or congestive heart failure .
• • Hyperthyroidism .
• • Hypersensitivity to any component of this product ( 4 ) • • Concomitant use of monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation ( 4 ) • • During acute recovery phase of myocardial infarction , and in patients with arrhythmias , heart block or conduction disturbances , or congestive heart failure ( 4 ) • • Hyperthyroidism ( 4 ) 5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • • Serotonin syndrome has been reported with cyclobenzaprine when used in combination with other serotonergic drugs ( 5 . 1 ) • • Cyclobenzaprine is structurally related to tricyclic antidepressants which have been reported to produce adverse cardiovascular effects or CNS depressant effects ( 5 . 2 ) • • Use in the elderly is not recommended ( 5 . 3 ) • • Use in patients with hepatic impairment is not recommended ( 5 . 4 ) • • Use with caution in patients with a history of urinary retention , angle - closure glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure and in patients taking anticholinergic medications ( 5 . 5 ) 5 . 1 Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life - threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with cyclobenzaprine when used in combination with other drugs , such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors ( SNRIs ) , tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors .
The concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with MAO inhibitors is contraindicated [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes ( e . g . , confusion , agitation , hallucinations ) , autonomic instability ( e . g . , diaphoresis , tachycardia , labile blood pressure , hyperthermia ) , neuromuscular abnormalities ( e . g . , tremor , ataxia , hyperreflexia , clonus , muscle rigidity ) , and / or gastrointestinal symptoms ( e . g . , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ) .
Treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above reactions occur and supportive symptomatic treatment should be initiated .
If concomitant treatment with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted , careful observation is advised , particularly during treatment initiation or dose increases .
5 . 2 Tricyclic Antidepressant - like Effects Cyclobenzaprine is structurally related to the tricyclic antidepressants , e . g . , amitriptyline and imipramine .
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to produce arrhythmias , sinus tachycardia , prolongation of the conduction time leading to myocardial infarction and stroke [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants .
Some of the more serious central nervous system ( CNS ) reactions noted with the tricyclic antidepressants have occurred in short - term studies of cyclobenzaprine for indications other than muscle spasm associated with acute musculoskeletal conditions , and usually at doses somewhat greater than those recommended for skeletal muscle spasm .
If clinically significant CNS symptoms develop , consider discontinuation of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
5 . 3 Use in the Elderly As a result of a 40 % increase in cyclobenzaprine plasma levels and a 56 % increase in plasma half - life following administration of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in elderly subjects as compared to young adults , use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is not recommended in the elderly [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 4 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment As a result of two - fold higher cyclobenzaprine plasma levels in subjects with mild hepatic impairment , as compared to healthy subjects , following administration of immediate - release cyclobenzaprine and because there is limited dosing flexibility with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is not recommended in patients with mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
5 . 5 Atropine - like Action Because of its atropine - like action , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should be used with caution in patients with a history of urinary retention , angle - closure glaucoma , increased intraocular pressure , and in patients taking anticholinergic medication .
6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following clinically significant reactions are described in greater detail , in other sections .
• • Serotonin Syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] • • Adverse Cardiovascular Effects [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 2 ) ] Most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % in any treatment group and greater than placebo ) : dry mouth , dizziness , fatigue , constipation , nausea , dyspepsia , and somnolence ( 6 ) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS , contact TWi Pharmaceuticals at 1 - 844 - 518 - 2989 or FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 or www . fda . gov / medwatch .
6 . 1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions , adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice .
The data described below reflect exposure to cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in 253 patients in 2 clinical trials .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules were studied in two double - blind , parallel - group , placebo - controlled , active - controlled trials of identical design [ see Clinical Studies ( 14 ) ] .
The study population was composed of patients with muscle spasms associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
Patients received 15 mg or 30 mg of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules taken orally once daily , cyclobenzaprine immediate - release ( IR ) 10 mg three times a day , or placebo for 14 days .
The most common adverse reactions ( incidence ≥ 3 % in any treatment group and greater than placebo ) were dry mouth , dizziness , fatigue , constipation , nausea , dyspepsia , and somnolence ( see Table 1 ) .
Table 1 : Incidence of the Most Common Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥ 3 % of Patients in any Treatment Group * and Greater Than Placebo in the Two Phase 3 , Double - Blind Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules Trials Placebo Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 30 mg N = 128 N = 127 N = 126 Dry mouth 2 % 6 % 14 % Dizziness 2 % 3 % 6 % Fatigue 2 % 3 % 3 % Constipation 0 % 1 % 3 % Somnolence 0 % 1 % 2 % Nausea 1 % 3 % 3 % Dyspepsia 1 % 0 % 4 % * Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg QD , Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 30 mg QD , or cyclobenzaprine IR tablets TID 6 . 2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported in clinical studies or postmarketing experience with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , cyclobenzaprine IR , or tricyclic drugs .
Because some of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In a postmarketing surveillance program of cyclobenzaprine IR , the adverse reactions reported most frequently were drowsiness , dry mouth , and dizziness and adverse reactions reported in 1 % to 3 % of the patients were : fatigue / tiredness , asthenia , nausea , constipation , dyspepsia , unpleasant taste , blurred vision , headache , nervousness , and confusion .
The following adverse reactions have been reported in postmarketing experience ( cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules or cyclobenzaprine IR ) , in clinical studies of cyclobenzaprine IR ( incidence < 1 % ) , or in postmarketing experience with other tricyclic drugs : Body as a Whole : Syncope ; malaise ; chest pain ; edema .
Cardiovascular : Tachycardia ; arrhythmia ; vasodilatation ; palpitation ; hypotension ; hypertension ; myocardial infarction ; heart block ; stroke .
Digestive : Vomiting ; anorexia ; diarrhea ; gastrointestinal pain ; gastritis ; thirst ; flatulence ; edema of the tongue ; abnormal liver function and rare reports of hepatitis , jaundice , and cholestasis ; paralytic ileus , tongue discoloration ; stomatitis ; parotid swelling .
Endocrine : Inappropriate ADH syndrome .
Hematologic and Lymphatic : Purpura ; bone marrow depression ; leukopenia ; eosinophilia ; thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity : Anaphylaxis ; angioedema ; pruritus ; facial edema ; urticaria ; rash .
Metabolic , Nutritional , and Immune : Elevation and lowering of blood sugar levels ; weight gain or loss .
Musculoskeletal : Local weakness ; myalgia .
Nervous System and Psychiatric : Seizures , ataxia ; vertigo ; dysarthria ; tremors ; hypertonia ; convulsions ; muscle twitching ; disorientation ; insomnia ; depressed mood ; abnormal sensations ; anxiety ; agitation ; psychosis , abnormal thinking and dreaming ; hallucinations ; excitement ; paresthesia ; diplopia ; serotonin syndrome ; neuroleptic malignant syndrome ; decreased or increased libido ; abnormal gait ; delusions ; aggressive behavior ; paranoia ; peripheral neuropathy ; Bell ’ s palsy ; alteration in EEG patterns ; extrapyramidal symptoms .
Respiratory : Dyspnea .
Skin : Sweating ; photosensitization ; alopecia .
Special Senses : Ageusia ; tinnitus .
Urogenital : Urinary frequency and / or retention ; impaired urination ; dilatation of urinary tract ; impotence ; testicular swelling ; gynecomastia ; breast enlargement ; galactorrhea .
7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Based on its structural similarity to tricyclic antidepressants , cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may have life - threatening interactions with MAO inhibitors [ see Contraindications ( 4 ) ] , may enhance the effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants , may enhance the seizure risk in patients taking tramadol , or may block the antihypertensive action of guanethidine and similarly acting compounds .
Postmarketing cases of serotonin syndrome have been reported during combined use of cyclobenzaprine and other drugs , such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] .
• • MAO Inhibitors : Life - threatening interactions may occur ( 4 , 7 ) • • Serotonergic Drugs : Serotonin syndrome has been reported ( 5 . 1 , 7 ) • • CNS Depressants : Effects of alcohol , barbiturates , and other CNS depressants may be enhanced ( 5 . 2 , 7 ) • • Tramadol : Seizure risk may be enhanced ( 7 ) • • Guanethidine : Antihypertensive effect may be blocked ( 7 ) 8 USE IN SPECIFIC POPULATIONS 8 . 1 Pregnancy Risk Summary Available data from case reports with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules use in pregnancy have not identified a drug - associated risk of major birth defects , miscarriage , or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes .
In rats , decreased pup body weight and survival was noted at cyclobenzaprine doses ≥ 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately ≥ 3 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 30 mg / day ) , when administered orally during pregnancy and lactation ( see Data ) .
The estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations is unknown .
All pregnancies have a background risk of birth defect , loss , or other adverse outcomes .
In the US general population , the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2 % to 4 % and 15 % to 20 % , respectively .
Data Animal Data No adverse embryofetal effects were reported following oral administration of cyclobenzaprine during organogenesis to mice and rabbits at maternal doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 and 15 times the MRHD , respectively , on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Maternal toxicity characterized by decreased body weight gain was observed only in mice at the highest tested dose of 20 mg / kg / day .
Decreased pup body weight and survival were reported in a prenatal and postnatal study where pregnant rats were treated orally with cyclobenzaprine during pregnancy and lactation with maternal doses of 10 and 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 and 6 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
Maternal toxicity , characterized by a decreased body weight gain , was observed only at the highest tested dose of 20 mg / kg / day .
8 . 2 Lactation Risk Summary There are no data on the presence of cyclobenzaprine in either human or animal milk , the effects on a breastfed infant , or the effects on milk production .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ’ s clinical need for cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules or from the underlying maternal condition .
8 . 4 Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules have not been studied in pediatric patients .
8 . 5 Geriatric Use Clinical studies of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine the safety and efficacy of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in the elderly population .
The plasma concentration and half - life of cyclobenzaprine are substantially increased in the elderly when compared to the general patient population .
Accordingly , use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is not recommended in the elderly [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 3 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
8 . 6 Hepatic Impairment The use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is not recommended in patients with mild , moderate , or severe hepatic impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 4 ) and Clinical Pharmacology ( 12 . 3 ) ] .
9 DRUG ABUSE AND DEPENDENCE 9 . 3 Dependence Pharmacologic similarities among the tricyclic drugs require that certain withdrawal symptoms be considered when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are administered , even though they have not been reported to occur with this drug .
Abrupt cessation of treatment after prolonged administration rarely may produce nausea , headache , and malaise .
These are not indicative of addiction .
10 OVERDOSAGE 10 . 1 Manifestations Although rare , deaths may occur from overdosage with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Multiple drug ingestion ( including alcohol ) is common in deliberate cyclobenzaprine overdose .
As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
Signs and symptoms of toxicity may develop rapidly after cyclobenzaprine overdose ; therefore , hospital monitoring is required as soon as possible .
The most common effects associated with cyclobenzaprine overdose are drowsiness and tachycardia .
Less frequent manifestations include tremor , agitation , coma , ataxia , hypertension , slurred speech , confusion , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , and hallucinations .
Rare but potentially critical manifestations of overdose are cardiac arrest , chest pain , cardiac dysrhythmias , severe hypotension , seizures , and neuroleptic malignant syndrome .
Changes in the electrocardiogram , particularly in QRS axis or width , are clinically significant indicators of cyclobenzaprine toxicity .
Other potential effects of overdosage include any of the symptoms listed under Adverse Reactions ( 6 ) .
10 . 2 Management General As management of overdose is complex and changing , it is recommended that the physician contact a poison control center for current information on treatment .
In order to protect against the rare but potentially critical manifestations described above , obtain an ECG and immediately initiate cardiac monitoring .
Protect the patient ’ s airway , establish an intravenous line , and initiate gastric decontamination .
Observation with cardiac monitoring and observation for signs of CNS or respiratory depression , hypotension , cardiac dysrhythmias and / or conduction blocks , and seizures is necessary .
If signs of toxicity occur at any time during this period , extended monitoring is required .
Monitoring of plasma drug levels should not guide management of the patient .
Dialysis is probably of no value because of low plasma concentrations of the drug .
Gastrointestinal Decontamination All patients suspected of an overdose with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should receive gastrointestinal decontamination .
This should include large volume gastric lavage followed by activated charcoal .
If consciousness is impaired , the airway should be secured prior to lavage and emesis is contraindicated .
Cardiovascular A maximal limb - lead QRS duration of 0 . 10 seconds may be the best indication of the severity of the overdose .
Serum alkalinization , to a pH of 7 . 45 to 7 . 55 , using intravenous sodium bicarbonate and hyperventilation ( as needed ) , should be instituted for patients with dysrhythmias and / or QRS widening .
A pH > 7 . 60 or a pCO2 < 20 mmHg is undesirable .
Dysrhythmias unresponsive to sodium bicarbonate therapy / hyperventilation may respond to lidocaine , bretylium , or phenytoin .
Type 1 A and 1 C antiarrhythmics are generally contraindicated ( e . g . , quinidine , disopyramide , and procainamide ) .
CNS In patients with CNS depression , early intubation is advised because of the potential for abrupt deterioration .
Seizures should be controlled with benzodiazepines or , if these are ineffective , other anticonvulsants ( e . g . , phenobarbital , phenytoin ) .
Physostigmine is not recommended except to treat life - threatening symptoms that have been unresponsive to other therapies , and then only in close consultation with a poison control center .
Psychiatric Follow - Up Since overdosage is often deliberate , patients may attempt suicide by other means during the recovery phase .
Psychiatric referral may be appropriate .
Pediatric Management The principles of management of child and adult overdosage are similar .
It is strongly recommended that the physician contact the local poison control center for specific pediatric treatment .
11 DESCRIPTION Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules USP are skeletal muscle relaxant which relieves muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
The active ingredient in cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules is cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride , USP .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride ( HCl ) is a white , crystalline tricyclic amine salt with the empirical formula C20H21N · HCl and a molecular weight of 311 . 9 .
It has a melting point of 217 ° C , and a pKa of 8 . 47 at 25 ° C .
It is freely soluble in water and alcohol , sparingly soluble in isopropanol , and insoluble in hydrocarbon solvents .
If aqueous solutions are made alkaline , the free base separates .
Cyclobenzaprine HCl is designated chemically as 3 - ( 5 H - dibenzo [ a , d ] cyclohepten - 5 - ylidene ) - N , N - dimethyl - 1 - propanamine hydrochloride , and has the following structural formula : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for oral administration are supplied in 15 and 30 mg strengths .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules contain the following inactive ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , ethyl alcohol , ethylcellulose , FDC yellow # 6 , gelatin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , sugar spheres ( which contain sucrose and corn starch ) and titanium dioxide .
In addition , red iron oxide is also included in the 15 mg strength .
The capsule is imprinted with black ink consisting of : black iron oxide , DC Yellow # 10 , ethanol , FDC Blue # 1 , FDC Blue # 2 , FDC Red # 40 , methanol , N - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , and shellac .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] 12 CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY 12 . 1 Mechanism of Action Cyclobenzaprine relieves skeletal muscle spasm of local origin without interfering with muscle function .
Cyclobenzaprine has not been shown to be effective in muscle spasm due to central nervous system disease .
In animal models , cyclobenzaprine reduced or abolished skeletal muscle hyperactivity .
Animal studies indicate that cyclobenzaprine does not act at the neuromuscular junction or directly on skeletal muscle .
Such studies show that cyclobenzaprine acts primarily within the central nervous system at the brain stem as opposed to the spinal cord level , although an overlapping action on the latter may contribute to its overall skeletal muscle relaxant activity .
Evidence suggests that the net effect of cyclobenzaprine is a reduction of tonic somatic motor activity , influencing both gamma ( γ ) and alpha ( α ) motor systems .
Pharmacological studies in animals demonstrated a similarity between the effects of cyclobenzaprine and the structurally related tricyclic antidepressants , including reserpine antagonism , norepinephrine potentiation , potent peripheral and central anticholinergic effects , and sedation .
Cyclobenzaprine caused slight to moderate increase in heart rate in animals .
12 . 3 Pharmacokinetics Absorption Following single - dose administration of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 15 mg and 30 mg in healthy adult subjects ( n = 15 ) , Cmax , AUC0 - 168 h and AUC0 - ∞ increased in an approximately dose - proportional manner from 15 mg to 30 mg .
The time to peak plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration ( Tmax ) was 7 to 8 hours for both doses of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
A food effect study conducted in healthy adult subjects ( n = 15 ) utilizing a single dose of AMRIX 30 mg demonstrated a statistically significant increase in bioavailability when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 30 mg was given with food relative to the fasted state .
There was a 35 % increase in peak plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration ( Cmax ) and a 20 % increase in exposure ( AUC0 - 168 h and AUC0 - ∞ ) in the presence of food .
No effect , however , was noted in Tmax or the shape of the mean plasma cyclobenzaprine concentration versus time profile .
Cyclobenzaprine in plasma was first detectable in both the fed and fasted states at 1 . 5 hours .
When the contents of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules were administered by sprinkling on applesauce , it was found to be bioequivalent to the same dose when administered as an intact capsule .
In a multiple - dose study utilizing cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 30 mg administered once daily for 7 days in a group of healthy adult subjects ( n = 35 ) , a 2 . 5 - fold accumulation of plasma cyclobenzaprine levels was noted at steady - state .
Metabolism and Excretion Cyclobenzaprine is extensively metabolized and is excreted primarily as glucuronides via the kidney .
Cytochromes P - 450 3A4 , 1A2 , and , to a lesser extent , 2D6 , mediate N - demethylation , one of the oxidative pathways for cyclobenzaprine .
Cyclobenzaprine has an elimination half - life of 32 hours ( range 8 - 37 hours ; n = 18 ) ; plasma clearance is 0 . 7 L / min following single - dose administration of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Special Populations Elderly Although there were no notable differences in Cmax or Tmax , cyclobenzaprine plasma AUC is increased by 40 % and the plasma half - life of cyclobenzaprine is prolonged in elderly subjects greater than 65 years of age ( 50 hours ) after dosing with cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules compared to younger subjects 18 to 45 years of age ( 32 hours ) .
Pharmacokinetic characteristics of cyclobenzaprine following multiple - dose administration of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in the elderly were not evaluated .
Hepatic Impairment In a pharmacokinetic study of immediate - release cyclobenzaprine in 16 subjects with hepatic impairment ( 15 mild , 1 moderate per Child - Pugh score ) , both AUC and Cmax were approximately double the values seen in the healthy control group .
The pharmacokinetics of cyclobenzaprine in subjects with severe hepatic impairment is not known .
13 NONCLINICAL TOXICOLOGY 13 . 1 Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Carcinogenesis Long - term studies were conducted in CD - 1 mice and Sprague - Dawley rats with oral cyclobenzaprine to evaluate its carcinogenic potential .
In an 81 - week carcinogenicity study , metastatic hemangiosarcoma was seen in 3 of 21 male mice at 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 2 times the maximum recommended human dose ( MRHD ) of 30 mg / day on a mg / m2 basis ) .
In a 105 - week carcinogenicity study , malignant astrocytoma was seen in 3 of 50 male rats at 10 mg / kg / day ( approximately 3 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
There were no tumor findings in female mice or rats .
Mutagenesis Cyclobenzaprine HCl was not mutagenic or clastogenic in the following assays : an in vitro Ames bacterial mutation assay , in vitro Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell chromosomal aberration test , and in vivo mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay .
Impairment of Fertility Cyclobenzaprine HCl , when administered 70 and 14 days prior to mating to male and female rats , respectively , had no effects on fertility or reproductive performance at oral doses up to 20 mg / kg / day ( approximately 6 . 5 times the MRHD on a mg / m2 basis ) .
13 . 2 Animal Toxicology and / or Pharmacology In a 67 - week study with rats that received cyclobenzaprine at oral doses of 10 , 20 , or 40 mg / kg / day ( 3 to 15 times the MRHD on mg / m2 basis ) , there were findings in the liver consisting of midzonal vacuolation with lipidosis for males and midzonal and centrilobular hepatocytic enlargement for females .
In addition , there were findings of centrilobular coagulative necrosis .
In the higher dose groups , these microscopic changes were seen after 26 weeks and even earlier in rats that died prior to 26 weeks ; at lower doses , these changes were not seen until after 26 weeks .
In a 26 - week study with Cynomolgus monkeys that received cyclobenzaprine at oral of doses of 2 . 5 , 5 , 10 , or 20 mg / kg / day , one monkey at 20 mg / kg / day ( 15 times the MRHD on mg / m2 basis ) was euthanized in week 17 .
Morbidity for this animal was attributed to findings of chronic pancreatitis , cholecystitis , cholangitis , and focal liver necrosis .
14 CLINICAL STUDIES Efficacy was assessed in two double - blind , parallel - group , active - controlled , placebo - controlled studies of identical design of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 15 mg and 30 mg taken once daily , between 6 : 00 and 7 : 00 PM , cyclobenzaprine 10 mg three times a day , or placebo for 14 days in patients with muscle spasms associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions .
There were significant differences in the primary efficacy analysis , the patient ’ s rating of medication helpfulness , between the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 15 mg group and the placebo group at Days 4 and 14 in one study and between the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 30 mg group and the placebo group at Day 4 in the second study .
Table 2 : Patients ’ Rating of Medication Helpfulness - Study 1 * Day 4 Day 14 Number of Patients ( % ) Number of Patients ( % ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 30 mg ( N = 64 ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 30 mg ( N = 64 ) Excellent 1 ( 2 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) 12 ( 19 % ) 15 ( 23 % ) Very Good 5 ( 8 % ) 13 ( 20 % ) 9 ( 14 % ) 19 ( 30 % ) Good 15 ( 23 % ) 22 ( 34 % ) 10 ( 16 % ) 15 ( 23 % ) Fair 24 ( 38 % ) 20 ( 31 % ) 16 ( 25 % ) 10 ( 16 % ) Poor 10 ( 16 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) 9 ( 14 % ) 4 ( 6 % ) Missing 9 ( 14 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) 8 ( 13 % ) 1 ( 2 % ) * Percentages are rounded to the nearest whole percent .
Table 3 : Patients ’ Rating of Medication Helpfulness - Study 2 * Day 4 Day 14 Number of Patients ( % ) Number of Patients ( % ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg ( N = 63 ) Placebo ( N = 64 ) Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules 15 mg ( N = 63 ) Excellent 1 ( 2 % ) 2 ( 3 % ) 10 ( 16 % ) 13 ( 21 % ) Very Good 10 ( 16 % ) 12 ( 19 % ) 12 ( 19 % ) 21 ( 33 % ) Good 14 ( 22 % ) 21 ( 33 % ) 13 ( 20 % ) 9 ( 14 % ) Fair 16 ( 25 % ) 17 ( 27 % ) 14 ( 22 % ) 10 ( 16 % ) Poor 19 ( 30 % ) 6 ( 10 % ) 12 ( 19 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) Missing 4 ( 6 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) 3 ( 5 % ) 5 ( 8 % ) * Percentages are rounded to the nearest whole percent .
In addition , one of the two studies demonstrated significant differences between the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules 30 mg group and the placebo group in terms of patient - rated relief from local pain due to muscle spasm at Day 4 and Day 8 , in patient - rated restriction of movement at Day 4 and Day 8 , and in patient - rated global impression of change at Day 4 , Day 8 , and Day 14 .
In both studies , there were no significant treatment differences between the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules treatment groups and the placebo group in physician ' s global assessment , patient - rated restriction in activities of daily living , or quality of nighttime sleep .
16 HOW SUPPLIED / STORAGE AND HANDLING 16 . 1 How Supplied Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules USP are available in 15 and 30 mg strengths , packaged in bottles of 60 capsules .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules USP , 15 mg are available as hard gelatin capsule with dark orange opaque cap and red opaque body imprinted with “ T035 ” in black ink .
They are supplied as follows : Bottle of 30 NDC 71205 - 857 - 30 Bottle of 60 NDC 71205 - 857 - 60 Bottle of 90 NDC 71205 - 857 - 90 Bottle of 100 NDC 71205 - 857 - 00 Bottle of 120 NDC 71205 - 857 - 72 Bottle of 500 NDC 71205 - 857 - 55 Bottle of 1000 NDC 71205 - 857 - 11 Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules USP , 30 mg are available as hard gelatin capsule with orange opaque cap and white opaque body imprinted with “ T036 ” in black ink .
They are supplied as follows : Bottle of 30 NDC 71205 - 858 - 30 Bottle of 60 NDC 71205 - 858 - 60 Bottle of 90 NDC 71205 - 858 - 90 Bottle of 100 NDC 71205 - 858 - 00 Bottle of 120 NDC 71205 - 858 - 72 Bottle of 500 NDC 71205 - 858 - 55 Bottle of 1000 NDC 71205 - 858 - 11 16 . 2 Storage and Handling Dispense in a tight , light - resistant container as defined in the USP / NF .
Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
17 PATIENT COUNSELING INFORMATION See FDA - approved patient labeling ( Patient Information ) .
• • Instruct patients to swallow cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules intact or to sprinkle capsule contents on a tablespoon of applesauce and swallow immediately without chewing .
• • Advise patients to stop taking cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and to notify their physician right away if they experience symptoms of an allergic reaction , such as difficulty breathing , hives , swelling of face or tongue , or itching .
• • Advise patients that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should not be taken with MAO inhibitors or within 14 days after their discontinuation .
• • Caution patients about the risk of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and other drugs , such as SSRIs , SNRIs , TCAs , tramadol , bupropion , meperidine , verapamil , or MAO inhibitors .
Advise patients of the signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5 . 1 ) ] and instruct patients to seek medical care immediately if they experience these symptoms .
• • Advise patients to stop taking cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and to notify their physician right away if they experience arrhythmias or tachycardia .
• • Advise patients that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may enhance the impairment effects of alcohol .
These effects may also be seen if cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are taken with other CNS depressants .
• • Caution patients about operating an automobile or other hazardous machinery until it is reasonably certain that cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules therapy will not adversely affect their ability to engage in such activities .
• • Advise patients to take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules at approximately the same time each day .
Manufactured for : TWi Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Paramus , NJ 07652 Manufactured by : TWi Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Taoyuan City , 32063 , Taiwan Repackaged or Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks CA 91320 AMRIX is a trademark of Teva Pharmaceuticals International GmbH , or its affiliates .
Patient Information PATIENT INFORMATION Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended Release Capsules USP What are cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are prescription medicine used along with rest and physical therapy to help treat muscle spasm due to acute , painful musculoskeletal problems .
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should only be used for up to 2 or 3 weeks .
It is not known if cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are effective when used for longer periods .
It is not known if cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are safe and effective in children .
Do not take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules if you : • • are allergic to cyclobenzaprine or any of the ingredients in cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
See the end of this Patient Information leaflet for a complete list of ingredients in cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Talk to your healthcare provider or get medical help right away if you have symptoms of an allergic reaction such as : • • difficulty breathing • • hives • • swelling of your face or tongue • • itching • • are taking certain antidepressants , known as monoamine oxidase ( MAO ) inhibitors or it has been 14 days or less since you stopped taking a MAO inhibitor .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist for a list of these medicines if you are not sure .
• • have had a recent heart attack • • have heart rhythm problems ( arrhythmias ) • • have heart failure • • have an overactive thyroid ( hyperthyroidism ) Talk to your healthcare provider before taking this medicine if you have any of the conditions listed above .
Before taking cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , tell your healthcare provider about all of your medical conditions , including if you : • • have a history of eye problems including glaucoma • • have heart problems or have had a heart attack • • have liver problems • • have trouble emptying your bladder ( urinary retention ) • • are pregnant or plan to become pregnant .
It is not known if cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules will harm your unborn baby .
• • are breastfeeding or plan to breastfeed .
It is not known if cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules pass into your breast milk .
Talk to your healthcare provider about the best way to to feed your baby if you take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Tell your healthcare provider about all the medicines you take including prescription and over - the - counter medicines , vitamins , and herbal supplements .
Especially tell your healthcare provider if you take : • • a medicine to treat depression , mood , anxiety , psychotic , or thought disorders • • a pain medicine called tramadol or meperidine • • barbiturates or other medicines that depress your central nervous system ( CNS depressants ) • • a medicine that prevents nerve impulses ( anticholinergic medicines ) • • a medicine to help quit smoking called bupropion • • a blood pressure medicine called verapamil Know the medicines you take .
Keep a list of your medicines and show it to your healthcare provider or pharmacist when you get a new medicine .
How should I take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
• • Take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules exactly as your healthcare provider tells you to take it .
• • Your healthcare provider will tell you how much cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to take and when to take it .
• • Your healthcare provider may change your cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules dose if needed .
• • Take cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules around the same time every day .
• • Swallow cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules whole .
• • If you have difficulty swallowing cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , tell your healthcare provider .
Your healthcare provider may recommend opening the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and mixing the contents with applesauce .
• • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules should only be taken for short periods ( up to two or three weeks ) .
• • If you take too much cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules , call your healthcare provider or go to the nearest hospital emergency room right away .
What should I avoid while taking cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
You should not drink alcohol until you know how cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules affect you .
Taking cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with alcohol or other medicines that depress your central nervous system can slow your thinking and physical response times .
Do not drive , operate machinery , or do other dangerous activities until you know how cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules affect you .
What are the possible side effects of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may cause serious side effects , including : • • Serotonin syndrome is a serious medical condition that may happen when cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules are taken with certain other medicines .
Call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room if you have some or all of these symptoms suggestive of serotonin syndrome : • • agitation , hallucinations , coma , or other changes in mental status • • coordination problems or muscle twitching ( overactive reflexes ) • • fast heartbeat , high or low blood pressure • • sweating or fever • • nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea • • muscle stiffness or tightness • • Cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules may cause serious side effects that may lead to heart attack or stroke .
Call your healthcare provider right away or go to the nearest hospital emergency room if you have : • • irregular or abnormal heartbeats ( arrhythmias ) • • fast heartbeat ( tachycardia ) The most common side effects of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules include : • • dry mouth • • dizziness • • fatigue • • constipation • • nausea • • upset stomach • • drowsiness These are not all the possible side effects of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Call your healthcare provider for medical advice about side effects .
You may report side effects to FDA at 1 - 800 - FDA - 1088 .
How should I store cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
• • Store cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
• • Keep cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules in a tightly closed container , and keep cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules out of light .
• • Keep cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
General information about the safe and effective use of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules .
Medicines are sometimes prescribed for purposes other than those listed in a Patient Information leaflet .
Do not use cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules for a condition for which it was not prescribed .
Do not give cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules to other people , even if they have the same symptoms you have .
It may harm them .
You can ask your pharmacist or healthcare provider for information about cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules that is written for healthcare professionals .
What are the ingredients in cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
Active Ingredient : cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride USP Inactive Ingredients : colloidal silicon dioxide , ethyl alcohol , ethylcellulose , FDC yellow # 6 , gelatin , hydroxypropyl cellulose , isopropyl alcohol , potassium hydroxide , sugar spheres ( which contain sucrose and corn starch ) and titanium dioxide .
In addition , red iron oxide is also included in the 15 mg strength .
The capsule is imprinted with black ink consisting of : black iron oxide , DC Yellow # 10 , ethanol , FDC Blue # 1 , FDC Blue # 2 , FDC Red # 40 , methanol , N - butyl alcohol , propylene glycol , and shellac .
Manufactured for :: TWi Pharmaceuticals USA , Inc .
Paramus , NJ 07652 Manufactured by : TWi Pharmaceuticals , Inc .
Taoyuan City , 32063 , Taiwan Repackaged or Relabeled by : Proficient Rx LP Thousand Oaks CA 91320 Revised : 05 / 2019 AMRIX is a trademark of Teva Pharmaceuticals International GmbH , or its affiliates .
This Patient Information has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules Read this Instructions for Use before you prepare your first dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules mixed with applesauce using the capsule sprinkle method , each time you get a refill , and as needed .
There may be new information .
Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist if you have any questions about how to mix or give a dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules using the capsule sprinkle method .
Important Information : • • Do not chew cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules or the granules that are in the capsules .
• • The capsule sprinkle method for mixing the contents of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules with applesauce may be used for adults who cannot swallow capsules .
Do not use any other food in the place of applesauce .
Preparing a dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules using the capsule sprinkle method .
Before you prepare a dose of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules mixed with applesauce using the capsule sprinkle method , gather the following supplies : • • paper towels • • tablespoon • • applesauce • • cup of water Step 1 : Choose a clean , flat work surface .
Place a clean paper towel on the work surface .
Then place the other supplies on the paper towel .
Step 2 : Wash and dry your hands well .
Step 3 : Check the dose that was prescribed by your healthcare provider .
Take out the number of cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules needed to prepare your dose .
Place them on the paper towel .
Step 4 : Place enough applesauce to fill your tablespoon .
Set the tablespoon down on the paper towel .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 5 : Hold the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule in an upright position ( vertical ) directly over the tablespoon .
Hold each end of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule between your thumbs and index ( pointer ) fingers .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 6 : Carefully twist both ends of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule in opposite directions to open it .
Be careful not to spill the capsule contents .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 7 : Sprinkle the contents of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule onto the applesauce .
• • Check the capsule shells to make sure they are empty .
• • Throw away the empty capsule shells .
If the total prescribed dose is more than 1 capsule , repeat Steps 5 through 7 for each capsule .
Do not add more applesauce .
Then follow the rest of the steps below .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 8 : Pick up the tablespoon and swallow the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule contents and applesauce mixture right away .
Do not chew the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule contents and applesauce mixture .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 9 : Rinse your mouth with a sip of water and swallow to make sure that all of the cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release granules have been swallowed .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Step 10 : Throw away any unused cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule content and applesauce mixture .
Do not keep any cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsule content and applesauce mixture for future use .
How should I store cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules ?
• • Store cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules at room temperature between 68 ° F to 77 ° F ( 20 ° C to 25 ° C ) .
Keep cyclobenzaprine hydrochloride extended - release capsules and all medicines out of the reach of children .
This Instructions for Use has been approved by the U . S . Food and Drug Administration .
Issued : 05 / 2019 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 71205 - 857 - 30 amrix ® ( Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ) 15 mg TEVA Rx ONLY 30 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel NDC 71205 - 858 - 30 amrix ® ( Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Extended - Release Capsules ) 30 mg TEVA Rx ONLY 30 Capsules [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
