FOR INTRAVAGINAL USE ONLY NOT FOR OPHTHALMIC , DERMAL , OR ORAL USE DESCRIPTION Clindamycin phosphate is a water soluble ester of the semi - synthetic antibiotic produced by a 7 ( S ) - chloro - substitution of the 7 ( R ) - hydroxyl group of the parent antibiotic lincomycin .
The chemical name for clindamycin phosphate is methyl 7 - chloro - 6 , 7 , 8 - trideoxy - 6 - ( 1 - methyl - trans - 4 - propyl - L - 2 - pyrrolidinecarboxamido ) - 1 - thio - L - threo - α - D - galacto - octopyranoside 2 - ( dihydrogen phosphate ) .
It has a molecular weight of 504 . 96 , and the molecular formula is C18H34ClN2O8PS .
The structural formula is represented below : [ MULTIMEDIA ] Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream USP , 2 % , is a semi - solid , white cream , which contains 2 % clindamycin phosphate , USP , at a concentration equivalent to 20 mg clindamycin per gram .
The pH of the cream is between 3 . 0 and 6 . 0 .
The cream also contains benzyl alcohol , cetostearyl alcohol , cetyl palmitate , mineral oil , polysorbate 60 , propylene glycol , sorbitan monostearate , stearic acid and purified water .
Each applicatorful of 5 grams of vaginal cream contains approximately 100 mg of clindamycin phosphate .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY Mechanism of Action Clindamycin is an antibacterial drug ( See MICROBIOLOGY ) .
Pharmacokinetics Following a once a day intravaginal dose of 100 mg of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , administered to 6 healthy female volunteers for 7 days , approximately 5 % ( range 0 . 6 % to 11 % ) of the administered dose was absorbed systemically .
The peak serum clindamycin concentration observed on the first day averaged 18 ng / mL ( range 4 to 47 ng / mL ) and on day 7 it averaged 25 ng / mL ( range 6 to 61 ng / mL ) .
These peak concentrations were attained approximately 10 hours post - dosing ( range 4 to 24 hours ) .
Following a once a day intravaginal dose of 100 mg of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , administered for 7 consecutive days to 5 women with bacterial vaginosis , absorption was slower and less variable than that observed in healthy females .
Approximately 5 % ( range 2 % to 8 % ) of the dose was absorbed systemically .
The peak serum clindamycin concentration observed on the first day averaged 13 ng / mL ( range 6 to 34 ng / mL ) and on day 7 it averaged 16 ng / mL ( range 7 to 26 ng / mL ) .
These peak concentrations were attained approximately 14 hours post - dosing ( range 4 to 24 hours ) .
There was little or no systemic accumulation of clindamycin after repeated vaginal dosing of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % .
The systemic half - life was 1 . 5 to 2 . 6 hours .
MICROBIOLOGY Mechanism of Action Clindamycin inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 23 S RNA of the 50 S subunit of the ribosome .
Clindamycin is predominantly bacteriostatic .
Although clindamycin phosphate is inactive in vitro , rapid in vivo hydrolysis converts it to active clindamycin .
Resistance Resistance to clindamycin is most often caused by modification of the target site on the ribosome , usually by chemical modification of RNA bases by point mutations in RNA or occasionally in proteins .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between lincosamides , macrolides and streptogramins B in some organisms .
Cross resistance has been demonstrated between clindamycin and lincomycin .
Antibacterial Activity Culture and sensitivity testing of bacteria are not routinely performed to establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis ( see INDICATIONS AND USAGE ) ; standard methodology for the susceptibility testing of the potential bacterial pathogens , Gardnerella vaginalis , Mobiluncus spp . , or Mycoplasma hominis , has not been defined .
The following in vitro data are available but their clinical significance is unknown .
Clindamycin is active in vitro against most isolates of the following organisms reported to be associated with bacterial vaginosis : • Bacteroides spp .
• Gardnerella vaginalis • Mobiluncus spp .
• Mycoplasma hominis • Peptostreptococcus spp .
INDICATIONS AND USAGE Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , is indicated in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis ( formerly referred to as Haemophilus vaginitis , Gardnerella vaginitis , nonspecific vaginitis , Corynebacterium vaginitis , or anaerobic vaginosis ) .
Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , can be used to treat non - pregnant women and pregnant women during the second and third trimester .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
NOTE : For purposes of this indication , a clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis is usually defined by the presence of a homogeneous vaginal discharge that ( a ) has a pH of greater than 4 . 5 , ( b ) emits a " fishy " amine odor when mixed with a 10 % KOH solution , and ( c ) contains clue cells on microscopic examination .
Gram ' s stain results consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include ( a ) markedly reduced or absent Lactobacillus morphology , ( b ) predominance of Gardnerella morphotype , and ( c ) absent or few white blood cells .
Other pathogens commonly associated with vulvovaginitis , eg , Trichomonas vaginalis , Chlamydia trachomatis , N . gonorrhoeae , Candida albicans , and Herpes simplex virus should be ruled out .
CONTRAINDICATIONS Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , is contraindicated in individuals with a history of hypersensitivity to clindamycin , lincomycin , or any of the components of this vaginal cream .
Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , is also contraindicated in individuals with a history of regional enteritis , ulcerative colitis , or a history of " antibiotic - associated " colitis .
WARNINGS Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents , including clindamycin , and may range in severity from mild to life - threatening .
Orally and parenterally administered clindamycin has been associated with severe colitis which may end fatally .
Diarrhea , bloody diarrhea , and colitis ( including pseudomembranous colitis ) have been reported with the use of orally and parenterally administered clindamycin , as well as with topical ( dermal and vaginal ) formulations of clindamycin .
Therefore , it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of clindamycin , even when administered by the vaginal route , because approximately 5 % of the clindamycin dose is systemically absorbed from the vagina .
Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia .
Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridioides difficile is a primary cause of " antibiotic - associated ′′ colitis .
After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established , therapeutic measures should be initiated .
Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone .
In moderate to severe cases , consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes , protein supplementation , and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridioides difficile colitis .
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antimicrobial treatment .
PRECAUTIONS General Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , contains ingredients that will cause burning and irritation of the eye .
In the event of accidental contact with the eye , rinse the eye with copious amounts of cool tap water .
The use of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % may result in the overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms in the vagina .
In clinical studies involving 600 non - pregnant women who received treatment for 3 days , Candida albicans was detected , either symptomatically or by culture , in 8 . 8 % of patients .
In 9 % of the patients , vaginitis was recorded .
In clinical studies involving 1325 non - pregnant women who received treatment for 7 days , Candida albicans was detected , either symptomatically or by culture , in 10 . 5 % of patients .
Vaginitis was recorded in 10 . 7 % of the patients .
In 180 pregnant women who received treatment for 7 days , Candida albicans was detected , either symptomatically or by culture , in 13 . 3 % of patients .
In 7 . 2 % of the patients , vaginitis was recorded .
Candida albicans , as reported here , includes the terms : vaginal moniliasis and moniliasis ( body as a whole ) .
Vaginitis includes the terms : vulvovaginal disorder , vulvovaginitis , vaginal discharge , trichomonal vaginitis , and vaginitis .
Information for the Patient : The patient should be instructed not to engage in vaginal intercourse , or use other vaginal products ( such as tampons or douches ) during treatment with this product .
The patient should also be advised that this cream contains mineral oil that may weaken latex or rubber products such as condoms or vaginal contraceptive diaphragms .
Therefore , use of such products within 72 hours following treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , is not recommended .
Drug Interactions Systemic clindamycin has been shown to have neuromuscular blocking properties that may enhance the action of other neuromuscular blocking agents .
Therefore , it should be used with caution in patients receiving such agents .
Carcinogenesis , Mutagenesis , Impairment of Fertility Long term studies in animals have not been performed with clindamycin to evaluate carcinogenic potential .
Genotoxicity tests performed included a rat micronucleus test and an Ames test .
Both tests were negative .
Fertility studies in rats treated orally with up to 300 mg / kg / day ( 31 times the human exposure based on mg / m2 ) revealed no effects on fertility or mating ability .
Pregnancy : Teratogenic effects In clinical trials with pregnant women , the systemic administration of clindamycin during the second and third trimesters , has not been associated with an increased frequency of congenital abnormalities .
Clindamycin vaginal cream should be used during the first trimester of pregnancy only if clearly needed and the benefits outweigh the risks .
There are no adequate and well - controlled studies in pregnant women during the first trimester of pregnancy .
Clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % has been studied in pregnant women during the second trimester .
In women treated for seven days , abnormal labor was reported in 1 . 1 % of patients who received clindamycin vaginal cream 2 % compared with 0 . 5 % of patients who received placebo .
Reproduction studies have been performed in rats and mice using oral and parenteral doses of clindamycin up to 600 mg / kg / day ( 62 and 25 times , respectively , the maximum human exposure based on body surface area ) and have revealed no evidence of harm to the fetus due to clindamycin .
Cleft palates were observed in fetuses from one mouse strain treated intraperitoneally with clindamycin at 200 mg / kg / day ( about 10 times the recommended dose based on body surface area conversions ) .
Since this effect was not observed in other mouse strains or in other species , the effect may be strain specific .
Nursing Mothers Limited published data based on breast milk sampling reports that clindamycin appears in human breast milk in the range of less than 0 . 5 to 3 . 8 mcg / mL at dosages of 150 mg orally to 600 mg intravenously .
It is not known if clindamycin is excreted in human breast milk following the use of vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate .
Clindamycin has the potential to cause adverse effects on the breast - fed infant ' s gastrointestinal flora .
If clindamycin is required by a nursing mother , it is not a reason to discontinue breastfeeding , but an alternate drug may be preferred .
Monitor the breast - fed infant for possible adverse effects on the gastrointestinal flora , such as diarrhea , candidiasis ( thrush , diaper rash ) or rarely , blood in the stool indicating possible antibiotic - associated colitis .
The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother ' s clinical need for clindamycin and any potential adverse effects on the breast - fed child from clindamycin or from the underlying maternal condition .
Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established .
Geriatric Use Clinical studies for clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects .
Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in responses between the elderly and younger patients .
ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical trials Non - pregnant Women In clinical trials involving non - pregnant women , 1 . 8 % of 600 patients who received treatment with clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % for 3 days and 2 . 7 % of 1325 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug - related adverse events .
Medical events judged to be related , probably related , possibly related , or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , were reported for 20 . 7 % of the patients receiving treatment for 3 days and 21 . 3 % of the patients receiving treatment for 7 days .
Events occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients receiving clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % are shown in Table 1 .
TABLE 1 – Events Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Non - pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % Event Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % 3 Day n = 600 7 Day n = 1325 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 7 . 7 10 . 4 Vulvovaginitis 6 . 0 4 . 4 Vulvovaginal disorder 3 . 2 5 . 3 Trichomonal vaginitis 0 1 . 3 Body as a Whole Moniliasis ( body ) 1 . 3 0 . 2 Other events occurring in < 1 % of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2 % groups include : Urogenital system : vaginal discharge , metrorrhagia , urinary tract infection , endometriosis , menstrual disorder , vaginitis / vaginal infection , and vaginal pain .
Body as a whole : localized abdominal pain , generalized abdominal pain , abdominal cramps , halitosis , headache , bacterial infection , inflammatory swelling , allergic reaction , and fungal infection .
Digestive system : nausea , vomiting , constipation , dyspepsia , flatulence , diarrhea , and gastrointestinal disorder .
Endocrine system : hyperthyroidism .
Central nervous system : dizziness and vertigo .
Respiratory system : epistaxis .
Skin : pruritus ( non - application site ) , moniliasis , rash , maculopapular rash , erythema , and urticaria .
Special senses : taste perversion .
Pregnant Women In a clinical trial involving pregnant women during the second trimester , 1 . 7 % of 180 patients who received treatment for 7 days discontinued therapy due to drug - related adverse events .
Medical events judged to be related , probably related , possibly related , or of unknown relationship to vaginally administered clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , were reported for 22 . 8 % of pregnant patients .
Events occurring in ≥ 1 % of patients receiving either clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % or placebo are shown in Table 2 .
TABLE 2 - Events Occurring in ≥ 1 % of Pregnant Patients Receiving Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % or Placebo Event Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % Placebo 7 DAY n = 180 7 Day n = 184 Urogenital Vaginal moniliasis 13 . 3 7 . 1 Vulvovaginal disorder 6 . 7 7 . 1 Abnormal labor 1 . 1 0 . 5 Body as a Whole Fungal infection 1 . 7 0 Skin Pruritus , non - application site 1 . 1 0 Other events occurring in < 1 % of the clindamycin vaginal cream 2 % group include : Urogenital system : dysuria , metrorrhagia , vaginal pain , and trichomonal vaginitis .
Body as a whole : upper respiratory infection .
Skin : pruritus ( topical application site ) and erythema .
Post - marketing Experience Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size , it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure .
In the post - marketing period , there have been case reports of pseudomembranous colitis with the use of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream .
Other clindamycin formulations Clindamycin vaginal cream affords minimal peak serum levels and systemic exposure ( AUCs ) of clindamycin compared to 100 mg oral clindamycin dosing .
Although these lower levels of exposure are less likely to produce the common reactions seen with oral clindamycin , the possibility of these and other reactions cannot be excluded presently .
Data from well - controlled trials directly comparing clindamycin administered orally to clindamycin administered vaginally are not available .
The following adverse reactions and altered laboratory tests have been reported with the oral or parenteral use of clindamycin : Infections and Infestations : Clostridioides difficile colitis Gastrointestinal : Abdominal pain , esophagitis , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea and pseudomembranous colitis .
( See WARNINGS . )
Hematopoietic : Transient neutropenia ( leukopenia ) , eosinophilia , agranulocytosis , and thrombocytopenia have been reported .
No direct etiologic relationship to concurrent clindamycin therapy could be made in any of these reports .
Hypersensitivity Reactions : Maculopapular rash and urticaria have been observed during drug therapy .
Generalized mild to moderate morbilliform - like skin rashes are the most frequently reported of all adverse reactions .
Cases of Acute Generalized Exanthematous Pustulosis ( AGEP ) , erythema multiforme , some resembling Stevens - Johnson syndrome , have been associated with clindamycin .
A few cases of anaphylactoid reactions have been reported .
If a hypersensitivity reaction occurs , the drug should be discontinued .
Liver : Jaundice and abnormalities in liver function tests have been observed during clindamycin therapy .
Musculoskeletal : Cases of polyarthritis have been reported .
Renal : Acute kidney injury Immune System : Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms ( DRESS ) cases have been reported .
OVERDOSAGE Vaginally applied clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % could be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects .
( See WARNINGS . )
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION The recommended dose is one applicatorful of clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % , ( 5 grams containing approximately 100 mg of clindamycin phosphate ) intravaginally , preferably at bedtime , for 3 or 7 consecutive days in non - pregnant patients and for 7 consecutive days in pregnant patients .
( See CLINICAL STUDIES . )
HOW SUPPLIED Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream USP , 2 % is supplied as follows : 40 g tube ( with 7 disposable applicators ) NDC 0168 - 0277 - 40 Store at 20 ° to 25 ° C ( 68 ° to 77 ° F ) [ see USP Controlled Room Temperature ] .
Protect from freezing .
CLINICAL STUDIES In two clinical studies involving 674 evaluable non - pregnant women with bacterial vaginosis comparing clindamycin phosphate vaginal cream 2 % for 3 or 7 days , the clinical cure rates , determined at 1 month posttherapy , ranged from 72 % to 81 % for the 3 - day treatment and 84 % to 86 % for the 7 - day treatment .
Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % 3 Day Clindamycin Phosphate Vaginal Cream 2 % 7 Day US Study European Study 94 / 131 161 / 199 72 % 81 % 110 / 128 181 / 216 86 % 84 % In a clinical study involving 249 evaluable pregnant patients in the second and third trimester treated for 7 days , the clinical cure rate , determined at 1 month posttherapy , was 60 % ( 77 / 129 ) in the clindamycin arm and 9 % ( 11 / 120 ) for the vehicle arm .
The determination of clinical cure was based on the absence of a " fishy " amine odor when the vaginal discharge was mixed with a 10 % KOH solution and the absence of clue cells on microscopic examination .
Rx only E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera PHARMACEUTICALS INC .
Melville , New York 11747 46311926 A R06 / 2022 # 116 DIRECTIONS FOR USE 7 Disposable plastic applicators are provided with this package .
They are designed to allow proper vaginal administration of the cream .
Remove cap from cream tube .
Screw a plastic applicator on the threaded end of the tube .
Rolling tube from the bottom , squeeze gently and force the medication into the applicator .
The applicator is filled when the plunger reaches its predetermined stopping point .
Unscrew the applicator from the tube and replace the cap .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] While lying on your back , firmly grasp the applicator barrel and insert into vagina as far as possible without causing discomfort .
Slowly push the plunger until it stops .
Carefully withdraw applicator from vagina , and discard applicator .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] REMEMBER TO APPLY ONE APPLICATORFUL EACH NIGHT BEFORE BEDTIME , OR AS PRESCRIBED BY YOUR DOCTOR .
INSTRUCCIONES PARA LA PACIENTE Este envase contiene 7 aplicadores de plástico desechables .
Los aplicadores están diseñados para la administración apropiada de la crema en la vagina .
Remueva la tapa del tubo de crema y enrosque el aplicador de plástico al tubo .
Exprima el tubo suavemente desde el extremo inferior y fuerce el medicamento al aplicador .
El aplicador estará lleno cuando el émbolo llega a su máxima longitud .
Desenrosque el aplicador del tubo y vuelva a poner la tapa .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] Acuéstese de espalda y agarrando firmemente el aplicador , introdúzcalo en la vagina tanto como sea posible sin causar molestias .
Empuje lentamente el émbolo hasta que se detenga .
Saque el aplicador cuidadosamente de la vagina y descártelo .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] RECUERDE APLICARSE UN APLICADOR LLENO TODAS LAS NOCHES AL ACOSTARSE , O DE ACUERDO CON LAS INDICACIONES DE SU MEDICO .
[ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 40 GRAM TUBE NDC 0168 - 0277 - 40 Fougera ® CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE VAGINAL CREAM USP , 2 % equivalent to 2 % clindamycin Rx only For Intravaginal Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic , Dermal , or Oral Use .
NET WT 40 grams [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ] Package / Label Display Panel PACKAGE LABEL – PRINCIPAL DISPLAY PANEL – 40 GRAM CARTON NDC 0168 - 0277 - 40 Fougera ® CLINDAMYCIN PHOSPHATE VAGINAL CREAM USP , 2 % equivalent to 2 % clindamycin For Intravaginal Use Only .
Not for Ophthalmic , Dermal , or Oral Use .
Rx only NET WT 40 grams with 7 applicators E . FOUGERA & CO .
A division of Fougera Pharmaceuticals Inc .
Melville , New York 11747 [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
