Drug Facts Active Ingredients Antiseptic Swabs Lidocaine Hydrochloride 1 . 0 % Benzalkonium Chloride 0 . 11 % Povidone Iodine swabs : Povidone Iodine 10 % , equal to available Iodine 1 % for antiseptic Purpose Lidocaine Hydrochloride for Pain Relief Benzalkonium Chloride for Antiseptic Povidone Iodine for Antiseptis Uses First aid to help prevent infection , and temporarily reliever pain and itching associated with minor cuts .
scrapes and burn Keep out of reach of children Keeo out of reach of children Directions • Do not use if label seal is broken prior to purchase .
• Hold the swab vertically , with the color ring band tip upwards .
Hold in the center of the stem with one hand and at the color band with the other .
• Bend the tip at the color band to one side until it snaps .
• Apply the product to the affected area .
• Discard swab after use .
Warnings For external use only .
Keep out of eyes .
Non - Sterile .
Discontinue use if irritation occurs .
Do not insert inear canal .
Keep at room temperture .
Avoid direct sunlight .
Do not use .
Swabs if you are sensitive to any product ingredients .
in the eyes .
longer than one week unless directed by a doctor .
Stop use and ask a doctor if you have deep or punchture wounds , or serious burns .
redness , irritation , sweeling or pain continues or increases , infection occurs Other information For adult and children 2 and older : Clean affected area .
Apply 1 to 3 times daily .
May be covered with a bandage .
Children under 2 years of age : Consult a doctor .
Avoid storing at excessive heat .
Inactive Ingredients Antiseptic swab : Dizolidinyl Urea , Methylparaben , Propylparaben , Water Providone Iodine Swab : Glcerin , Water Manufacturer Statement Soft cotton tip swabs individually filled with Antiseptic or Iodine .
Ready to use and convenient to carry for fast , clean , safe first aid .
Patented and manufactured by Swabplus Inc .
Rancho Cucamonga , CA 91730 USA The COLOR RING is copyrighted by Swabplus Inc . © 2007 SWABPLUS INC .
Package and label Image of first aid carton label [ MULTIMEDIA ] [ MULTIMEDIA ]
